prayer - [ Mr Speaker in the Chair ] before we come to question to the Secretary of State for Defence , may I just say this to Minister Heappey : you will be miss and I be sorry you be step down . on a personal level , I thank you for your private briefing to ensure that the House be keep inform . you will be miss and I thank you for that service . oral Answers to Questions Defence the Secretary of State be ask — RFA Sir Galahad what recent assessment he have make of the potential merit of publish all document relate to the bombing of RFA Sir Galahad . I recognise the substantial public and parliamentary interest in this matter . consequently , I recently visit the National Archives at Kew to view the RFA Sir Galahad file . as a result , we be look to release a further two file , subject to the Ministry of Defence ' s legal adviser confirm that individual ' right under the Data Protection Act 2018 would not be contravene . in relation to the five file of witness statement , I want maximum transparency , subject to the Public Records Act 1958 and ensure that personal datum be protect . I shall provide a further update shortly . on Saturday I attend the first remembrance and reunion event for the survivor and family of those who be lose in the attack on the Sir Galahad . I know that the Minister know this — and I thank he for his early response — but it be deeply important that the remain document from the board of inquiry be release , so that we can get to the truth of what happen on 8 June 1982 . he have tell we what he might release , but , for those who have live with this for 42 year , can he tell we when we will have those decision ? I pay tribute to the hon . Lady for the tenacity with which she have pursue this . I have enjoy our meeting to discuss the matter and also the meeting with the Welsh Guards . it be important that this be handle quickly . we be move at pace to ensure that we can do so — with , of course , the caveat that I have just describe . I know people who serve in the Welsh Guards at the time — I be myself in the Scots Guards — and a number who do not come back . I congratulate the hon . member for Newport East ( Jessica Morden ) on her question . my right hon . Friend say that he be move at pace , but the key point be that it be now decade since this happen . there be now no question but that some kind of cover - up take place . when he come to look at those document again , can he please ensure that , on the balance of judgment , we err in favour of opening up so that , for those who have die and those whose reputation have be trash , we can stand up and say proudly that it be not they ? the board of inquiry be quite clear about the attribution of blame , and the Welsh Guards be absolutely exonerated , and that be the Government ' s position . my position be always for transparency , and certainly that have be at the forefront of my mind when I have be look at these document . I , too , be at the event that my hon . friend the Member for Newport East ( Jessica Morden ) attend at the weekend . I be there on behalf of my constituent Colin Silva . many of those who do not come back be from the brave Welsh Guards . I have also visit Fitzroy and see the location for myself . I be able to assure the people of the Falkland Islands of the united support from this House for their defence and security . may I press the Minister on the timing ? be we talk in term of week , month or year , because time be move on and we need these answer quickly . I will not be draw on precise time , but it will not be year . my constituent Oliver Richardson , now the mayor of Deal , be just 21 when he survive the sinking of the Galahad . forty year on , he say that there be no reason for this suppose secrecy and that many people neither be offer , nor want , confidentiality in relation to say what they have see . our armed force serve we all , and we must honour that service by give they and the family of those lose and injure on the Galahad the answer they need . I urge the Minister to release all of the Falklands Galahad paper at pace . the Government will do everything we can in the interest of transparency , but I be sure that my hon . friend appreciate that we , like everybody else , be bind by the Data Protection Act . Indo - Pacific what step his Department be take to help ensure stability in the Indo - Pacific . the UK be commit to a free and open Indo - Pacific , and we be put our regional approach on a long - term strategic footing . I return this weekend from Australia , where we have be talk to our colleague there , work hard on the Indo - Pacific programme . stability in the Indo - Pacific have be largely aid by the military base presence on Diego Garcia . what assessment have the Defence Secretary make of the military base and the island of Diego Garcia remain under full british sovereignty , so that we can help to counter the many threat of the modern world , whether that be China , Iran or other ? as I think my hon . friend know , I share the goal of ensure that the base on Diego Garcia remain permanently available for our use , and for the United States . it be strategically positioned , it be absolutely vital and there be read - across to our military facility elsewhere . it remain safe in our hand . when assess our ability to influence the stability of that region , or any other , have the Secretary of State conduct any kind of impact assessment of the reduction of our investment in international aid from 0 . 7 % of gdp , or the fact that we have the small standing Army in the United Kingdom for 200 year ? the hon . Gentleman will recognise that I look after the Defence budget , rather than the overseas development budget , but I think he will welcome the fact that , because of the Indo - Pacific tilt , we have ship with a permanent presence there — HMS Spey and HMS Tamar — and the littoral response group south , which operate in the Indo - Pacific . we have already send the carrier strike group previously ; it be go to the region again next year . that be in addition to the global combat air programme sixth - generation programme , and of course AUKUS , for which I be in Australia at the weekend . I think we can all agree that we be do a lot more than ever before in the Indo - Pacific . I call the shadow Secretary of State . as you do , Mr Speaker , I pay tribute to the Armed Forces Minister at his last defence question . since the last election , we have have five Chancellors , four Foreign Secretaries , three Prime Ministers and two Defence Secretaries , but only one Armed Forces Minister . he have be a rare constant in the turmoil of Government , totally commit to defence . we thank he for that and wish he well . on the Indo - Pacific , we welcome last week ' s update defence agreement with Australia , further progress on AUKUS , and today ' s 10 - year plan for Barrow to support AUKUS . this be our most important strategic alliance beyond NATO , so why have the Defence Secretary give the leadership of key part of AUKUS to the most junior Minister in his Department ? as I explain , I have just be in Australia talk about AUKUS . I have previously be to Japan , I think at least twice but possibly three time , on AUKUS , and to Italy — sorry , not to Italy , obviously , on AUKUS ; that be on GCAP , but with an Indo - Pacific tilt . I agree with the right hon . Gentleman ' s comment about the Armed Forces Minister , but I be interested to hear his comment on the Indo - Pacific . back in 2021 , when the integrated review suggest a tilt to the Indo - Pacific , he call it a serious flaw in the programme , and urge we not to defocus from elsewhere in the world . support for Veterans what recent step Veterans UK have take to support veteran and their family . what recent step Veterans UK have take to support veteran and their family with the cost of living . what step his Department be take to support veteran . what recent step Veterans UK have take to support veteran and their family with the cost of living . with other Government Departments , the Ministry of Defence deliver a range of service to our brilliant veteran and their family . that include the administration and payment of armed force pension and compensation , the provision of tailor advice and assistance through the veterans welfare service , defence transition service and the integrate personal commissioning for veteran . a new report from Northumbria University find that suicide among serve personnel and veteran could be reduce if there be well understanding within exist care provision of the specific challenge that they face . the report also find that military family feel unheard , misunderstood and not care for during the most difficult period of their life , so what step be the Minister take , alongside our NHS , to deliver compassionate trauma - inform support for serve personnel and veteran ? I be glad that the hon . Lady have raise that issue . she will know that we have a defence suicide prevention strategy , which be review regularly . she will also know that , overall , suicide in the armed force be below what we might expect in the civilian population . there be a sub - group within that — young man — where it look as if the rate be go up . we be look very closely at that to well understand the reason for it and how we can prevent it . my constituent join the Army in 1987 and serve in the Queen ' s Lancashire Regiment until 1994 . during a wrongful operation , he sever all the nerve in his foot . he be now 52 year old and suffer from several condition that leave he in excruciating pain every day . he be on disability living allowance and then move to personal independence payment , but 18 month ago he be tell that he be no long eligible . be that really the way to treat our veteran ? I be very sorry to hear about the hon . Lady ' s constituent . if she would like to write to I with the detail , I will be more than happy to take up that case . as I say in my opening remark , we work with other Departments , and it sound as if this be not principally the responsibility of the MOD , but I would be more than happy to hear from she about her constituent . about a year ago , my hon . friend the Member for Wrexham ( Sarah Atherton ) undertake an important and groundbreaking piece of work on behalf of female veteran and woman in the armed force . follow that , I have the honour of help she to set up the all - party parliamentary group on woman in defence , which have give a platform to female veteran and service personnel , as well as those who work in defence and the charitable sector , to talk to member from across the House at every level . we be very much look forward to the female veteran strategy . can my right hon . friend assure I that the Government remain committed not just to equal treatment for woman in the armed force , but to an equally positive experience for everyone who choose to serve ? I can absolutely give my hon . friend that assurance . I pay tribute to he and to our hon . friend the Member for Wrexham ( Sarah Atherton ) for all their hard work to improve the position of woman in our armed force . woman be absolutely central to the way in which defence will be go in the year ahead , as encapsulate in our target to have our armed force be 30 % female by 2030 — a challenging and ambitious target . I should mention our improvement to unform policy , mentoring , flexible service , wrapround childcare , and of course our zero tolerance for unacceptable sexual behaviour , as example of thing we have do recently to improve the live experience of woman in our armed force . at the last census , just over 17 , 000 veteran be live in Birmingham , 35 % of whom be over the age of 80 . despite pledge to end veteran homelessness , Government figure show that it rise last year by 14 % , and up to 180 veteran household across the UK be make newly homeless each month . can the Minister tell I what he be do to ensure that veteran in Birmingham and across the UK , who make enormous sacrifice for our safety and security , do not end up homeless ? it be plainly not right that anybody should be without a home , be they a veteran or not . we be do everything in our power to ensure that people be set up well for civilian life as they transition out of the armed force . the overwhelming majority of people who leave our armed force be in precisely that position . by use measure such as the defence transition service for those who might have particular problem when they return to civilian life — as all member of the armed force ultimately do — we be ensure that we minimise the number of people who have serve in our armed force and be leave without a home . be the Minister aware of the excellent work of the Battle Back Centre in Lilleshall in my constituency , a successful collaboration between the Royal British Legion and Sport England ? would he , or perhaps the Minister for Veterans ’ Affairs , consider visit the centre soon , give that it have treat more than 6 , 000 serve and ex - service personnel for all sort of injury ? the staff there be fabulous and superb , and they deserve a visit . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for the invitation , which I will most gladly take up . I pay tribute to Battle back , which do a wonderful job , and to he for his work support it . Veteran Roy Sagar , a familiar face to we all in Morley , recently pass away in his mid - 90 . he do so much for veteran and the Royal British Legion locally , and be our parade marshal . will my right hon . friend join I in pay tribute to Roy and all our unsung hero veteran for all they do , and in send thought and prayer to Roy ' s family ? yes , I very much do so . our veteran be a wonderful part of our community and deserve all the support we can give they . I also pay tribute to the Royal British Legion , which be always there for our veteran when they need it — I speak as president of my local branch . the legion be a powerful institution — I know you have have a lot to do with it , Mr Speaker — and an important part of what and who we be , and I pay tribute to it , as well as to my hon . friend ' s late constituent . I call the shadow Minister . I appreciate the Minister ' s early answer , but when Royal British Legion Industries say that 6 , 000 veteran be homeless or in danger of become so , be there a need for more urgent intervention , or be the Minister for Veterans ’ affair right to hail get 500 off the street as a triumph ? I think that get 500 off the street be good — it be certainly a start — but one person without a home be one too many , whether they be a civilian or a veteran . the important thing be that we look at factor that might be peculiar to defence that predispose people to homelessness , because we have a particular duty to those people in accordance with the military covenant . in general , as the hon . Gentleman and I both know , people leave the armed force be much well place for the balance of their life in civilian life than their equivalent in civil society , but that be not the case for everyone . some people fall through the crack , and we must ensure that they be scoop up and look after . Armed Forces Readiness what progress his Department have make on improve the readiness of the armed force . Mr Speaker , thank you very much indeed for your word at the beginning of question . I also thank the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Wentworth and Dearne ( John Healey ) . you be both very kind indeed to say what you say . the UK armed force be meet all of their commitment , but there be no mistaking that they be very busy , as one would expect at such a turbulent geopolitical time . People across the Army , Navy , Air Force and strategic command be work incredibly hard , and we be very grateful to they and their family for their forbearance while they do so . the Government be invest £ 1 . 95 billion extra in our resilience and readiness , but more than investment be need , which be why all three service be get back into the business of be ready for warfighting . the 3rd ( United Kingdom ) Division recently exercise its combat service support echelon for the first time in decade ; the Royal Navy be operate concurrent task group as well as forward presence , a test of our naval logistic ; and the Royal Air Force be refine its ability to disperse the force through its agile combat employment mechanism . of course , we commend the effort of all those in our armed service , but the Defence Committee ' s " ready for War ? " report substantiate that our armed force be constantly overstretch and be be deploy above their capacity . when be the Government go to respond appropriately to the scale of the geopolitical challenge by drive up recruitment and retention and make sure that we can face the challenge that we see ahead of we — that we can take they full - on , and be ready for whatever come our way ? there be no escape the fact that the world be incredibly complicated at the moment . in the Euro - Atlantic , we face the challenge of Russia ; in the middle east , the challenge of Iran and its proxy ; in the Indo - Pacific , the grow competition with China ; and then across Africa and other part of the world there remain the challenge of violent extremism . at a time of such crisis , one would expect the armed force to be as busy as they be . that do not mean that we should take for grant the effort that they be put in , but if we be not reach for they as extensively as we be right now , we would have to question when on earth we would reach for they , give the demand on our nation . I pay tribute to my right hon . and gallant Friend the Minister for Armed Forces — I be very sad to hear that he be go . he talk of warfighting . as he know , I be on the Defence Committee . I would challenge the idea that we be ready to fight a sustained war with the armed force that we have , and bear in mind all the threat that we face , that possibility have become very real . bear in mind that his collective responsibility be about to go , will he now stand at the Dispatch Box and say that we need to spend a lot more money on defence ? that will go soon , but not yet . colleague on both side of the House will note that whenever I have be invite to respond to such a question , like all good Defence Ministers , I have never miss the opportunity to say yes , but the reality be that our armed force remain fit . yes , it be the job of this House and particularly my hon . friend ' s Committee to scrutinise our readiness , as the Committee have do — and I commend the report to colleague who have not already read it — but reinvestment be need to sustain our armed force at warfighting level . that be no scandal ; that be the consequence of a peace dividend that rightly allow successive government to disinvest in the resilience that keep our cold war force credible . however , as the Secretary of State so rightly say in his speech the other week , we be now in a " pre - war era " , so it be the responsibility of this Government and those who follow to reinvest in the necessary warfighting capability . the Minister rightly point to the ability to sustain fighting . he know that an exercise conduct with the Americans show that the british Army would run out of munition within 10 day . battle in Ukraine show very early on that this would be an artillery war . why — I have ask this question of several Ministers , so I hope that he have the answer — do it take from March or April 2022 to July 2023 to place the order for new munition ? we can not afford this sort of delay in the Ministry of Defence . the contract have now be place , and it increase our supply of . 155 significantly . I take issue with the point that the right hon . Gentleman make : I be not aware of the exercise he refer to , but in exercise that I have see , in which the UK have operate alongside the US , again and again the american senior commander have hold the UK force element in the high regard . as I use to do my right hon . friend ' s job , may I join the tribute to the outgoing , outstanding Armed Forces Minister ? the " Ready for War ? " report just reference identify problem with recruitment as one issue that impede our ability to fight . the Defence Secretary himself have call our recruitment system " ludicrous " , and he tell the Times early this month that " the ' Amazon ' generation , which be use to get thing instantly , be not prepared to wait a year to join the army . " he be absolutely right , so when will the utterly ludicrous " Crapita " finally be sack ? I be unable to answer my right hon . friend ' s specific question , but he will be hearten to hear that as a consequence of all that be go on in the world , and the geopolitical uncertainty that require we to use our armed force so extensively , in recent month we have enjoy record expression of interest in join his Majesty ' s armed force . obviously , we need to make sure that the time between express an interest and start training be as short as possible ; all colleague on the Front Bench perceive the need for that . Defence Jobs what step his Department be take to support defence job . what step his Department be take to support defence job . the most recent estimate show that the Ministry of Defence support about 209 , 000 job in industry across the UK . I be pleased to say that this figure will be boost far by the confirmation last week that BAE Systems will partner with a firm in Australia to build its nuclear - power submarine . that will support 7 , 000 additional british job across the programme ' s lifetime . would my hon . friend agree that MOD procurement from small british company in rural area such as North Devon can significantly increase defence - relate job there , and enhance the local economy , especially when those job be in high - wage research and development and manufacturing industry ? will he commit to ensure that the additional high - skilled job and economic benefit result from contract be consider in future procurement decision ? that be an excellent point from my hon . friend , who be a champion of defence small and medium - sized enterprise in her constituency . as to procurement rule support sme such as those in North Devon , our new integrate procurement model will ensure that UK industrial capability and exportability consideration be include in procurement evaluation criterion for item such as the new medium helicopter . however , to ensure that we absolutely maximise opportunity for british industry , on Friday , I announce that we will undertake a rapid review of how Cabinet Office social value rule impact on the development of sovereign capability . the Minister will be aware of the successful export order for high - value naval electric propulsion technology manufacture by GE in my Rugby constituency . that order be go to Singapore , and it be achieve with the assistance of the MOD and the Department for Business and Trade . do that not show that support for this world - lead british technology enable new business in a fast - develop part of the world , while provide significant , new , high - value job for my constituent ? my hon . Friend ask an excellent question . I welcome the valuable contribution of GE in his constituency in supply high - tech motor , include for Royal Navy ship , such as Type 26 frigate and Queen Elizabeth - class aircraft carrier . it be precisely because the Ministry of Defence recognise the importance of GE ' s Rugby facility that we be pleased to reach an agreement with the company in 2019 to ensure that those motor continue to be manufacture there . finally , he be right about export . it be such a key part of our new integrate procurement model , because it boost industrial resilience and prosperity in constituency such as his , while strengthen international alliance , such as , in this case , with the people of Singapore and the Singapore navy . the Secretary of State will know that Huddersfield be a centre for defence industry ; we have David Brown Gears and Reliance Precision , for example . I talk to they regularly . they say to I that one of the thing that they miss be train personnel . the Army , Navy and Air Force use to be the big trainer of personnel in the country . the diminished level of training in the armed service be reflect in the sector , which can not get enough highly train people to employ . I be aware of those company , which do an excellent job support the supply chain , particularly for our prime and for key programme , especially naval programme . I do not recognise the hon . Gentleman ' s description of training . as he will be aware , defence be the big employer of apprentice in the country . we be do everything we can to support that . the key be to have a close relationship with industry , and to bring it into our requirement early on , so that it can plan and deliver the supply signal , particularly for skill , to match our demand signal . I would like to build on the incisive question ask by the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) . More than 125 , 000 applicant to the British Army be reject in the past five year . it have emerge that 70 % of applicant be drop or withdraw at the paperwork stage . More than 8 , 000 withdraw their application , have wait for at least six month . what consequence will Capita face for this record , and when might the Army bring soldier and officer recruitment back in house ? I encourage the hon . gentleman to direct question about recruitment to the Minister for Defence People and Families . as to the company the hon . Gentleman talk about , my focus be on industry and support job , which the original question be about . I think we have a fantastic record , boost by not only the export I refer to early , but the one that my hon . friend the Member for Rugby ( Mark Pawsey ) be talk about . I call the shadow Minister . defence procurement can strengthen UK sovereignty , security and economic growth . we on the Opposition Benches believe that defence investment should be direct first to UK business , so that we make , buy and sell more in Britain . with that in mind , what step be the Minister take in his rapid review to ensure that social value consideration properly take into account the huge advantage to the UK economy of award more contract to british business , so that we create more defence job here in the UK ? that do not seem to happen at present . I think there be considerable consensus , because I agree with the right hon . Lady about the importance of sovereign defence capability , and not just because of the economic benefit , although those be crucial . as we enter this era , which have be describe as pre - war , it be vital that we have a UK sovereign industrial base . as the Ukrainians have learn , there be certain skill and capability that we will need in country , should we get to a hotter military situation , and that be why that be such a priority for we . Armed Forces Personnel what step he be take to end the hollowing out of the armed force . I refer the hon . gentleman to much that I say in response to the readiness question early , but the key point on this issue of enablement be that it be the unglamorous stuff that need to be invest in first . there be no point buy more tank until we have more tank transporter . the Government be seize of that , and be do exactly that . this be an opportunity to place on record , in addition to my gratitude to the armed force , which I have mention , that ten of thousand of hard - work MOD civil servant in the MOD main building and around the wide enterprise be hard at work on this problem right now , and I be grateful to they for their effort . like other colleague , I thank the Minister for his year of service . since 2010 , the size of our armed force have decrease by over 43 , 000 personnel ; the number of Royal Navy warship have decrease by a fifth ; more than 200 aircraft have be remove from service in just the last five year ; and recruitment target be be miss year on year . which of those legacy of 14 year of Conservative Government be the Minister most proud of ? what action could he undertake to do well ? the thing that I be most proud of , beyond the exceptional operational output of his Majesty ' s armed force every time they be call on , be that the Government have increase the defence budget to more than £ 50 billion a year for the first time . the hon . Gentleman , whose interest in defence be very welcome indeed , should be enormously concerned about the shadow Chancellor ' s repeat refusal to commit to anything more than the 2 % NATO floor for defence spending . if his concern for defence be to last , he should immediately be concern about the fact that unless his party change policy urgently , it will equal a £ 7 billion cut in defence spending on day one of a Labour Government . the question of whether our armed force be fit for purpose should centre on whether they can carry out the defence task set by the MOD , and I believe that they can . if I may carry on in the same vein as the previous response , do the Minister agree that Labour ' s failure to commit to spend more than 2 % of gdp on defence present a much big risk to UK security than any objective debate on this side of the House ? absolutely . we should urgently achieve 2 . 5 % of gdp ; the fiscal situation be improve , and the conservative party have make that commitment . as the Secretary of State rightly say in an interview the other day , both main party should strongly consider a further increase in defence spending in the next Parliament . I call the shadow Minister . as the former Defence Secretary , the right hon . member for Wyre and Preston North ( Mr Wallace ) , tell the House last January , the Government have " hollow out and underfunde " the UK military over the last 14 year . that be in large part due to their total failure on armed force recruitment , and damn new figure show that over the last decade , 800 , 000 people who be willing to serve and defend their country simply give up and withdraw their application . the current Defence Secretary say that the recruitment system be " ludicrous " , and the organisation run it get call the wrong name by the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) , but where be the plan to fix this ? it be not work . the right hon . Lady be conflate two separate issue . the former Secretary of State for Defence and I , and everybody else who have serve on the Government Front Bench since we have return to the prospect of state - on - state war , have refer to a hollowing out of the force . that be a consequence of decision make not just by this government , but by government since the fall of the Berlin wall , because the force that we maintain for the cold war and all its enablement be not necessary when we be fight counter - insurgency campaign in Iraq and Afghanistan . that be what be mean by hollow out . the soon the right hon . Lady start to deal with that issue , rather than conflate it with other to make political point , the soon she will start to contribute to an important debate . as far as recruitment go , record interest have be show in join our nation ' s armed force , and there be no hiding from the fact that we need to rapidly accelerate the time between express an interest and be in training . can we accelerate the question , too ? Cyprus : Sovereign Base Areas what assessment he have make of the security of the sovereign base area and the armed force in Cyprus . the UK continually assess potential threat to our overseas territory , include the sovereign base area on the island of Cyprus . British Forces Cyprus provide a permanent military presence , and we be invest in the sba to combat current and future threat , in order to ensure local , regional and global security . I thank the Minister for his response . the Secretary of State have say : " we want to do everything possible to ensure the security of Cyprus " . do the Minister agree that it would be appropriate to keep the Cypriot Government inform of all UK military operation conduct from their island ? should not that be an official obligation , for the security of Cyprus ? the sba be sovereign basis , so of course we reserve the right to operate from they as need , base on the UK national interest . the hon . Gentleman will be reassure to hear that the Secretary of State , his predecessor , other Ministers in the MOD and I have very good relation with the Cypriots , and we seek to tell they as much as we can about operation that we mount from sba there . I would like to add to the warm word say about my right hon . friend . he have be particularly supportive of the all - party parliamentary group for the armed force , and the armed force parliamentary scheme , both of which I chair . do he agree that the sovereign base area in Cyprus have a particularly important role to play in our activity in the Red sea ? Cyprus be in an incredibly important strategic location , which mean that it be of great use to our operation in the southern Red sea , as well as in the eastern Mediterranean , the western Balkans , central Asia and beyond . it be a vital mountain base for so much that the UK armed force do . we be incredibly fortunate to have that facility . Gaza : humanitarian aid what step his Department be take to assist in the provision of humanitarian aid to Gaza . what step his Department be take to assist in the provision of humanitarian aid to Gaza . what step he be take with the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs to increase the number of aid shipment to the middle east . there be a desperate need for increase humanitarian support to Gaza . the UK , include the Ministry of Defence , be work collectively with ally , partner and international organisation to deliver desperately need aid to the Gazan population . my constituent be rightly proud of the work that our armed force be do to facilitate the delivery of aid , to prevent a colossal humanitarian catastrophe . what further step can be take to ensure that british aid find its way to civilian in need , rather than into the hand of Hamas fighter ? that be one of the great challenge in the current situation . we be work with the British Red Cross , UNICEF , the UN World Food Programme , the Egyptian Red Crescent and other to ensure that aid get to the right place . that be extremely challenging , and have slow down aid delivery . the israeli Government have say that they want to " flood " Gaza with aid . will my right hon . Friend assure the House that we will work with our partner globally to get more aid into the hand of civilian in Gaza , and will assist the Israelis to deliver on that pledge as soon as possible ? I inform my hon . friend that we have already deliver 74 tonne of humanitarian aid via the RAF , and 87 tonne through the Royal Fleet Auxiliary . in addition , we be pursue land , air and maritime route . with half of Gaza already starve and the rest teeter on the edge of famine , and the UN Security Council voting for an immediate ceasefire in Gaza , access to humanitarian aid be crucial . this month , the Foreign Secretary state that the UK would support the building of a temporary pier in Gaza to allow hundred of extra daily truckload of aid into the strip . will the Secretary of State outline what step he be take , along with the Foreign Secretary , to ensure that the pier be construct as quickly as possible ? the hon . Lady will be pleased to hear that I have send team both to Tampa to work with US Central Command and to the region to help with planning and construct that pier . in addition , right at the beginning of the conflict , I ensure that we do hydrographic research , to aid in exactly this kind of situation , when the condition be right to get a pier build . this be not a trivial endeavour , but we be work to deliver the pier as quickly as possible ; there be the potential to get 2 . 5 million meal a day to Gaza . the UK Government ' s ability to deliver humanitarian aid depend on the UK ' s relationship with its middle eastern partner . what impact do the Secretary of State think that recent event and UK Government foreign policy decision have have on that crucial relationship with those middle eastern partner ? the hon . Lady will be pleased to hear that the Foreign Secretary , the Prime Minister and I have be very proactive in speak to and make multiple visit to the region . I have visit the majority of country in the middle east and Gulf region to discuss exactly the point that she have raise . there be now a large - scale programme of use a pier to get food in , in addition to the many other effort make . as my hon . friend the Member for Colchester ( Will Quince ) point out , the issue be not just get the aid there , but then distribute it ; that be a great concern . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . when will the Government make a further public determination on Israel ' s commitment to international humanitarian law , give the man - make famine unfold in northern Gaza , which be compound by israeli move to obstruct access to aid ? if the UK find , as the UN Secretary - General , Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International do , that the israeli Government and the Israel Defence Forces have violate international law , what step will the UK Government take to prohibit further arm sale to Israel , pende a resolution of the situation ? give that the Security Council have just call for a ceasefire , what step will the Government take through the defence sector to accelerate all available aid for civilian in Gaza ? it be a pity to ask all those question without reference the 100 - plus hostage who be still be hold by Hamas , who brutally slaughter the population deliberately rather than as a by - product of war . the hon . Gentleman ask a number of question . I can tell he that on arm export to Israel , an issue for which I be responsible , it be , to put it in proportion — I think , from the top of my head — just £ 48 million for the past year . the number be actually very small indeed . he will know that his latter question be one for the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office . Defence Procurement what recent assessment he have make of the effectiveness of the defence procurement system . what recent assessment he have make of the effectiveness of the defence procurement system . what recent assessment he have make of the effectiveness of the defence procurement system . the Department use a range of measure to assess the effectiveness of defence acquisition . we have reduce the average time take to deliver our project and programme , but we must go far to drive pace , so last month I announce our new integrate procurement model . the National Audit Office have previously highlight MOD pilot training procurement failure , so be the RAF now meet its pilot training quota ? be the Minister satisfied with progress in that key area ? the hon . Gentleman ask a very important question . of course , training be fundamental to bring in the next generation to man our capability . I recently have the pleasure of visit RAF Valley , where I discuss the issue with the RAF . it be able to confirm to I that , for the first time in a long time , there be more student take up their place rather than in hold . that be a key metric in which we be see significant progress , but yes we want to go far . last March , the Government say that they would have their ajax scheme ready between October 2028 and September 2029 . give that only 25 % of armoured vehicle have be produce , be the Government on target to meet that deadline ? yes . notwithstanding the waste of £ 5 billion in procurement since 2019 , will the Minister join the shadow Secretary of State for Defence , my right hon . friend the Member for Wentworth and Dearne ( John Healey ) in a campaign to make in Britain , ensure our industry and economy move together to support not just our defence , but our economy ? how will he achieve that give that Tata Steel — to which we have pay £ 500 million — be cut down its blast furnace capacity ? how will we be able to proceed with the AUKUS contract and other contract without virgin steel ? on the important question of steel , we do not expect the closure of Port Talbot to have a significant impact on defence , but obviously we will continue to monitor that situation . I would just gently point out that in 2022 - 23 , the last year for which we have figure available , 89 % of spend by the MOD with industry be with british industry . it will be an awful lot hard to make that level of spend if Labour be unable to commit to match our spending commitment . if the hon . Gentleman be so concerned , perhaps he will join other colleague on the Labour Benches in insist that the shadow Secretary of State confirm whether he will match 2 . 3 % of GDP now and our target of 2 . 5 % as soon as the economy support it . may I take this opportunity to also place on record my thank to the Minister for Armed Forces , my right hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Wells ( James Heappey ) for all the work he have do ? it be a joy to work with he when I be in the Department . I thank the Minister for Defence Procurement for his procurement review . it be an excellent document , move forward in a pragmatic way . as part of that review , will he reassess where potential gap might occur between old platform be retire and new platform be delay ? do he agree that housing procurement — accommodation for our armed force — be as much an operational capability as a tank ? my right hon . friend make an excellent point . he make a similar point in the debate on readiness last week about the importance of accommodation . I think we can all agree that there be a tendency in defence to focus on the big shiny platform . Accommodation be a key priority ; we be very committed to improve accommodation . we know that in the winter before this one performance be not satisfactory . that be why we put in extra investment of £ 400 million and announce a winter plan . I be pleased to say that we have make huge progress , for example in ensure that thousand of property have work achieve on damp and mould . I be delighted that the MOD have confirm the procurement of additional Chinooks , give that RAF Odiham , in my constituency , be the home of the Chinook force . however , it be also home to the fleet ' s frontline maintenance , second line engine repair , and in - depth upgrade and modification . give that 85 % of the Chinook fleet sustainment take place in the UK today , can I have my hon . friend ' s assurance that RAF Odiham will remain the home of the Chinook , and that there will be a similar , if not high , level of maintenance of the new variant here and across Britain ? I greatly enjoy my visit to Odiham , where my hon . friend and I discuss a wide variety of issue . he be right to draw attention to our commitment to the procurement of 14 extend - range chinook — they have a huge range , of 1 , 000 mile — but there be also the industrial benefit to the UK and , of course , to my hon . friend ' s constituency . I can confirm that not only have that procurement make we a £ 300 million saving , but it will contribute £ 150 million - worth of benefit to the UK ' s prosperity . will my hon . friend update the House on progress make with UK - Ukraine defence manufacturing co - operation , especially with regard to remove the hurdle ? be there anything more that the Government should be do ? my hon . friend have champion this matter consistently . I be pleased to say that we hold the first UK trade mission in December , and that there will be further such mission . I can confirm most importantly that , follow that mission , UK defence company and the Ukrainian Government have sign the follow agreement . Babcock have be be award a three - year contract by the Ukraine ministry of defence to support and maintain two mine countermeasure vessel ; BAE Systems and AMS Integrated Solutions have sign an agreement that will enable they to offer specialised artillery system support directly to the ukrainian armed force ; and Thales have sign a memorandum of understanding with the ukrainian drone company AeroDrone , which will bring together the good of ukrainian and Northern Irish engineering to deliver new capability to Ukraine ' s force . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . procurement of the new medium - lift helicopter have be characteristically suboptimal under the present Government , but this particular Defence Procurement Minister have manage , with his inverse Midas touch , to ensure that cost have grow from about £ 1 billion to £ 1 . 3 billion , delivery forecast have slip six delay year to 2031 , and the number of asset to be receive have fall from 44 to 35 . give that the forecast will inevitably slip to the right , service personnel will be under - resource and the budget will almost certainly grow , what possible confidence can anyone have in this Defence Procurement Minister ? I will take no lecture from the hon . Gentleman , whose party have be unable even to procure a ferry . [ hon . member : " it say here ! " ] I know the subject , and I can confirm to he , because I be very proud of this , that at my insistence our competition for the new medium helicopter will involve a far great emphasis both on support UK industry and on support export . it be by support export that we secure industrial resilience and support for prosperity across the United Kingdom . of course it be a competition , but we have three very good entrant . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . like other in the House , I pay tribute to the Minister for Armed Forces , my right hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Wells ( James Heappey ) — soldier , MP , and Minister during almost the entire Parliament . his knowledge of this subject be match only by his great passion for it , and we be all very grateful for his service . last week I be in Australia , sign an historic defence treaty to enhance our Indo - Pacific security , and meanwhile our trilateral AUKUS partnership with the United States be accelerate . as the House will know , ASC and BAE Systems have a multibillion - pound contract for the SSN - AUKUS . early today the Prime Minister and I launch our very first nuclear defence Command Paper , which will set out the true benefit of this great enterprise , make it a wholly national effort . I welcome the publication of the Command Paper , and in particular the important role play by Rolls - Royce in Derby , but do my right hon . friend agree that for this to be a truly national enterprise , there must be a truly national supply chain and access to job for people throughout the country ? my hon . friend be right about the extent of the supply chain . in addition to the very large investment in Rolls - Royce , to which the Australians contribute £ 2 . 4 billion last week , and all the work in Barrow that be describe in the Command Paper , there be benefit for virtually every constituency in the country . I call the shadow Secretary of State . we condemn the deadly terrorist attack in Moscow on Friday , and our thought be with all those affect , but the attack must not become a Kremlin cover for Putin ' s illegal war in Ukraine . in recent day , we have see multiple russian strike on ukrainian city , yet the last UK air defence support be announce last year . when be the next one ? I join the right hon . gentleman in send our condolence follow the horrific terror attack . he be absolutely right to say that we be aware of no connection whatsoever with Ukraine ; indeed , ISIS have claim responsibility . we must resist Putin ' s effort to try to link the two . with regard to air defence , there have be much more recent attempt to aid our ukrainian friend , include through the International Fund for Ukraine , which have lay 27 contract . we have a £ 900 million fund , run by the UK on behalf of a large number of other country . of course , anything more recent be from the International Fund for Ukraine , not the UK , which be why we strongly welcome the £ 2 . 5 billion of UK military support for 2024 . however , for nearly three month since that announcement , Ministers have say that the first delivery to Ukraine will not happen until Q1 of the new financial year . war do not follow financial year , so when will the UK move beyond this stop - start military aid and help Ukraine with the spring / summer offensive ? I can tell the right hon . Gentleman that we have a constant flow of foreign materiel that we be buy and send into Ukraine . I recently announce £ 325 million for british - ukrainian drone , and we have increase the overall amount of money go to Ukraine from the previous two year ' £ 2 . 3 billion to £ 2 . 5 billion . I gently say to the right hon . Gentleman — this have be raise by a couple of my colleague today — that he need to explain how the opposition would manage an increase budget for Ukraine , when their plan be to cut £ 7 billion from the overall defence budget . an Army non - serve partner say of her child ' s mental health treatment : " when you move , they close the case , and then you have to go all the way back through the system , which take forever . by the time you get in , you be move again . " can my right hon . friend please give the House an update on recommendation 74 , 75 and 76 of the " live in our shoe " report , which deal with this issue ? I be grateful to my hon . friend and , as ever , pay tribute to he for the work he have do in this area . it be the case that when people move around the country , they be disadvantaged . we recognise that , which be why integrate care board be now run a pilot scheme on how we can get around people lose their place on waiting list when they travel around the country . obviously , the issue involve other Government Departments too . nevertheless , we have a responsibility , which we discharge in a number of way . for example , headfit be be adapt and adopt at the moment to ensure that our veteran and service family be able to access much of its content . the Government have previously refuse to confirm or deny whether Israeli F - 35s have be use RAF airbase or , indeed , other military co - operation between the UK and Israel . give the decision of the International Court of Justice , and now the decision of the UN Security Council to call for an immediate ceasefire , what be the operational or policy reason that deny UK citizen the right to know whether their Government have be complicit in israeli genocide in Gaza ? we do not comment on operational matter of that sort . Qatar host Hamas ' s most senior leader in Doha , and should have be apply far more pressure on the terror group to release the israeli hostage and to surrender . do my right hon . friend agree that Qatar ' s malign activity bolster our adversary and therefore weaken our own defence ? I be not entirely sure that I do agree . I will leave the Foreign Office to talk about the diplomatic angle that it be pursue , but in my experience , Qatar have be an incredibly helpful partner across a whole load of thing over the past few year . we enjoy the opportunity to strengthen that partnership , both through the sale of UK - build defence capability and through increasingly operate together in area of mutual concern . it be a relationship on which the UK can build far , and have great potential . HMS Albion be twin with Chester , and we deeply value the ship and her company . can the Secretary of State provide the next date on which HMS Albion and HMS Bulwark will be at sea , or will he just admit that he have mothball they both ? the hon . Lady be pleased to know that I be on HMS Albion the other week and that she have not be mothball . the other ship will be the first to sail — I do not know the timing , as that will depend on operational requirement — but they be both continue in operation . like many colleague across the House , I attend the all - party parliamentary group for UK - Israel and Friends of Israel event . we be join by two release hostage and a delegation consist of young sibling , son , daughter , grandchild and cousin of those be hold hostage in Gaza . it be now five month since the hostage be take , so will the Secretary of State ensure that those victim remain right at the front of his mind in all decision that be take on the middle east ? my hon . friend can absolutely have that assurance . it be shocking to see what be happen in the region , but it be too often forget — include in this House today by some Opposition Members — that this all begin with the taking of those hostage . we will never forget . pension justice be on everybody ' s lip just now , so can the Minister tell I what this Government have do to support the 30 , 000 veteran who leave service before 1975 and who have lose out on preserve pension ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his question . as he know very well , consecutive government have make it plain that we do not make change to pension retrospectively . as for pension for the armed force overall , Mr Speaker , you will know , as I do as a beneficiary , that they be equitable , fair and generous . the 2016 well defence estate plan earmark Fort Blockhouse in Gosport for disposal , yet eight year later after numerous delay , the site be still rot at the taxpayer ' s expense . it be do nothing for the local economy , the local community or the MOD . will the Minister please update I on when can we will finally see some progress on that site ? I enjoy my visit to my hon . friend ' s constituency , where we look at a range of infrastructure and accommodation . I appreciate that she want to see progress , but I stress that while we be engage as closely as possible with Gosport Council on this and want to make progress , it be a complex site with significant defence event asset still in place relate to the Defence Infrastructure Organisation and the Royal Navy . I be committed to look at what more we can do and to engage far with she . ten of thousand of pregnant woman in Gaza be suffer from malnutrition and be at serious risk of deliver their baby unsafely and without healthcare . will the Secretary of State outline what step he be take , along with the Foreign Secretary , to support the delivery of food and medical supply to those particularly vulnerable woman ? we be work to try to bring supply to all the citizen of Gaza . I do not run through the list of provision , but it do include provision for those in medical need , particularly woman who may be pregnant . as I mention , we be work on plan with the Americans in particular , but also with the Jordanians , to provide vastly great amount of aid into Gaza . the terrible terrorist attack in Moscow remind we that jihadi extremism have not disappear . give its ideology , its reach and its strength , do the Secretary of State agree that isis - K be just as much of a threat to the west as it be to Russia ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . there be a perception that Daesh have go away . the Daesh core be coope up in prison in northern Syria , but Daesh affiliate be grow alarmingly quickly in other part of the world . the attack in Moscow be a reminder to we all that we must continue to focus on the counter - terror threat as well as on the state threat . may I wish the Minister for the Armed Forces all the very good for his next posting ? he will recall that on 1 February he make a commitment to reassess the afghan relocation and assistance policy eligibility , specifically for former member of the triple , and say that the process would take 12 week . will he update the House on what progress have be make on that work to date ? it be disappointing to finish on a down note , but as the hon . Gentleman know from a write answer that I give he last week , it have take long than I want to establish an independent group of new casework assessor , and that 12 week period have therefore not yet begin . I be tell by official , when I reluctantly sign off the answer to he last week , that that process be nigh - on complete and that the 12 - week period should therefore start imminently . he will not be surprised to learn that , pre - empte his question , I have encourage they by suggest that eight week would sound an awful lot well than 12 , give the delay in get start . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . at Defence question on 8 January , I ask the Defence Procurement Minister a very straightforward question about HMS Argyll — the type of question to which I would expect he to have an answer at his fingertip . instead he say , as quickly and as curtly as he could , that he would write to I with an answer . it be almost three month later , and I regret to inform you and the House that I have receive no such information from the Defence Procurement Minister , and neither have I receive an acknowledgment that he intend to write to I . may I ask your advice , Mr Speaker ? when right hon . and hon . member have a slippery Minister on the hook and that Minister choose to wriggle off it by promise to write , what recourse do we have when the Minister do not write ? first , I think we ought to choose our language when we want a response . I have a lot sympathy and , although the point of order do not relate to this Question Time , I will give you the benefit of the doubt because this be an important matter . as you be a senior Member of the SNP and have be its spokesperson , I expect you to get timely reply . I do not expect reply to take so long . I be sure that those on the Treasury Bench have hear , and I would expect a response to be send rather quickly follow this point of order . cyber - security and UK Democracy with permission , I will make a statement about malicious cyber - activity target the United Kingdom by actor that we assess be affiliate to the chinese state . I want to update the House on our assessment of this activity and to reassure it on the step that the Government have take to shore up our resilience and hold those actor to account . I know that right hon . and hon . member on both side of the Chamber will recognise the seriousness of this issue , particularly in a year when so many democratic election will be take place around the world . member will want to be reassure that the Government be take step to address the associate threat . I can confirm today that chinese state - affiliate actor be responsible for two malicious cyber - campaign target both our democratic institution and parliamentarian by , first , compromise the United Kingdom ' s Electoral Commission between 2021 and 2022 , as be announce last summer , and secondly , by attempt reconnaissance activity against UK parliamentary account in a separate campaign in 2021 . later today , a number of our international partner , include the United States , will issue similar statement to expose this activity and to hold China to account for the ongoing pattern of hostile activity target our collective democracy . Mr Speaker , you and parliamentary security have already be brief on this activity . we want now to be as open as possible with the House and with the british public , because part of our defence be in call out this behaviour . this be the late in a clear pattern of hostile activity originate in China , include the targeting of democratic institution and parliamentarian in the United Kingdom and beyond . we have see this in China ' s continued disregard for universal human right and international commitment in Xinjiang , in China ' s erasure of dissent voice and stifle of the opposition under the new national security law in Hong Kong , and in the disturbing report of chinese intimidation and aggressive behaviour in the South China sea . that be why this Government have investigate and call out so - call chinese overseas police service station and instruct the chinese embassy to close they . however , China ' s cumulative attempt to interfere with the UK ' s democracy have not succeed . last summer , the Electoral Commission state that it have be a victim of a complex cyber - attack between 2021 and 2022 . that be the work of chinese state - affiliate actor who gain access to the Electoral Commission ' s email and file - share system , which contain copy of the electoral register . as the Electoral Commission state in 2023 , when that attack be first make public , the compromise have " not affect " the security of election . it will not impact how people register , vote or otherwise participate in democratic process . I want to reassure people that the compromise of that information , although obviously concern , typically do not create a risk to those affect . I want to far reassure the House that the commission have work with security specialist to investigate the incident and remove the threat from its system , and have since take further step to increase the resilience of its system . in addition , the National Cyber Security Centre assess that it be almost certain that the chinese state - affiliate cyber - actor know as APT31 attempt to conduct reconnaissance activity against UK parliamentary account during a separate campaign in 2021 . hon . member may recall that APT31 be one of several cyber - actor attribute to the Chinese Ministry of State Security by the UK and its ally in July 2021 . that email campaign by APT31 be block by Parliament ' s cyber - security measure ; in this case , it be entirely unsuccessful . however , any targeting of member of this House by foreign state actor be completely unacceptable . take together , the UK judge that those action demonstrate a clear and persistent pattern of behaviour that signal hostile intent from China . that be why the UK have today sanction two individual and one entity associate with the chinese state - affiliate APT31 group for involvement in malicious cyber - activity target official , Government entity and parliamentarian around the world . we be today act to warn of the breadth of target emanating from chinese state - affiliate actor such as APT31 , to sanction those actor who attempt to threaten our democratic institution , and to deter both China and all those who seek to do the same . last week , at the summit for democracy in Seoul , I say that we would call out malicious attempt to undermine our democracy wherever we find they . this be an important tool in our armoury and today we be do just that . the UK do not accept that China ' s relationship with the UK be set on a predetermined course , but that depend on the choice China make . that be why the Foreign Office will be summon the chinese ambassador to account for China ' s conduct in these incident . the UK ' s policy towards China be anchor in our core national interest . we will engage with the Chinese Government where it be consistent with those interest , but we will not hesitate to take swift and robust action wherever the chinese Government threaten the UK ' s interest — we have do so today and previously . this government will continue to hold China and other state actor accountable for their action . we will also take serious action to prevent this behaviour from affect our security . the step we have take in recent year have make the UK a hard operating environment for foreign state actor seek to target our value and our institution . through the National Security Act 2023 , we now have , for the first time , a specific offence of foreign interference . that new offence will allow law enforcement to disrupt state - link effort to undermine our institution , right or political system . our National Security and Investment Act 2021 have overhaul our scrutiny of investment into the United Kingdom by give the Government power to block , unwind or put condition on investment that could create national security risk . we have significantly reduce China ' s involvement in the UK ' s civil nuclear sector , take ownership of the CGN stake in the Sizewell C nuclear power project and ensure chinese state - own nuclear energy corporation will have no further role in the project . we have put in place measure to prevent hostile infiltration of our university , include protect campus from interference through the Higher Education ( Freedom of Speech ) Act 2023 . the Procurement Act 2023 include national security devolvement provision that allow we to act where we see malicious influence in our public procurement . I have take step to reduce the Government ' s exposure to chinese operator , ban Hikvision and TikTok from Government building and device . through the national cyber - security strategy , we be invest £ 2 . 6 billion to increase the cyber - resilience of our critical national infrastructure by 2025 , make the most important part of our digital environment a hard target for state and non - state actor . the Government be continue to build the tool , expertise and knowledge to respond to the systemic challenge that China pose to the United Kingdom ' s security and its value . the integrated review refresh in 2023 take step toward this , double funding for a government - wide programme , include investment in Mandarin language training and deepen diplomatic expertise . we must be clear that this be not a problem for the Government to solve alone . that be why we create the National Protective Security Authority within MI5 to help business and institution play their part in protect our security and prosperity . the NPSA will help organisation in the UK ' s most sensitive field , include critical national infrastructure operator and world - lead science and tech sector , to protect themselves against state threat . I set up the economic security public - private forum to ensure business and business leader in crucial sector understand the threat to the UK and what they can do to defeat it . in Parliament , the National Cyber Security Centre have launch an opt - in service for member of both Houses . this allow the NCSC to alert high - risk individual if they identify evidence of malicious activity on their personal device or account , and swiftly advise they on step to take to protect their information . today , the NCSC have publish new guidance for political organisation , include political party and think - tank , which will help these organisation take effective action to protect their system and their datum . the NCSC be also work with all political party to increase the uptake of their active cyber - defence service in the lead up to a general election . a key component of increase our resilience be support the NCSC and parliamentary authority by take up that cyber - security offer . I urge all member of this House to do so . I will be write to colleague later today , set out again the step that they can take . at the summit for democracy , I be strike by the powerful strength of our collective voice when we work together to defend our democratic freedom . the summit provide the United Kingdom Government with a platform to build international agreement on a new global Government compact on counter deceptive use of AI by foreign state in election . it be important and welcome that our partner across the five Eyes , as well as those in Europe and the Indo - Pacific , be stand in solidarity with our effort to call out malicious cyber - activity . I pay tribute to the dedicated public servant , whose painstaking work have continue to expose the reality of the threat we face . our political process and institution have not be harm by these attack . the Government will continue to call out and condemn this kind of activity in the strong term . we will continue to work with our ally to ensure that chinese state - affiliate actor suffer the consequence of their behaviour . we will take preventive action to ensure these attempt do not succeed . the cyber - threat pose by China - affiliate actor be real and serious , but it be more than equalled by our determination and resolve to resist it . that be how we defend ourselves and our precious democracy , and I commend this statement to the House . rise — order . this be an important statement , which be why it have run on quite a lot long than the normal 10 minute . I be sure everybody will agree that if the two Front - Bench speaker need a little extra time , we will be flexible in exactly the same way . I call the shadow Secretary of State , Pat McFadden . I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for his statement , and for advance sight of it . it be a statement about which there have be significant briefing in the press over the past couple of day . on question of national security , Labour will support the Government in effort to counter attempt by China , or any other state , to interfere with or undermine the democratic process , or attempt to stop elect representative go about their business , voice their opinion , or cast their vote without fear or favour . with that in mind , I pay tribute to the effort make every day by the intelligence and security service to protect the public , and to protect our democracy and way of life . the economic relationship between the United Kingdom and China can never mean compromise on national security or our democratic integrity . the Deputy Prime Minister ' s statement touch on a number of issue , and I have some question about they . will he say more about the Government ' s assessment of chinese motive ? do he believe , for example , that Beijing want to disrupt our democratic process , or instead to gather datum about our citizen for some other reason ? on the specific issue of the Electoral Commission and the electoral register , why do he think that the chinese Government hack what be a publicly available database ? do he believe they be after the detail of those who may not be on a public register for good reason , for example because they might be employ in security - sensitive area ? do he believe they be after detail and the personal datum of political donor , or be there some other motive ? the Deputy Prime Minister refer to the democratic electoral process , and with an election come it be vital that people have confidence in their ability to register and to vote . will he confirm that our electronic register to vote system be sufficiently well protect ? he say that the attack on parliamentary account be unsuccessful . do he believe that China now want to engage in the kind of hack and leak activity that we have in recent year associate with Russia , in order to compromise either individual politician or the wide democratic process ? on sanction , only last week the Minister of State be reluctant to respond to the claim that the Foreign Office " indefinitely pause " target sanction against chinese official late last year . will the Deputy Prime Minister explain what have change in the past week ? we be grateful for the work of the Intelligence and Security Committee of Parliament , and the report it issue on China last year , which cover much of the same ground that the Deputy Prime Minister cover in his statement . when discuss individual politician , paragraph 98 of that report state : " target be not necessarily limit to serve politician either . they can include former political figure , if they be sufficiently high profile . for example , it be possible that David Cameron ' s role as Vice President of a £ 1bn China – UK investment fund … be in some part engineer by the chinese state to lend credibility to chinese investment , " . what have the Government do to look into that allegation from the Intelligence and Security Committee ? how can minister ensure that those leave politic be not target in that way ? in that spirit , Mr Speaker , I have read report that the Conservative Back - Bench 1922 committee be to be brief on these matter later today . give the importance of national and democratic security to all the party in this House , be the Deputy Prime Minister intend to arrange a briefing for the Leader of the Opposition , the Intelligence and Security Committee and , indeed , the other political party represent in the House ? expert in this field have warn of China ' s voracious appetite for datum , and its potential use as compute power improve — for example , as quantum computing develop . the UK ' s record on datum security be patchy , to put it mildly . what be the Government do to protect complex and valuable dataset from be steal now , possibly in order to be manipulate later by more powerful computer that be control by authoritarian adversary ? finally , Mr Speaker , on the broad issue , do the fact that the Deputy Prime Minister choose to make this statement today signal a fundamental reassessment of the overall threat ? he refer to the United States and our ally . on 12 February , the US Administration warn Congress that the cyber - threat from China be change . previously , a threat that largely involve spying and influence now look like it be get ready to disrupt critical american infrastructure — aviation , energy , healthcare and other sector . be it now the UK Government ' s view that we should change our assessment of the threat in a similar way ? if so , this be of the utmost importance , and we would need to know what corresponding improvement the Government would make to the preparedness of our critical infrastructure , because if the threat really have change then so too should our response . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question . I shall seek to address as many of they as I can . when it come to chinese motivation , ultimately , it be a matter for the Chinese to be able justify their motivation , but the point that the right hon . Gentleman make be apposite . first , the Chinese look at successful democratic country , such as the United Kingdom , Japan or the Republic of Korea where I be last week , and they want to seek to undermine they . it be no surprise therefore that they should seek to interfere in electoral process , in the way that we have see conduct from Russia that align with that . indeed , the successful democratic election around the world right now stand in contrast to the sham election that we see in Russia last weekend . on the right hon . Gentleman ' s point about the public record of the Electoral Commission , I think that that be the essence of what have happen here . these attack and these attempt be ultimately pretty unsuccessful . I reassure the right hon . Gentleman and Members of this House that there be no infiltration of the closed register of the Electoral Commission , so the concern that he raise have not arise . on the further strengthening of the electoral register , that be precisely the work that the National Cyber Security Centre do in co - ordination with GCHQ , work with Government agency , include the Electoral Commission . the right hon . Gentleman be right to raise the risk of hack and leak . it be certainly something that we see in previous election , and I remain concerned . I also remain very concerned about artificial intelligence , deep fake in particular , be use to disrupt election , hence the work that I undertake at the conference last week and the progress that we be make with the accord on artificial intelligence use by malign state . in relation to target sanction , it be not the case that the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office pause target sanction . on the conduct of the former Foreign Secretary — [ interruption . ] I be not sack the Foreign Secretary from the Dispatch Box . on the conduct of the current Foreign Secretary , who sit in the other place , all appointment to Government be subject to the usual propriety and ethic process . Lord Cameron be address the 1922 Committee in his capacity as Foreign Secretary in the usual way , address a wide range of issue . it be not a specific briefing on this issue , but if leader of the principal Opposition party wish to have a further briefing on this issue I be of course very happy to facilitate that , in the way that they know I have do in relation to other national security issue . we be highly alert to the risk of hostile state hoover up currently quantum - encrypt information that could subsequently be decode with advance in quantum computing . we do extensive work with the National Cyber Security Centre and the Ministerial Cyber Board on critical national infrastructure to ensure that we guard ourselves against exactly that risk . on our relationship with China more broadly , member of this House should take this moment very seriously . it be a grave moment , against a backdrop of an escalating threat from China , and we will take proportionate action in response to that escalating threat . tomorrow , it will be three year since parliamentarian here be sanction ; your defence of we , Mr Speaker , have be remarkable . although I welcome the two sanction from the Government , it be a little bit like an elephant give birth to a mouse . the reality be that in those three year the Chinese have trash the sino - british agreement and be commit murder , slave labour and genocide in Xinjiang . we have have break church , and , in Hong Kong , false court case against Jimmy Lai . my question be : why two ? America have sanction more than 40 people in Hong Kong ; we have sanction none , and only three lowly official in Xinjiang . surely the integrated review should be change . China be not an epoch - define challenge , strange as that may be , but it be surely a threat . can the Government now correct that , so that we all know where we be with China ? my right hon . friend ' s view be well known to I , I genuinely welcome the constructive , at most time , debate that I have with he , but nobody should be in any doubt about the gravity of this matter . these be not the action of a friendly state , and they require our serious attention . as he have describe , this be an escalating situation . the measure that we have announce today be the first step , but the Government will respond proportionately at all time to the fact in front of we . no one should be in any doubt about the Government ' s determination to face down and deal with threat to our national security , from wherever they come . I call the SNP spokesperson . I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for his statement , and for advanced sight of it . in the statement , he say : " I have take step to reduce the Government ' s exposure to chinese operator , ban Hikvision and TikTok from Government building and device " , but the reality be that the Hikvision ban extend only to sensitive site , despite the fact that we have push he to ensure that it extend to all public building . surely the majority of thing that happen in government involve some sort of confidential information . will he confirm whether he be extend the ban beyond sensitive site to all Government site , as we have be call for for a number of year ? the attack on the Electoral Commission and parliamentarian account happen nearly three year ago . will we be sit here in 2027 hear about an attack that be happen right now ? the EU be currently deliver € 240 million for cyber - security to improve its collective resilience . will the Government deliver an equivalent fund for these island ? finally , without more action , can he give we real assurance that this year ' s general election will take place without international interference ? as the hon . Lady be aware , we currently ban Hikvision , and indeed any other chinese technology relate to CCTV . we continue to keep that under review . I do not rule out a further progression in the policy , but that be not the case right now . on the time take , it be essential that , before minister stand at the Dispatch Box and make assertion attribute such activity to a hostile state , we be absolutely sure of the basis on which we do so . that require extensive work by our intelligence agency , it require fine judgment to be make , and it require work to be do with our ally around the world — there will be comment from the United States shortly after my statement . I would rather we do this in the proper way . we have invest £ 2 . 6 billion on cyber - security during this spending review . I can never be totally confident in relation to cyber - security — no Government Minister anywhere in the world can be ; it be an environment in which the risk be escalate all the time and be turbocharge by artificial intelligence — but I can assure the hon . Lady and other member that we be constantly increase our activity and vigilance in the face of it . like my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , I be rather underwhelme by this statement . in the three year since seven parliamentarian be sanction , we have be subject to intimidation , impersonation and hacking , as have the family of exile from China with whom we have associate . today , the Deputy Prime Minister have describe hostile actor ’ malign act towards the integrity of our electoral system and parliamentary democracy — foreign interference — and sanction two individual and one company employ 50 people with a turnover of £ 208 , 000 . do he think that that be proportionate , and can he confirm that the Government will put the whole of the Chinese Communist Government in the enhance tier of the foreign influence registration scheme ? my hon . friend may be aware that we be currently in the process of collective Government agreement in relation to the enhance tier of the foreign interference registration scheme . clearly , the conduct that I have describe today will have a very strong bearing on the decision that we make in respect of it . in relation to the sanction , it be worth note that this be the first time that the Government have impose sanction in respect of cyber - activity . I believe that they be proportionate and target , but they also sit in the context of action that we have be take with our international ally . they be a first step , and we remain totally open to take further step as the situation evolve . the path we be go on with this be clear . my first reaction be : " be that it ? " the spin be clearly not match by this statement . the Deputy Prime Minister say that there be an issue around nuclear and high education . that be because the Government encourage China to invest in nuclear , and cut the budget of our university so they be reliant on chinese student . the Deputy Prime Minister also duck the question ask by my right hon . friend the Member for Wolverhampton South East ( Mr McFadden ) about Lord Cameron . will Lord Cameron publish all the money and interaction that he have with chinese entity when he be out of government ? the Deputy Prime Minister say that he be committed to the security service . why , then , in the Budget on 6 March , be the security budget cut by £ 600 million next year ? that be not a sign of a Government who be take this issue seriously . the Foreign Secretary have provide a full declaration of all his interest — no he hasn ' t ! I will take lecture from Labour Members on action in relation to security threat with a pinch of salt . it be this Government who introduce the National Security and Investment Act 2021 ; it be this Government who pass the Higher Education ( Freedom of Speech ) Act 2023 ; it be this Government who pass the National Security Act 2023 — none of which we see from the Labour party during its year in office . we have see report of espionage on UK campus , aggression on UK soil , massive cyber - attack and hostile corporate takeover . it be abundantly clear that China be a hostile state and pose an unprecedented threat to our national security . as Home Secretary , I oversee the enactment of the National Security Act , which build the foreign influence registration scheme design specifically to deal with such threat so that our authority have the right power to tackle they . be there not a compelling case for China to be list on that register , and if not now , when ? I pay tribute to my right hon . and learn Friend for the work that she do — she and I work closely together on many of those thing . there be a strong case , and my right hon . and learn Friend will be aware of the process that we go through to determine that . it have to be agree through a collective Government agreement . on the point about hostile state , though , I disagree with my right hon . and learn Friend ; it be not the case that any five Eyes nation have designate China explicitly as a hostile state . the language I have use in relation to China reflect the complex situation of that state , but I want colleague to be in no doubt about the direction that government policy be take , how gravely we take this issue , and the overall escalation of our stance on it . I , too , be quite surprised at the difference between what be brief and some of the information that the Deputy Prime Minister have give we today , and the sum of the action take . he say that the Government have take rapid and robust action when talk about thing that happen three and four year ago , and the sanctioning of two individual and a minor company do not seem to meet the definition of robust . how do he think that take the tiny step he have announce today will deter the Chinese from carry on in the way they have be do , as the Deputy Prime Minister have outline and be very clear from the China report that the Intelligence and Security Committee be finally allow to publish late ? first , in relation to briefing , I can categorically assure you , Mr Speaker , and member of this House that there have be no briefing whatsoever from I or my Department in respect of this matter . as ever , I would say , " Don ' t believe everything that you read in the newspaper . " as for the overall direction of government policy , it be clearly set . this be not just about offensive action , but the extensive defensive action we have take to continuously increase the security of our Government system . I make no apology for the time we have take to properly call out China in this respect . I want to make sure that when I stand at the Dispatch Box , I be able to do so on a solid basis , painstakingly put together by our ally and our security agency . rise — who shall we go to ? a former Attorney General , no less . the front page of the Telegraph today report whitehall source say that China , Russia and Iran be even fuel disinformation about the Princess of Wales to destabilise the nation . hostile state with leader who fake their own election and be hate by their own people be spread wild conspiracy theory about the royal family , among many other thing — our royal family who be hugely popular and much love . do the Deputy Prime Minister agree that british people will ignore that grotesque disinformation despite the pathetic attempt of those autocratic regime ? I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for raise the issue , and extend my good wish to member of the royal family at this very difficult time . the appalling speculation that we have see over the past few week come as a reminder to we all that it be important for we to ensure that we deal with valid and trust information , and be appropriately sceptical about many online source . as one of the parliamentarian target , can I thank the security official for the work they do to repel this attack ? I be glad it be not successful . however , I have to say that the Deputy Prime Minister have turn up at a gunfight with a wooden spoon . the attack that he stand up and announce at the Dispatch Box happen three year ago , but he come to the House and call this " swift " . he come to the House and say he have take robust action but , as the hon . member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) mention , the entity he have sanction have few than 50 employee and have a turnover of £ 200 , 000 a year . he have not sanction a single chinese state official . he have not even tell the House whether the chinese ambassador have be summon , after what he have come to the Dispatch Box to tell we today . [ interruption . ] forgive I , he say he have be summon — my apology . can I press the Deputy Prime Minister on the enhance tier of the foreign influence registration scheme ? what possible good excuse could there be for not have China in that , and if we do not take more robust action and see a proper sea change in Government thinking , rather than this tinker around the edge , will this not happen more and more and get bad and bad ? I think everything about the hon . Gentleman ' s question suggest that he do not actually listen to the statement I make . I say that there have be a d é marche , and that be exactly what be happen . I have already set out the position in relation to the foreign influence registration system . the Deputy Prime Minister know that cyber - attack on UK institution come from a wide range of actor — state and criminal — as we see in the recent big attack on the British Library , and it be important that our law be up to date to protect against this . in 2022 the Government announce that they would update the Network and Information Systems Regulations 2018 to " protect essential and digital service against increasingly sophisticated and frequent cyber attack both now and in the future . " in 2022 that be to be do as soon as parliamentary time allow . why have it not be do , and when will it be do ? the work be pretty much complete , and as soon as parliamentary time allow we will be bring forward those measure . I be sorry , but I find the Deputy Prime Minister today utterly unconvincing . the idea that " swift " mean take three year to publish something that have already be publish by a Committee of this House be utterly preposterous . it mean that if there be an attempt this year , we would hear about it long after the general election and possibly after another general election after that . the truth be that , if he actually think this be the sum total of all the chinese state ' s attempt to disrupt the british democratic system , he be wilfully blind and be therefore dangerous . there be two thing that the Government could do immediately to enhance confidence in this area : first , bring forward the motion to allow the Foreign Secretary to answer question in this House from member of the House of Commons ; and secondly , publish the full unexpurgated Russia report . I be sorry that the hon . member be not happy with the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , my right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , who be sit to my right , and who I think do an excellent job of answer question in this House . on the time that this have take , there be a difference between acknowledging , as the Electoral Commission do , the fact that an attack have take place , and the process of attribution , which take a long period of time for the reason I have set out repeatedly from this Dispatch Box . I be proud to have the British Library at Boston Spa in my constituency , and I will be meet it in a week ' s time to talk about the cyber - attack . that be just one aspect of what have happen recently , but we be talk about the protection of democracy as well , and the timeframe on which we be move on some issue do concern I . one of the big concern will be deepfake news profile — with people allege to have say thing , and video of people allegedly do thing — at the next election . I urge my right hon . friend to work now to try to establish procedure so that everybody across this House will be able to call out efficiently the fake news that may be use to try to influence the election . as he have say , people should be careful what they believe , but what can people believe in unless there be robust system to call out what be absolutely fake ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right to raise this issue . we be work with tech company on , for example , the watermarking of image to ensure that people have a sense of whether they be real . however , this can not just be action from the UK Government ; we have to work internationally , which be why at the global summit for democracy we launch the global Government compact on counter the deceptive use of AI by foreign state in election . that be the United Kingdom lead across nation around the world to ensure that we can act in co - ordination to address this issue . moreover , everyone in this rapidly evolve technological world need to be mindful of the fact that information can not be trust in the way it use to be just a few year ago . the Deputy Prime Minister talk in his statement about " the powerful strength of our collective voice " . we can contrast the sanction that have be announce this afternoon with those that follow the Novichok poisoning in 2018 . on that occasion , 130 russian diplomat be expel from more than 25 country , and the EU ambassador to Moscow be withdraw . what step be the Government take to co - ordinate a robust response to this alleged attack on democracy by work with our democratic ally ? that be exactly what we be do . I raise the issue with opposite number in Japan and Korea when I be there , and I have raise it with the United States , with whom we have be co - ordinating exceptionally closely . the US will be make a statement on its action shortly , if not currently . we have proceed in this way precisely to ensure that we act not alone but with like - minded state . interestingly , that be in relation not just to the five Eyes but to european partner and international partner , particularly in the Asia - Pacific . this issue require that kind of co - ordinate action , at a time when our democratic institution not just here , but around the world , be under increase threat . it be important that democratic nation work together in concert , and that be exactly what we be do . may I join the Deputy Prime Minister in pay tribute to all those who do so much in the UK intelligence community ? will he join I in reassure those on the shadow Front Bench that Lord Cameron in the other place oversee GCHQ and the Secret Intelligence Service , and he be probably in a good place to know what be go on ? reference have be make to the China report publish in July 2023 — I be one of the co - author , with one or two other in this Chamber . page 198 of that report refer to the UK security service face " a formidable challenge " . I welcome the fact that the Government have play catch - up — that be another criticism — and have catch up to a certain extent . I particularly welcome the £ 2 . 6 billion over the past three year go to cyber - protection for our critical national infrastructure . we be go to finish because , in fairness to the Deputy Prime Minister , he indicate that he want to finish early because of other thing happen around the world . if he be happy to continue , then so I be . I be happy to continue . in which case , let we carry on . I be sure that I will regret say that , Mr Speaker . my right hon . friend be absolutely right to pay tribute to our intelligence agency . I see their work at first hand , day in , day out . we be one of a very small number of country that have intelligence agency of this standard . it enable we all to be more secure . I welcome the tone of vigilance , which be in stark contrast to the nonchalance show by the Johnson Government over early russian interference in our election and the Brexit referendum . why should we believe the Government ' s honest intention when they still have not implement all the recommendation of the Russia report ? the right hon . Gentleman will have see the conduct of the Government and , for example , the further sanction we impose on Russia just a few month ago . we have not hesitate in take robust action in relation to Russia , just as we will continue to do with any threat from China . bear in mind all that my right hon . friend have say , he may be concern to hear what we have hear in the Defence Committee . English Ministry of Defence company be have a nightmare in employ those with specialist AI skill from university , because they be all chinese . be he aware of that , and what will he do to counter this potential threat to our security ? clearly , anyone employ by a relevant defence company or in the UK Government will be subject to advanced vetting , which would likely preclude a number of the individual my hon . friend describe . the main thing that we have get to do be increase our skill in this country , which be why we be invest in science , technology , engineering and math . we be very fortunate in have three or four of the top 10 university in the world in the United Kingdom — wherever I go in the world , people look at that with envy — which be a base from which both our intelligence agency and industry can draw . these cyber - attack occur in 2021 and 2022 , so we really must ask how it have take the government so long to make this statement . we should reflect on the Deputy Prime Minister say that these actor " gain access to the Electoral Commission ' s email and file - share system , which contain copy of the electoral register . " this be an election year , and it should put fear into the heart of all of we that the Chinese have access to the UK ' s electoral register , at a time like this when we be already worried about bad actor , about cyber - attack take place and about the use of AI . the Deputy Prime Minister talk about take robust action — good grief : two individual be be sanction . reference have be make to what happen over Novichok , when we swiftly take action to expel diplomat from this country and around the world . I hope that when the chinese ambassador meet the Deputy Prime Minister , he will be tell that diplomat will be expel . will the Deputy Prime Minister come back to the House tomorrow and tell we about the robust action that he should be take ? you be confuse shout with robustness . I will answer the question slightly less aggressively than how it be put ; I will make my point in my own way . first , as the Electoral Commission say in its statement , the datum contain in electoral register be limited , and much of it be already in the public domain . the Electoral Commission have already declare the fact of the attack . what be different today be that , contrary to some speculation at the time , we be announce that it be in relation to chinese - relate actor . that be what have change . on our overall approach , I have set out a direction . these be grave threat , which we take seriously . we be take proportionate action now , and we will continue to take step as require . a successful deterrent require the capability and the will to retaliate . have we get either ? yes , we do , on both front . my right hon . friend will be well aware of our National Cyber Force , but I do not comment on the conduct of that from the Dispatch Box . in January 2023 , Lord Cameron of Chipping Norton — prior to his appointment as Foreign Secretary , of course — go to Sri Lanka to drum up investment for Port City Colombo , which be a belt and road project launch by President Xi , which many believe will become a military base for the chinese navy . follow Lord Cameron ' s appointment as Foreign Secretary , many freedom of information request have be submit to the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to try to shed some light on his visit to Sri Lanka , include who he meet and what sort of conversation take place , but to date not a single one of those FOI request have be comply with by the fcdo . do the Deputy Prime Minister agree that that be a matter of the high public interest and that sunlight be the good form of disinfectant , and therefore the fcdo should comply with those FOI request as a matter of urgency ? the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office always deal with FOI request in the proper way . I have to say that try to link chinese cyber - attack to our current Foreign Secretary be pretty desperate stuff . it just do not wash . it be absolutely right that we call out these malicious action , because otherwise they will become normalise . do the Deputy Prime Minister agree that when it come to our security , and indeed our economic interest , there be an important parity between the digital space and our physical terrain , and that that should be reflect in defence spending ? do he also agree that Beijing be watch today ' s event and will no doubt retaliate ? should we brace ourselves for further individual sanction against british personnel ? my right hon . friend be right to highlight the need for investment . that be precisely why , in the last spending review period , we put £ 2 . 6 billion into our wide cyber - defence . I be confident that we will be able to deal with any retaliatory action by Beijing effectively . we should be worried about chinese influence in various area of Government . Graham Barrow , the Companies House expert , have be warn for quite some time about dubious company incorporation that have originate in China . he believe that they be be create use an algorithm , and there be evidence that company be be incorporate use steal UK credential , from UK address , street at a time . what conversation have the Deputy Prime Minister have with Companies House , and would he be willing to meet Graham Barrow to hear his conclusion ? I , or another Minister , will be happy to meet he . that be precisely why we set up the National Cyber Security Centre , which use GCHQ expertise to inform our approach to cyber , and engage with business and individual . that approach be renowned and admire around the world , because we can give high - quality advice through the National Cyber Security Centre . week after week , I receive delegation from around the world who want to see what we have do with the National Cyber Security Centre . the £ 2 . 6 billion in additional money to counter cyber threat be very welcome . this field be constantly evolve , and those who wish we harm be innovate far . I accept that my right hon . friend will not comment on the exact detail , but will he at least assure the House that the £ 2 . 6 billion outgun what those who wish we harm spend on new threat ? the amount of spending compare extremely favourably with that spend in similar G7 country around the world . I be confident that we have world - lead expertise , and we be constantly evolve our capability in this space . I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for his statement and his answer . I have occasion just five week ago to see Mr Speaker about an incident . the Deputy Prime Minister may be aware — if not , he will be shortly — that the all - party parliamentary group for international freedom of religion or belief , which I chair , have its website hack , and the text that question human right violation by China be remove . I report it to Mr Speaker and make he aware of what take place . it be clear that nothing whatsoever be sacred to the Chinese . the work of the elect member of this House be not treat with respect . will the Deputy Prime Minister commit to stop handle the chinese overstep — for want of a well description — with kid glove , and instead handle they with authority , and help China to understand that it will not trample over democracy in this place , or elsewhere , without be hold accountable in the very strict term ? we will certainly hold China to account in the way that the hon . Gentleman describe . I will happily make sure that the parliamentary authority and the National Cyber Security Centre be in touch with he about the attack that he describe . we know that legacy IT system be most likely to be cyber - attack . have the Deputy Prime Minister order an inventory of all government it equipment , to see where particular vulnerability lie ? yes . my hon . friend be right to raise this issue . the first step be to properly understand where those vulnerability lie . we have undertake extensive work to ensure that we know where risk lie , and we be put in place measure to remediate those risk . this be too little , too late . it be reactive , not proactive . two lowly official get sanction when half the UK population ' s datum and electoral roll get cyber - attack . I do not feel that the issue be be take seriously enough . let I remind the House how serious this be : in October last year , MI5 warn of the " epic scale " of chinese espionage , and report that more than 20 , 000 people in the UK have be covertly approach online by chinese spy . our Commons Intelligence and Security Committee say that China be " prolifically and aggressively " target the UK , and have manage successfully to penetrate every sector of the UK ' s economy . my question be simple : how can any of we here , or outside in society , trust this UK Government , when they be far too late , and do very little of what need to be do ? I simply do not accept that characterisation , give that it be this Government who set up the NCSC , this Government who set up the ministerial cyber board , and this Government who invest £ 2 . 6 billion in our cyber - defence . I have consistently warn , time and again , about the cyber - threat face the United Kingdom , and we be take step to address they . every time the Deputy Prime Minister come to the House , he lay out his plan eloquently , and be more assertive ; he say , " we be do this new thing , and that new thing , to react to the threat . " do we not still need much great coherence across all Government Departments in how we deal with the threat , whether the issue be student , the protection of Hong Kong citizen , intellectual property or cyber - attack ? my hon . friend raise an important point . I pay tribute to the work that he have do in this space , and I have discuss the issue with he on many occasion . he be right that the UK Government , in common with the US Government and other around the world , have evolve enormously in their approach to China . the sort of China we have hope for even a decade ago be not the China we have now , whether we be talk about Hong Kong , Xinjiang or elsewhere . we continue to increase our effort on the matter that he describe . that be precisely why we set up the defend democracy taskforce , lead by the Minister for Security . the Deputy Prime Minister be right to address these issue and , as he say , call they out , but just call they out do not really cut the mustard . there be certainly no appearance of urgency . there be a worrying sense of " nothing to see here " in some of his response . he reference human right . we know well the issue there , include the horrific force labour and bad face by the uyghur population . the action he be outline on all those front be very underwhelming , and actually a bit baffling . do he think that the large number of member across the House who be obviously very much underwhelme by his statement be all wrong , or be it possible that his statement somehow miss the mark ? first of all , it be important to remember that ultimately — I want to reassure the House and the public — these attempt be unsuccessful . I be not be complacent ; I be set out the fact . as for the risk , at CYBERUK in Belfast last year , I warn that cyber - threat continue to come from the usual suspect — Russia , China , Iran and North Korea . in the Government security conference , I call out russian state interference , and we create Secure by Design . we have not hesitate to take action , and we will continue to do so . democracy be not perfect , but the right to choose who make the law that govern we be really precious , and it be really scary to hear that a foreign power might be try to intervene in that . Mr Deputy Speaker , as one of the few woman who have speak during this statement , I want to remind you again how concerned I be about the threat and harassment that woman get when stand for Parliament , especially as we get close to an election . as well as cyber - security , I be very concerned about physical security . two and a half year ago , my Essex neighbour be murder at his constituency surgery . last Friday , at my constituency surgery , the security operative recommend by this Parliament fail to show up for the second time this year . I be very grateful to the Deputy Prime Minister for recently put extra money into security for both parliamentarian and candidate , but will he look again at the working of this House , and at how our security be govern , because that funding be not get to those of we on the frontline ? my right hon . friend make a concern allegation , which I will take up for the Government , work with the House authority . as she will be aware , we take the threat exceptionally seriously , which be why we agree an unprecedented increase in protective security for member of this House and other elect representative . we should all take that threat very seriously , not least in the light of the two appalling murder of parliamentarian that I have see in my time in this House . when it come to matter of national security such as this , my inclination be to work on a cross - party basis , and for we to show a unified face , but do the Deputy Prime Minister not understand that the relative weakness of the response to this terrible series of attack , combine with his evasiveness over question about the financial interest of the Foreign Secretary , be bind to increase people ' s concern ? it be understand that Lord Cameron still have close link with the chinese state in respect of numerous business venture , and it be report last week that the Government have secretly soften their policy against chinese business implicate in human right abuse . will the Deputy Prime Minister strengthen his response , and demonstrate by his action and through transparency that this soft - pedalling be nothing suspicious ? the hon . Gentleman say that we should have a cross - party approach , and then immediately seek , on political ground , to denigrate the Foreign Secretary and turn this into a party political matter . I be afraid that he will have to choose one approach or the other . when we think ahead to the election , we should bear in mind the point raise today about artificial intelligence and the threat to democracy . we often talk about the concept of deepfake news — which use to be just fake news — but this be not just about deepfake . it be also about the risk of rumour bomb to dissuade people from go to the poll on the day , and about voice clone ; people be telephone by someone pretend to be a daughter or other family member , who say , " do not go and vote today . " there be many risk of which we may not even be aware , and the datum that we be talk about today may be use in conjunction with datum from Facebook and other source to enable people to pretend that they be something they be not . along with the work take place in Government and with tech company , could there be an education campaign , to let the public know that there be well way to become aware of the risk that they may face during the election ? my hon . friend have make an important point . at a time of rapidly evolve technology , particularly artificial intelligence , there will always be limit to the ability of agency , or company , to call this stuff out . there need to be great awareness among the public of the risk , and of the need to treat image of this kind with much more scepticism , and I will take that up with my colleague the Education Secretary . Professor Jim Saker , the president of the Institute of the Motor Industry , have warn about the threat that chinese - manufacture electric vehicle could pose , in give China access to big datum and personal information . he have say that " connected electric vehicle flood the country could be the most effective Trojan Horse that the chinese establishment have " to impact the UK . what consideration have the Deputy Prime Minister give to the threat pose by those vehicle ? that too be an important point . obviously , any new technology or car put on the UK market will have to meet our safety standard , and that will include an assessment of the threat to which the hon . Lady have refer . under the National Security and Investment Act 2021 , I can decide to block or impose condition on any investment or transaction , from whichever state , and whichever company , in any country . that be another tool in our weaponry that we do not have previously . my right hon . friend will no doubt be aware that the Electoral Commission fail a National Cyber Security Centre cyber essential audit at about the time when these breach occur . among the failing identify be the fact that staff laptop and smartphone be run outdated system — include Windows 10 Enterprise , which , at the time , be no long receive security update . do my right hon . friend not agree that these failing look awfully like extraordinary negligence on the part of the Electoral Commission , and how satisfied be he that the commission have do everything necessary to regularise its procedure ? my right hon . friend be right to highlight that issue . it be precisely because of those concern that we have ensure that the Electoral Commission be work closely with the National Cyber Security Centre to achieve a significant step up in its capability and its cyber resilience . it be essential for that work to be undertake , and it have be undertake . in May this year , Rotherham will hold a local election , like other place throughout the country . at the last local election , in 2021 , Labour keep control of Rotherham Metropolitan Borough Council by a margin of only 54 elector . what step be the Government take to ensure that when people cast their vote for the Conservatives in Rotherham , those vote to end 50 year of Labour rule be secure ? I trust and hope that we will achieve that outcome . I would like to assure member that we have every confidence in the integrity of the election . through the defend democracy taskforce and the action take by the Minister responsible for local government , my hon . friend the Member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) , who have write to all local authority in the past week , we be ensure that the integrity of those important election be preserve . I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for his statement today , and for respond to question for over an hour . woman ' s State Pension Age with permission , I would like to make a statement to provide an interim update on the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman ' s investigation into the way that change to the state pension age be communicate to woman bear in the 1950 . I be grateful to the ombudsman for conduct this investigation . I recognise the strength of feeling on this issue , and it be important to set out the wide context and our initial understanding of the report itself . the fact that it have take over five year for the ombudsman to produce the final report reflect the complexity of this matter . the period that the investigation consider span around 30 year , date back to the decision that Parliament take in 1995 to equalise the state pension age for man and woman gradually from 2010 . since then , change have be make through a series of act of Parliament introduce by successive government , which result in the state pension age for woman rise to 65 by November 2018 , and then to 66 by October 2020 . the announcement in 1993 about equalise the state pension age address a long - stand inequality between man and woman . the change be about maintain the right balance between the sustainability of the state pension , fairness between generation and ensure a dignified retirement in later life . woman retire today can still expect to receive the state pension for more than 21 year on average — over two year long than for man . have the Government not equalise the state pension age , woman would have be retire today at 60 , and they could have spend , on average , over 40 % of their adult life in receipt of the state pension . that would have be unfair , because , by the 1990 , life expectancy have significantly increase compare with 1948 , when the state pension age for woman be set at 60 . turn to the investigation itself , it be important to be clear about what the ombudsman have not say , particularly follow some of the inaccurate and misleading commentary since the report be publish . the ombudsman have look not at the decision to equalise the state pension age , but at how that decision be communicate by the Department for Work and Pensions . the report hinge on the Department ' s decision over a narrow period between 2005 and 2007 , and on the effect of those decision on individual notification . the ombudsman have not find that woman have directly lose out financially as a result of DWP ' s action . the report state : " we do not find that it " — mean DWP ' s communication — result in the complainant " suffer direct financial loss " . the final report have not say that all woman bear in the 1950 will have be adversely impact , as many woman be aware that the state pension age have change . in his stage 1 report , the ombudsman find that " between 1995 and 2004 , DWP ' s communication of change to State Pension age reflect the standard we would expect it to meet . " the report also confirm that accurate information about change to the state pension age be publicly available in leaflet , through DWP ' s pension education campaign , through DWP ' s agency , and on its website . however , when consider the DWP ' s action between August 2005 and December 2007 , the ombudsman come to the view that those action result in 1950 - bear woman receive individual notice later than they might , have different decision be make . it be important to remember that during the course of the ombudsman ' s investigation , the state pension age change be consider by the court . in 2019 and 2020 , the High Court and the Court of Appeal respectively find no fault with the action of the DWP . the court make it clear that under successive government date back to 1995 , the action take be entirely lawful and do not discriminate on any ground . during these proceeding , the Court of Appeal hold that the High Court be entitle to conclude as a fact that there have be " adequate and reasonable notification give by the publicity campaign implement by the Department over a number of year . " the ombudsman have take five year to produce his final report . as the chief executive of the ombudsman herself have set out , the DWP have fully co - operate with the ombudsman ' s investigation throughout this time and provide thousand of page of detailed evidence . we continue to take the work of the ombudsman very seriously , and it be only right that we now fully and properly consider the finding and detail of what be a substantial document . the ombudsman have note in his report the challenge and complexity of this issue . in lay the report before Parliament , the ombudsman have bring matter to the attention of the House , and we will provide a further update to the House once we have consider the report ' s finding . this Government have a strong track record of support all pensioner . in 2023 - 24 , we will spend over £ 151 billion on support for pensioner . that be 5 . 5 % of gdp , and include around £ 124 billion for the state pension . we be committed to ensure that the state pension remain the foundation of income in retirement now and for future generation . that be why we be honour the triple lock by increase the basic and new state pension by 8 . 5 % from next month . this see the full rate of the new state pension rise by £ 900 a year and it follow last year ' s rise of 10 . 1 % . we now have 200 , 000 few pensioner in absolute poverty after housing cost than there be in 2010 . our sustained commitment to the triple lock demonstrate our determination to continue to combat pensioner poverty in the future . that be why we have reform the state pension as well as workplace pension , improve the retirement outcome for many woman . our commitment to pensioner be why we introduce automatic enrolment , which have see million more woman save into a workplace pension . this Government be commit to support pensioner in a sustainable way , provide they with a dignified retirement while also be fair to they and to taxpayer . I have set out our strong track record of back our pensioner . I have also set out our commitment to the full and proper consideration of the ombudsman ' s report . I note that the ombudsman have lay his final report on this issue before Parliament , and of course I can assure the House that the Government will continue to engage fully and constructively with Parliament , as we have do with the ombudsman . I thank the Secretary of State for give I advance sight of his statement , and thank the ombudsman and his staff for all their hard work . this be a serious report that require serious consideration . the ombudsman have rightly say that it be for the Government to respond but that Parliament should also consider its finding . Labour Members will look carefully at the report too , and continue to listen respectfully to those involve , as we have do from the start . the Secretary of State say that he will provide a further update to the House on this matter . when will he do so after the House return from its Easter recess ? this have be go on for year . he rightly say that issue around the change to the state pension age have span multiple Parliaments , but those of we who have be around a little while will remember that the turning point that spark the woman against State Pension Inequality campaign be the Pensions Act 2011 , in which the then Chancellor , George Osborne decide to accelerate the state pension age increase with very little notice . his comment that this " probably save more money than anything else we ' ve do " understandably anger many woman . at the time , Labour table amendment that would have ensure proper notice be give so that woman could plan for their retirement , which would have go some way towards deal with this problem . the ombudsman begin investigate how change to the state pension age be communicate in 2019 . in the same year , the High Court rule that the ombudsman could not recommend change to the state pension age itself or the reimbursement of lost pension , because that have be decide by Parliament . the ombudsman ' s final report , publish last week , say that , in 2004 , internal research from the Department for Work and Pensions find that around 40 % of the woman affect know about the change to the state pension age . do that remain the Government ' s assessment ? what be their assessment of the total number of woman who would receive compensation base on the ombudsman ' s different option ? how many of they be the poor pensioner on pension credit ? how many be already retire or have , sadly , pass away ? give the Department already know there be problem with communicate change to the state pension age , why do the Government press ahead with the change in the 2011 Act in the way they do , and in the way that spark the WASPI campaign ? the Government be currently commit to provide 10 year ' notice of future change to the state pension age , but labour ' s 2005 pension commission call for 15 year ' notice . have the Government consider the merit of a long timeframe , and how they would improve communication in future ? labour be fully commit to guarantee that information about any future change to the state pension age be provide in a timely and target way that is , wherever possible , tailor to individual need . will the Government now do the same ? crucially , the Secretary of State omit to say that the ombudsman take the rare decision to ask Parliament to intervene on this issue because the ombudsman strongly doubt that the Department will provide a remedy . in the light of these concern , and in order to aid Parliament in its work , will the Secretary of State now commit to lay all the relevant information about this issue , include all impact assessment and related correspondence , in the House of Commons Library so that lesson can be learn and so that Members across the House can properly do their job ? our current and future pensioner deserve nothing less . I thank the hon . Lady for her response , not least on the apparent point of agreement between we . we accept that there be strong feeling about these complex issue , and she be right to say that they must be give serious consideration and that we should listen respectfully to all those affect . she ask when the Government will return to the House with a further update , and I can assure she that there will be no undue delay . the hon . Lady make a slightly political point about the 2011 Act , and I gently remind she that the ombudsman ' s report focus on the period between 2005 and 2007 , when her party be in government . the hon . Lady ask a series of question about various assessment base on the finding in the report . of course , that go to the heart of my response , which be — and I think she agree with this — that we should look closely at the report in order to make those assessment . on the hon . Lady ' s specific point about notice of change to state pension age , it have always be the position that that should be adequate . indeed , in the last review that I undertake of it , there be a delay in the decision to increase the state pension age to 68 into the next Parliament . among other reason , that be to allow for just that point to be address . what be particularly important now be that we will fully engage with Parliament , as we do with the ombudsman . on the hon . Lady ' s point about the ombudsman , its chief executive state on Sky News on Thursday , the day the report be publish : " the Government , the DWP , completely co - operate with our report , with our investigation , and over the period of time we have be work they have provide we with the evidence that we ask for . " that be our record in this particular matter , but may I once again assure the House that the Government will continue to engage fully and constructively with Parliament , as we have do with the ombudsman ? I welcome the Secretary of State ' s comment and his emphasis that this be a complex matter — of course it be . however , the WASPI woman have be wait five year for the outcome of the ombudsman ' s report . in his report and subsequent to it , when he write to various Select Committee Chairs from across the House , he gently encourage we to keep a weather eye on how quickly the Government come forward with a solution . I recognise that this be an interim update , but I gently press my right hon . friend : the WASPI woman have be wait five year for the ombudsman and they will not want to wait for a Select Committee inquiry into this report in order to see action from the Government . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s question . let I reassure she , as I have just reassure the House , that there will be no undue delay in our approach to this matter . we engage fully with the ombudsman — that include more than 1 , 000 page of evidence and a full commentary in respect of the previous interim report that it publish . this report be more than 100 page in length and it be very detailed , so it be only right that we do , in an appropriate manner , give it the due attention that it deserve . the timid response from the Labour party be truly shocking . regardless of what we have just hear , WASPI woman have at long last be vindicate , after five long year , by the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman report . some 3 . 8 million woman be impact , of whom 270 , 000 have die without ever receive their rightful pension . despite what the Secretary of State say , the verdict of the ombudsman ' s report on the Department for Work and Pensions be damn and unequivocal , and weasel word will not change that . woman bear in the 1950s have their pension age raise with little or no notice , and there have be failing at every turn by successive UK government . the report state that these woman be owe compensation ; that the DWP have refuse to comply and must be hold accountable for do so ; and that there be a failure to adequately inform woman of the state pension age change . those failure have have a devastating impact on life , retirement and the financial and emotional wellbeing of WASPI woman . many have be reduce to poverty after be rob of ten of thousand of pound of pension , and that suffering have be cause by and be the responsibility of this break Westminster system and this cosy Westminster consensus . financial redress be vital for these woman and be in the interest of justice . clearly Labour be not interested in that , but what we need from the Government be a commitment to prompt compensation for these woman — with no barrier erect to prevent access to it — that recognise their financial loss and distress . we can not have a situation where WASPI woman have their campaign for justice vindicate and yet continue to be ignore . any attempt to do that will rightfully result in a backlash . we in the SNP stand shoulder to shoulder with these woman , who have be abandon and betray by the UK Government and the future Labour Government . will the Secretary of State tell the House what it will take to compensate these woman ? do we need another tv drama to embarrass and shame the Government into do the right thing ? these woman be not go away but the long this injustice be leave unresolved , the great the number of WASPI woman who will die without see their pension — shame on this place . the hon . Lady refer to " do the right thing " . do the right thing by the people the hon . Lady describe be to look very closely , carefully and diligently at the report . it have be five year in gestation . it be detailed , run to 100 page and draw upon a vast reservoir of evidence . it be only right and proper , give that the report be publish on Thursday and today be Monday , for all of we to have time to properly consider its finding . [ interruption . ] the hon . Lady refer to the general situation of pensioner . all I can say be that I be pleased and reassure that pension generally be a reserved matter . we have be able to increase the state pension , last year by 10 . 1 % and this coming year by 8 . 5 % . we have press hard on promote pension credit for poor pensioner . we have a cost of live payment . because it be a reserved matter , this Government be able to provide £ 300 to pensioner last November , alongside their winter fuel payment . as a consequence of that — [ interruption . ] order . the hon . Lady have ask a question . please listen to the answer . I be merely point out the fact that we stand four - square behind pensioner across the United Kingdom to support they . that be why under this Government there be 200 , 000 few pensioner in poverty , after housing cost , than there be in 2010 . WASPI woman across my Stroud constituency have campaign consistently and constructively . I have grow very fond of they as we have discuss the subject over the year . as the Secretary of State know , at the heart of the issue be woman say that they be leave unable to plan or that their plan for the future be scupper , so the focus should be on lay out a timetable as soon as possible . the issue of compensation be key to many of these woman , who will have read the report . it be right that the Secretary of State and his Department look through the report in detail , but will he lay out a timetable , tell these woman what be and be not possible , and manage their expectation as soon as possible , because they have wait ? my hon . friend be a member of the Work and Pensions Committee and I welcome her question . I reassure she that there will be no undue delay . I thank she for recognise that we need to look at these matter with great care . that do not mean come forward with some of the thing that the Scottish National party may wish we to do on a Monday , give that the report land with we only last Thursday . I call the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee . do the Secretary of State agree with the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee , as I do , that those affect should not have to wait for the outcome of a Select Committee inquiry before learn the Government ' s response ? the equalisation of the state pension age be legislate for in 1995 , give 15 year ' notice to those affect . the 2011 change , which accelerate the process , give much less than 10 year ' notice to those affect . be one of the lesson about what have go wrong that we must ensure major change of this kind provide at least 10 year ' notice , or preferably 15 year ' notice , before those change take effect ? the right hon . Gentleman raise the potential role of Select Committees in these matter . as the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee , he would have the authority to implement such idea , if he be minded to do so . however , it be important that I and my Department seriously consider the finding in the report before we come to our conclusion , and that we then come to the House to present those conclusion . that be the most important point . have see the report , I think this issue have go on long enough and we now need to choose a compensation scheme and get it finish . will the Secretary of State confirm that the Government will have make their mind up before the autumn fiscal event , so that we can see it set out by that date and know how much the cost will be ? whether there will be an autumn statement at all , and the date thereof , be not within my remit — indeed , I be not certain whether an autumn statement be pencil in for any particular date , or otherwise . the most important thing be that we recognise — this message should go out loud and clear from the Dispatch Box today — that there should be no undue delay in come to the appropriate conclusion on this matter . the WASPI scandal have be a huge injustice for million of woman , include woman in my constituency . the Secretary of State have say that he want to continue to look in detail at the finding of the report , but surely he should be able to make an unambiguous commitment to compensation for these woman . the ombudsman have to take the rare step of lay this before Parliament , due to the Department for Work and Pensions refuse to comply . will the Secretary of State today set out a timeline for when he will come back to this House and say how he intend to ensure that these woman be compensate fully ? the hon . Lady be attempt to draw I into come to premature conclusion on some of the finding in the report , which I be afraid I not go to do for the reason I have already give . once again on the issue of timing , there will be no undue delay . I call the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on state pension inequality for woman . I be most grateful to my right hon . friend for his statement . the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman be itself WASPI , have be conceive in the 1950 . do my right hon . friend agree that a failure by Government to comply with its recommendation would be almost completely unprecedented over the past 70 year , and would in effect drive a coach and horse through an integral part of our system of democratic check and balance ? with that in mind , will he confirm that his Department will work in full haste with Parliament to agree a mechanism for remedy ? will he outline the work he be carry out to address further concern that have be raise over systematic failure by the DWP over several decade to properly communicate future pension change ? at the heart of this matter be the imperative to ensure that we fully and carefully examine the finding contain in the report . I will not be draw today on where we may end up in respect of those finding , but I assure my hon . friend that we will engage fully and constructively with Parliament on these matter . woman bear in the 1950 enter into a contract with the state , but the coalition Government renege on that , deny they their pension . in their fight for justice , thousand have die . since the ombudsman ' s report , over 100 have pass away , and many continue to live in poverty . shamefully , the Government be now delay action on the ombudsman ' s finding , and today have remain silent about proper compensation . will the Secretary of State apologise for their long wait for justice ? on the Pensions Act 2011 , as the hon . Lady will know from the report , the window that have be particularly examine and on which these consideration turn be 2005 to 2007 — a time when the Labour party be in office . but on a general and non - partisan point , my view be that we owe it to all woman who be bear in the 1950 to properly look at the report in detail , as I have describe , and at the same time to engage with Parliament in an appropriate way . my right hon . friend be correct to refer to the complexity of this situation . one aspect of that complexity be that these woman have suffer the loss of an opportunity to plan appropriately for their future . that be the consequence of the maladministration that the ombudsman have identify , and it will , of course , be different for each individual . can he say anything about the work that his Department will now do to think about the appropriate remedy in such diverse circumstance ? will he also say , in support what my hon . friend the Member for Waveney ( Peter Aldous ) put to he , that maladministration must have consequence and therefore it be important for the Government to recognise , on behalf of previous government , that that maladministration must lead to some form of remedy ? my right hon . and learn Friend be right to refer , as I have do , to the complexity around this issue . he be understandably attempt to draw I into past comment on some of the finding in the report , which , for the reason I have give , I will not be do this afternoon . I reassure he that , whatever the conclusion or finding in the report , as I say in my statement , when these matter go to the Court of Appeal , the conclusion be that the High Court could treat as a matter of fact that " there have be adequate and reasonable notification give by the … Department over a number of year . " return to maladministration , the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman ' s stage 1 report find clear maladministration in 2021 in the way that the DWP communicate those change and that it do not pay attention to its own research show that 1950 - bear woman do not know about the change . almost three year on , the DWP have not publicly accept those finding . will the Minister finally admit to the DWP ' s failing that short - change hundred of thousand of 1950 WASPI woman ? without be draw into too much detail around the report , there be clearly an important distinction between those matter that have be find to be maladministration and those that have find to be maladministration and lead to injustice . set that apart , as I have say previously , I do not think it be right for I today to start dissect element of the report and some of the conclusion that have be arrive at . we will go away and look very carefully at these matter and then engage with Parliament appropriately . I thank my right hon . friend for the clarity with which he have set out the history of this issue . he will understand that my constituent who be affect wish , quite reasonably , to have a similar degree of clarity on the next step and the timescale , and it be my job to communicate to he today their strength of feeling on that . I understand that he will not be able to set out that timescale today , but can he reassure the House that he have in his mind a timescale for these next step ? as I have say , there should be no undue delay , but my hon . friend be absolutely right that clarity be what be require . that be why I be stress the point that clarity come with careful consideration . I pay tribute to all WASPI campaigner and stand in solidarity with they . I need also to declare that I be somebody who be bear in the 1950 . the treatment of the 1950 - bear woman in relation to change in woman ' s state pension have lead to great hardship for many . one woman in my constituency struggle to feed herself and have to sell her home as a result . the impact have be devastating . it be estimate that some 270 , 000 waspi woman have die since the start of the campaign in 2015 and that another die every 13 minute . I note the Minister ' s comment that there will be no undue delay . will he return to this House immediately after recess with a firm commitment to fast and fair compensation ? I think we owe it to all of those to whom the hon . Lady refer to act without undue delay — that be a commitment that I have make — and to look at these matter extremely carefully and make sure that we allow time to do that effectively . I welcome today ' s statement , and be very grateful for it . I know that the Secretary of State be under pressure this afternoon , but have receive a lot of correspondence from my Bracknell constituent , as other member have from theirs , let I ask a very objective question : do he have a personal message for those seek a definitive outcome ? I think my statement be the message . we recognise that these be complicated issue . we have collaborate fully with the inquiry , to the satisfaction of the chief executive officer of the ombudsman . we will study the report ' s finding very carefully , and engage with Parliament constructively , as we have do with the ombudsman . the Royal Society for the Relief of Indigent Gentlewomen of Scotland sound entirely otherworldly and quite funny , but that be not the case for the WASPI woman who come to my surgery in 2016 . she retire expect to get her state pension at 60 , and have to apply to the society for relief . she have to sell her home because she could not afford her retirement , as she do not receive her pension . what remedy for compensation do the Government consider suitable for that constituent , and other of mine , and when will they receive they ? the DWP have know about the issue for year and year . the example that the hon . Lady give once again underline in my mind the importance of proceed with great diligence and look at the finding of the report in great detail . as we all know , we receive that report on Thursday ; it be now Monday . give its length , and the complexity of the issue under consideration , it be not unreasonable for we to take the time to look closely at its conclusion . I add my voice to those call for an urgent announcement of a redress scheme in response to the report . the Secretary of State rightly point out that the action between 2005 and 2007 do not happen on his watch , or under any Conservative Government , but if he delay , he will stop be part of the solution and start to become part of the problem . when he introduce his redress scheme , he will need all the understanding and good will on both side of the House that he can muster to deal with the undoubted complexity of distinguish between the different kind and level of indirect loss in the report , so speed be vital . as my hon . friend point out , the timing be important . I have make the commitment that we will proceed without undue delay . million of woman have suffer an injustice , include more than 200 , 000 in Wales and 4 , 000 in my constituency of Cynon Valley . while much of the ombudsman ' s report be welcome , the compensation remedy be insufficient — indeed , it be insulting . in 2019 , the Labour party pledge an average payment of £ 15 , 500 . it be affordable , and the Government have save in the region of £ 200 billion since the equalisation of the state pension age , yet they still have not pledge anything at all . will the Minister please set a specific timeline so that we can have an urgent parliamentary process for mp to set a compensation scheme that will give fair , appropriate and fast compensation to these woman ? on the timing , I have now give this reply from the Dispatch Box on several occasion : there will be no undue delay . on the specific matter that the hon . Lady raise relate to remedy , that be one of the finding within the report that , along with all the other , we will of course consider very carefully . the Secretary of State be right to highlight the commitment to the triple lock , that the state pension will raise by some £ 900 this year , that there be few people in pensioner poverty than ever before , and that , predictably , the failure here happen under a previous government . nevertheless , do he accept that hardship in principle have be cause , both to WASPI woman on the Isle of Wight and nationally , and that a solution , while it clearly need to be affordable , be need to right a wrong that have take place ? reach the clarity that my hon . friend would like require we to have a close and careful look at the report , as I have be set out . we will do that as quickly as we can — we will not introduce any undue delay — and consult Parliament in an appropriate manner , as we do with the ombudsman . it be not that difficult . the WASPI woman have be screw over by the state and make to wait for year . I understand that the ombudsman process have to be undertake because the Government make that happen , but they could have face up to the reality much soon . can the Secretary of State guarantee the 6 , 500 WASPI woman in my constituency and those across the UK that he will not kick the can down the road past the next election and pass the buck to the Labour party , which can not make a promise about this matter either ? it be not good enough to stand in solidarity but take no action . on the question of time , I have make the position extremely clear . on the question of the report have have to gestate for five year , there be a delay of around two year because of the judicial review that go on in the middle of that process , so to suggest that the Government have in any way be hold thing up be not fair or accurate . indeed , as I have say the ombudsman chief executive have highlight the good level of co - operation that there have be with my Department . I thank my right hon . friend for come so swiftly to the House in the wake of the ombudsman ' s important report , which , as other hon . member have say , require a response . I pay tribute to the 4 , 000 WASPI woman in my constituency who have be affect by the change . although I welcome the important pension reform that outline , of which we can be proud , it be worth remember that 68 % of woman bear in the 1950 have rely on the state pension , as oppose to 44 % of their male counterpart , because of bake - in inequality that they experience in much young year : they start work before equality legislation ; they be not able to join pension scheme back in the day ; and they make very definite choice about their caring responsibility . for all those reason , I see real injustice in this case . when he talk we through how this will be deal with in Parliament , I hope to hear that there will be a role for individual mp who have work closely with their WASPI woman to make representation on their behalf . I can assure my hon . friend that we will continue to engage closely with Parliament , as we have do to date and with the ombudsman . she quite reasonably raise gender pension gap . this government have bring in and encourage automatic enrolment — we have consult on further change that we be consider — which have lead to a narrowing of that gap as it relate to private pension . there be always more to do , but we be definitely serious about make further progress . the WASPI woman in Slough and across our country have be campaign courageously and consistently for their right for year . it be the Government ' s duty to set out exactly how they will help those woman and deliver justice . give that someone ' s entitlement to the state pension depend on how many year they have pay national insurance contribution , what will happen , under the Chancellor ' s plan to abolish nic , to those who be yet to retire ? will they still receive the state pension to which they have be contribute , or will their entitlement change ? the hon . Gentleman be a very assiduous and sensible person , and will know that party politic be at play in this issue . the Chancellor have be extremely clear that it be an aspiration to far bring down the level of national insurance across time — across several year , maybe even go beyond the next Parliament . he be quite right to say that , because we be a party that fundamentally believe in low tax . give the demographic in North Norfolk , I probably have one of the most impact constituency in the country : over 5 , 000 waspi woman have be impact there . we need to be sensible . we all recognise the financial climate that we be deal with in this country , but the Secretary of State be a very decent man , and this weekend , the Prime Minister intimate that we have always try to right injustice in this country . WASPI woman will be watch this debate ; can the Secretary of State at least throw they a lifeline from the Dispatch Box , and give some sort of commitment that we in this country will do everything we possibly can to support as many WASPI woman who have be impact as we can ? the important point be that we must carefully consider the report in its entirety — not just one aspect of it , but all aspect . I have undertake to the House to do that without undue delay . the ombudsperson be establish to decide when thing be not necessarily illegal , but have be do in a way that involve malpractice and be wrong , and to decide when a person in the middle need to come forward and say , " you need to sort this out . " that be exactly what the ombudsperson have now say : their judgment be clear that maladministration happen . there be a question as to whether what be do be illegal or not ; in the event , it be not . rather than hide behind court judgment , will the Minister apologise on behalf of the Department for the maladministration ? also , will he at least commit to a remedy ? I be not say what that remedy have to be , but will he give reassurance that a remedy will be find ? those be two easy thing that he should be able to do now . the hon . Gentleman suggest that we be hide behind the court case . I have explain the relevance of those case and the conclusion to which both the High Court and the Court of Appeal come in 2019 and 2020 . we be not hide behind anything ; in fact , as the hon . Gentleman know , because I read out the quote early , on Thursday 21 March — last Thursday — the chief executive of the ombudsman say on Sky News : " the Government , the DWP , completely co - operate with our report , with our investigation , and over the period of time we have be work they have provide we with the evidence that we ask for . " WASPI woman in my constituency have campaign relentlessly for many year , and I pay tribute to all of they , particularly Rosie Dickson , who have do so much at various event around Glasgow , and who come down to London to put her case directly in Parliament . WASPI woman be watch this debate , and when the Minister say that the Government will carefully consider thing , they hear , " More delay . " what they hear be that they will not get the money to which they be entitle , and that too many more woman will die before they see a penny from this Government . when will they receive their money ? give that the report be publish as recently as last Thursday , it be a bit of a stretch to suggest that I should have come to this Dispatch Box with a fully form set of proposal of the sort that the hon . Lady may wish for . I think that what her constituent and other want be a Government who look at the report very carefully , give great consideration to the complex issue involve and the report ' s finding , and engage closely with Parliament , exactly as we do with the ombudsman . the Government have to be drag kick and scream to even acknowledge the injustice do to thousand of innocent postmaster . this , too , be an incredible injustice . million of woman bear in the 1950 have be betray . some 3 . 5 million woman have be affect ; one die every 13 minute , and we have be in this Chamber for an hour . some 28 , 000 people have sign the letter from the WASPI campaign to the Leader of the House ask for an urgent debate and series of vote on compensation option , include that propose by the all - party parliamentary group on this issue . this injustice can not carry on any long . the Secretary of State have seek to avoid answer the question of when a decision will be make . " in due course " be not good enough , and neither be " without undue delay " . when will it happen ? when will we get a debate on the issue , and a vote on proper compensation package ? the hon . Gentleman have be here long enough to know that he should not ask I question at the Dispatch Box about when debate may or may not occur ; those matter be typically handle by the usual channel , include those in his party and mine . it be quite extraordinary that he should try to get I to set out a timetable for debate . many of these thing will be a matter for Parliament , rather than the Government . however , he be right to raise Horizon , and I be very proud of the fact that this Government have act at speed on that , and bring forward legislation to make sure that people get the money and reparation that they deserve . at the beginning of the Secretary of State ' s statement , he say something that be clearly wrong . he say that woman clearly have not " lose out " . they have . thousand in my constituency have lose out financially , through no fault of their own . they plan for their retirement on the basis of out - of - date information . they be then in effect penalise for take on caring responsibility — for provide the good kind of childcare for their grandchild , and allow their child to work and pay taxis . all that be disrupt by the collective failure of the state . as have be say , many have die before justice be deliver . for year , those of we who seek justice for the WASPI woman have meet the same response , which be that we have to wait for the ombudsman ' s report . we now have the report , so will the Secretary of State now comply , apologise to the woman , and pay compensation to they , as recommend in the report ? the hon . Gentleman refer to my mention of there have be no direct loss ; that be a conclusion draw by the ombudsman in his report . as to how quickly we can proceed , I simply remind he that the report be publish on Thursday , and it be Monday afternoon . these be complex matter , and it be right and proper that they be consider in detail very carefully , and that there be appropriate engagement with Parliament , exactly as there be with the ombudsman . in my constituency of Birmingham , Hall Green , I have 4 , 760 WASPI woman , who have be campaign tirelessly for pension justice . give that the report have now be publish , will the Secretary of State commit to a timeline that will make sure that they be adequately and swiftly compensate for the harm that they have suffer ? as the hon . Gentleman will know , that be a question that in various form have now be ask a dozen or more time . the answer will always be consistent : there be no desire to delay matter , and there will be no undue delay in our deliberation . there can not be a Member of this House who have not meet woman affect by the issue or waspi campaigner , and who have not be move by their awful story , and the pain that they have be through as a result of the maladministration by successive government . anyone watch this lengthy , convoluted statement from the Secretary of State will be leave confused about what will happen now . could he tell we , in word of one syllable , when woman who be victim of this maladministration can receive the compensation that they deserve ? with great respect to the right hon . Gentleman , that be just another version of the same question about timing , and I have give a very clear answer on that . I have hear many Ministers say from the Dispatch Box that they be work at pace , or that there will be no undue delay in deal with scandal . this be a real opportunity for Parliament . the ombudsman lay this report before Parliament for a very good reason : he do not think that the Department for Work and Pensions would accept the recommendation on maladministration . if a Back Bencher table an amendment to a Government Bill that seek to implement the ombudsman ' s recommendation , the Government would support it , wouldn ' t they ? it would be a little bit of a stretch to comment on , let alone support , an unknown amendment to an unknown bill . the WASPI campaign have ask I to emphasise its annoyance about how often Government Ministers , when talk about these issue , attempt to muddy the water by refer back to the unsuccessful litigation to reverse the increase to the state pension age , or to claim direct discrimination . that be not litigation by the official WASPI campaign , and I be sure that its member be annoy to hear a senior Labour Front Bencher do the same thing on the radio last night . will the Minister take this chance to assure the WASPI campaigner from the Dispatch Box that go forward , Government Ministers will not attempt to muddy the water by refer back to now irrelevant litigation , and will instead focus on how to implement the ombudsman ' s recommendation ? the hon . and learn Lady will know about legal matter . I do not think that I can accept that the litigation , particularly in the High Court and the Court of Appeal , be just not relevant , especially as it pertain to the matter under debate . as the Secretary of State rightly point out , this report have be five year in the offing . his Department have know that it be come for an awful long time . it must also have know that it be possible that compensation would be recommend . I be sure that he run his Department in a prudent fashion , and will have set aside contingency funding for that eventuality . can he tell we how much ? once again , the hon . Gentleman be try to draw I into form conclusion prematurely about a complex report that need a great deal of study and consideration . that be what we will give it . these 1950 woman have be shockingly let down by Westminster . they have fight on this issue for year and year . instead of the Secretary of State properly acknowledge the failing that the ombudsman highlight and do " the right thing " , as the ombudsman ' s chief executive officer say , it feel as though he have come here today with precisely nothing to say . it feel as though he be try to gaslight the WASPI woman . it be a disgrace , and shame on the Labour party for go along with this charade . this terrible , protract injustice have devastate the life of so many woman . it be time to give they the justice that they deserve . give they their compensation now , before many more of they die wait . I can reassure the hon . Lady that we have take this entire situation extremely seriously . the House will have hear the remark by the ombudsman ' s CEO about the quality of my Department ' s engagement with the ombudsman . I have also say that we provide more than 1 , 000 page of evidence to the investigation . I have reassure the House that we will carefully consider the finding of the report , will not unduly delay our response , and will engage appropriately with Parliament , exactly as we have do with the ombudsman . I must first declare my interest as a 1950s woman . the Secretary of State absolutely know that real hardship be cause for some woman in this age group in 2011 when the former Chancellor , George Osborne — back by Conservative and Lib Dem Members — fast - forward the change . as the ombudsman say , maladministration in the communication of the state pension age result in claimant lose opportunity to prepare . woman affect will be very disappointed by the Secretary of State ' s statement , especially as the first stage of the ombudsman ' s report in 2021 highlight DWP failing . can he please be more precise than say " no undue delay " ? in which month can we expect a proper government response ? that be once again a question about the timing , and I have give a clear response on that . I have give an assurance to the House that there will be no undue delay in our approach to these matter . that be the answer to the hon . Lady ' s question . may I say to the Secretary of State that he need to read the room ? let we remember that the ombudsman have say there have be maladministration . there be consensus across the Chamber that compensation should be pay . this be about woman who pay national insurance in anticipation of receive a pension , who be hit with the bombshell that their pension be be defer — in some case , by up to six year — with only 15 month ' write notice . can we imagine what would happen in this place if it be announce that private sector pension be be put back by six year ? rightly , there would be outrage , and there should be outrage about what happen to the WASPI woman . this be an entitlement take away from woman , who have a reasonable expectation of retire deny to they . the Government should have recognise the failing and should have compensate those 3 . 8 million woman year ago . now that we have the determination of maladministration , let we ensure that this be not another Horizon or contaminate blood story and that the Government come back at pace with firm proposal that the House can discuss after the Easter recess . order . can people focus on their question , please ? that would be really useful . as the right hon . Gentleman will know , I be fully aware of the report ' finding . as he will know , they raise many question , which we need to look at carefully . we will not delay in so do , but that be why I have come to assure the House that we will do exactly that and engage with Parliament in an appropriate way . this interim statement feel like a non - statement . it speak about clarity but offer none at all to WASPI woman or member of the House . I repeat what many across the Chamber have say : on what day and in what month can we expect a full statement ? waspi woman up and down the country expect that full statement . the hon . Gentleman raise the question to which by now I have probably respond two dozen time . the answer remain the same : we will look at these matter extremely carefully and diligently , which be what everybody who have an interest in they would expect we to do . the report be publish as recently as Thursday , and it be now Monday . we will look at these issue very carefully indeed , and there will be no undue delay . we will ensure that we interact with Parliament in an appropriate fashion , as we do with the ombudsman . the Secretary of State talk about time , but it be nearly a decade since the start of the WASPI campaign , which have include rally , protest , court case , thousand of meeting to lobby mps , and 273 , 000 woman die . those who remain can perhaps see some light at the end of the tunnel . I say " some light " , because the ombudsman should have go far both on the impact that DWP malpractice have have and on the recommend compensation . however , it look like that light be actually a train , with the Chancellor and the shadow Chancellor in control . after all that those woman — that include my constituent , who be one of the test case in the report and at time have treat the campaign like a full - time job — have go through , be the Secretary of State really go to ask they to wait just a little long and then break convention and ignore the ombudsman ' s finding ? give that we have not yet respond to the finding of the ombudsman , for the reason that I give — this need to be do in a diligent and careful manner — I be not sure that the hon . member ' s assertion hold water . the report be five year in the making . it cover highly complex matter , and many question be raise as a consequence . we will look at those question and those finding extremely carefully and come to the House without undue delay while engage with the House in an appropriate way , which be what we do with the ombudsman . the report ' s central finding of fact be that woman bear in the 1950 could not make informed decision about their finance and that their sense of " personal autonomy and financial control " be " diminish " , with ten of thousand plunge into poverty . the issue now be not whether those woman face injustice , because the report make it clear that they do , that they be entitle to urgent compensation from the Government , and that Parliament must " identify a mechanism " for provide appropriate redress . will the Secretary of State allay my concern that he be not propose to question the ombudsman ' s finding and that , rather , after the Easter recess , he will return to set out appropriate mechanism for redress that we can debate in the House ? we be consider the finding , which need to be consider in their entirety in order to come to a view . I pay tribute to the WASPI campaigner in Glasgow whom I meet on International Women ' s Day at the Mary Barbour statue , include the great Kathy McDonald , a fantastic constituent . surely , the Secretary of State accept that it be unacceptable in 2024 that woman continue to experience inequality in lifetime saving . woman would need to work an additional 19 year to have the same pension saving as man . inequality in lifetime saving , a gender pension gap and maladministration of state pension age change : this be a triple whammy for 1950 - bear woman . when will they get justice and equal treatment ? the hon . Gentleman conclude by ask the same question that have be ask many time . there will be no undue delay . we will look at the issue , include some of the point that he have raise , in the round , look at the entirety of the report and all its point and conclusion . he will know that we have take many step to help to increase the pension amount receive by the woman involve , include the auto - enrolment reform that we have bring forward . in the private pension space , the reform have show a dramatic improvement in the level of pension provision for woman up and down the country . the report be absolutely clear that the DWP ' s systemic failure be that it do not even draw upon and learn from its own research into the failure of communication with those woman . in addition , it do not investigate properly and respond to the complaint . that be straightforward in the report . perhaps as a warning , I say to the Secretary of State that the anger out there will be not that he have not come up with a scheme immediately , but that he have not even acknowledge the failing of his own Department . that be why the report recommend that Parliament deal with this matter . member of this House share the same feeling as the ombudsman and the WASPI woman : we have no confidence in the Department for Work and Pensions to resolve its basic failure of decade ago . the right hon . Gentleman refer to one part of the report ' s finding , where the ombudsman find maladministration but do not find injustice . the point that I have make to other in the House be that we need to look at this report properly . it be a report of 100 page , to which my Department provide 1 , 000 page of evidence , and which we receive on Thursday . the only thing I can do responsibly be come to the House and make it clear that we will act without undue delay and interact with Parliament in an appropriate manner , exactly as we do with the ombudsman . incredibly sadly , Margaret Meikle and Morag Syne be just two of a significant number of woman in my constituency and elsewhere who have die while enduring year of prevarication and inaction by successive government in relation to the maladministration of their pension . it be estimate that 40 , 000 woman have die each year who may have be eligible for compensation . nationally , 270 , 000 woman have die without ever receive an apology , justice or compensation . will the Secretary of State commit to give due consideration to compensate not only eligible woman still live , but the relative of those who have die while await justice , when this come back to the House ? I listen to the hon . Gentleman extremely carefully , and I think we owe it to all those to whom he refer and those who may be in a similar situation to take this matter extremely seriously . we will look at it very carefully , and we will come to appropriate conclusion while ensure that we interact with Parliament in an appropriate way , very much as we do in our interaction with the ombudsman . I be not sure why the Secretary of State have come to this House to tell we and WASPI woman nothing apart from that he be consider the report . he keep talk about its complexity , but one simple finding at its heart be that this Government and this Parliament must remedy the grave injustice against the thousand of WASPI woman in my constituency , and up and down this country . hon . member from across this House have ask the Secretary of State quite reasonably for a timescale , but he refuse to commit and use the word " undue delay . " will he at least accept that every time a Minister stand up and say " undue delay " or " due process " they really mean that they have no intention of address the problem , and be save face and kick the can down the road ? no , I do not accept that . I thank the Minister for his statement . the ombudsman ' s report have make recommendation base on maladministration . the 1950 woman be mislead and not notify of their right . that be a serious issue . many people have contact I ; one tell I that nearly 300 , 000 woman have pass away already . woman continue to pass away each day without see a single penny . let we not forget those who suffer physical and mental disability after a lifetime of work and childreare . many grandmother have go on to care for elderly parent or provide unpaid support so that their daughter and son can return to work in support of the UK economy . time be not on the side of the WASPI woman . they need restitution , apology and compensation . do the Secretary of State agree with my constituent ' s suggestion that the Government agree urgently to pay a reasonable lump sum , follow by an increase in their pension payment until the deficit be recoup , thereby make it easy to balance the public purse ? I certainly accept that we need to proceed in a manner that do not delay matter , for the reason that the hon . Gentleman have give . we owe it to the people to whom he refer to proceed without undue delay , by very carefully consider the report in its entirety , look very closely at its finding . I be satisfied , as be the chief executive officer of the ombudsman , that the engagement between my Department and the ombudsman be full and complete . we will continue to proceed on that basis , work closely with Parliament in the same spirit that we work with the ombudsman . to say the Secretary of State will have disappoint the 5 , 000 WASPI woman in my constituency and the many ten of thousand across the north - east would be an understatement . frankly , the Minister ' s response be shameful . I take issue with what he say about the complexity of the report . he say that it have only be five day since the 100 - page report be publish . I be not a speed reader , but I reckon that be 20 page a day . the issue raise be not bolt out of the blue ; the WASPI woman have be actively campaign for more than 10 year , highlight the issue and the potential remedy . the response we have have will not wash with the country . the Secretary of State say that there be 200 , 000 few pensioner in poverty , but 270 , 000 waspi woman have die wait for justice . how many more will die before he finally come along and implement those recommendation in full ? the answer on timing be the same one that I have give consistently throughout this statement . I have be ask that probably three dozen time , and the answer remain the same . this be a complex report — [ interruption . ] if the hon . Member will allow I to continue , that be not , as far as I be aware , a matter of dispute , even between the Government and the opposition . we both accept that it be a complex report and that we need to look very carefully at the finding in order to come to conclusion . that be exactly what we will do . despite how the Minister might wish to spin it , the ombudsman ' s report be absolutely damning , totally vindicate the WASPI woman and their campaign . too many people think — indeed , fervently hope — that they would give up and go away , but they pick the wrong fight with the wrong woman . I congratulate Ann Greer and the Argyll & Isles WASPI woman on never give up the fight . my hon . friend the Member for Kilmarnock and Loudoun ( Alan Brown ) have a private member ' s Bill that would require the Secretary of State to publish proposal for a compensation scheme for WASPI woman . the vehicle be there , Minister . will the Government now work with my hon . friend and support his private Member ' s Bill , so we can bring this matter to a conclusion as swiftly as possible ? I be not familiar with all the detail of the private Member ' s Bill to which the hon . Gentleman refer . whether the Government decide to support a particular Bill be clearly a matter for the usual channel and Government business manager , not for I at the Dispatch Box at this time . the WASPI website have a grim counter of affected woman ' s death and of money save by the Treasury . the current figure be 273 , 000 - plus woman and well over £ 4 billion . they be rise by the minute . how far have the consequence of the Government ' s 2022 disastrous mini - Budget affect their thinking on this matter ? if the Secretary of State will not commit to full level 6 compensation , as the ombudsman recommend , what do he have to offer Linda Gregory , my constituent bear in 1953 ? she " do the right thing , " as he say . she do her sum , get her forecast and be repeatedly assure by the DWP and HMRC that she have contribution to retire at 60 in order to look after her ail mum — before this surprise be spring on she , which have so far cost she £ 40 , 000 . with great respect to the hon . Lady , her question perfectly exemplify why it be important to look at the detail of the report . she refer to the ombudsman recommend the full level 6 compensation , but it be actually level 4 , the range between £ 1 , 000 and £ 2 , 950 . I be afraid that that piece of information be simply inaccurate . sadly , we have have a reprise of know fact , not the resolution of a manifest wrong . government frequently have to address the fault and failing of their predecessor , of whatever political hue . that be call the responsibility of be in office and it be part of the privilege of govern . equally , we have to remember that when there be an institutional failure that go across political party and Government institution , we have independent body , such as an ombudsman , to address it . in those circumstance , will the Minister first of all accept that there have be a manifest wrong and injustice , and secondly , will he commit that he will not , under any circumstance , seek to undermine the decision of the ombudsman or the direction of travel he have embark upon ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that there be a very specific purpose for an ombudsman , as indeed there be for this ombudsman . what I think be unreasonable be to take the step in logic from that to say that one should just simply , within a matter of hour , stand up and accept everything the ombudsman have put forward . what we have quite rightly say , and what I be say at the Dispatch Box today , be that we will consider these matter , the finding , the circumstance and so on in very great detail , in order to come to the appropriate decision . waspi woman in my constituency simply can not wait . in fact , as we have hear across the House , there be not a single constituency where WASPI woman can wait . there be a simple reason for that : 40 , 000 of they be die every year . over a quarter of a million have die over the 10 - year campaign . not once have they have an apology or receive any justice — and they have certainly receive no compensation . when the PHSO report be publish , both the UK Government and the Labour party deliberately fail to answer and fully guarantee that full justice and full compensation would be deliver to the WASPI woman . the simple question , which the Secretary of State have fail to answer so far , be this : can he give we a timeframe by which he will deliver an apology , justice and compensation , and can it be before the next general election ? the hon . Gentleman have be in the Chamber , I think , since the beginning of the statement — I be sure he have ; he hear the statement , hence he be ask a question — and he will know that the question he ask have be ask now probably a couple of dozen time . the answer be the same . [ interruption . ] he chunter from a sedentary position , but the answer be just the same , which be that the responsible thing to do be to look at this highly complex matter . the report be publish on Thursday . it be now Monday , early evening . it be not unreasonable to expect the Government — and indeed Parliament , because of the way the report have be lay before Parliament — to look at the detail of the report . as a Department , we give around 1 , 000 page of evidence that inform the report . there be some very important finding within it and to do it justice , we need to look at it carefully . some 6 , 900 WASPI woman in my constituency , some of whom have lose out by as much as £ 60 , 000 and many of they in dire need of compensation , will have find little encouragement in the Minister ' s statement . be it this Government ' s policy to dither , delay and deny justice until the 1950 - bear woman have die off ? I can give a very short answer to that : absolutely not . the WASPI campaign have be conduct with great dignity . they have lobby and inform all of we . will the outgoing Government and the incoming Government show these woman the respect they be due and commit to pay compensation ? I be not even ask for a timetable — just a commitment to pay compensation . before the Minister say , " I only get the report last Thursday , " I point out that if he have listen to the PHSO evidence to the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee , he would have know that the writing be clearly on the wall and that compensation be go to be in the report . what I be not really clear about be why the hon . Gentleman be urge I and the Government to draw a premature conclusion on the basis of — [ interruption . ] no , it would be premature . as he point out , the report arrive on Thursday . it be now Monday , very early evening . it be complicated , so it be absolutely right and proper that we look at it very carefully and in great detail . it be only right and proper that we do that for the people who be concern with this matter . that be precisely what we will do . we will act without undue delay . we will make sure that we engage with this House in an appropriate fashion , as we do with the ombudsman himself . the expression " Justice delay be justice deny " have never seem more appropriate , with so many thousand of WASPI woman wait for justice to be deliver and die in the process . it be not just the five year wait for the ombudsman ' s report , but the year before that jump through the hoop of the DWP complaint process and the independent case examiner . as well as deliver swift compensation , will the Secretary of State ' s Government look at fix the system that have delay , for the good part of a decade , the delivery of justice for WASPI woman ? we will look closely at the report and we will , no doubt , draw many conclusion as a result of that process of careful examination of the finding and the point make within the report . my commitment to the House be that we will do that without undue delay and that we will also engage appropriately with Parliament as part of that approach . Investigatory Powers ( Amendment ) Bill [ Lords ] consideration of Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee [ Relevant Documents : correspondence between the Joint Committee on Human Rights and the Home Secretary , on the Investigatory Powers ( Amendment ) Bill , report to the House on 6 March and 22 March . ] New Clause 1 - report on the Prime Minister ' s engagement with the Intelligence and Security Committee " after section 240 of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 insert — " 240A Report on the Prime Minister ' s engagement with the Intelligence and Security Committee ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must publish a report about the Prime Minister ' s engagement with the Intelligence and Security Committee in relation to the investigatory power regime and lie the report before Parliament . ( 2 ) the report must be publish within six month of the passage of the Investigatory Powers ( Amendment ) Act 2024 , and annually thereafter . " " — ( Dan Jarvis . ) this new clause would require the Secretary of State to publish a report on the engagement between the Prime Minister and the Intelligence and Security Committee , include any meeting hold , in relation to the investigatory power regime . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the following : new clause 2 — requirement for the Secretary of State to publish an annual report on technology - enable serious and organised crime and technology - enable threat to national security — " after section 234 of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 , insert — " 234A Requirement for the Secretary of State to publish an annual report on technology - enable serious and organised crime and technology - enable threat to national security ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must publish a report on technology - assist crime insofar as it relate to measure set out in this Act and the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 . ( 2 ) the report must be publish within one year of the passing of the Investigatory Powers ( Amendment ) Act 2024 , and annually thereafter . " " this new clause would ensure the Secretary of State publish an annual report on technology - enable serious and organised crime and technology - enable threat to national security insofar as it relate to measure set out in this Act and the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 . new clause 3 — Prevention of torture or cruel , inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment — " ( 1 ) the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) before section 260 ( and the cross - head before that section ) , insert — " Prevention of torture or cruel , inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment 259A Prevention of torture or cruel , inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment no public authority may take any action , whether retention , examination , disclosure , hand over to any overseas authority or any other action authorise by this or any other enactment , in relation to material obtain in accordance with the provision of this Act if the public authority know or believe that action — ( a ) would result in torture or cruel , inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment , or ( b ) present a real risk of result in torture or cruel , inhuman , or degrade treatment or punishment . " " new clause 4 — member of Parliament : interception and examination of communication and equipment interference — " ( 1 ) the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 26 ( target interception warrant and target examination warrant : member of Parliament etc . ) , after subsection ( 2 ) , insert — " ( 2A ) the Secretary of State may not issue the warrant if it relate to communication send by , or intend for , a member of the House of Commons . " ( 3 ) in section 111 ( target equipment interference warrant : member of Parliament etc . ) , after subsection ( 7 ) , insert — " ( 7a ) a warrant may not be issue under this section if it relate to — ( a ) communication send by , or intend for , a member of the House of Commons , or ( b ) a member of the House of Commons ' s private information . " " this new clause would remove the ability of the Secretary of State to authorise the interception of the communication of , or the obtaining of communication intend for , or private information belong to , Members of Parliament . new clause 5 — interception notification for member of Parliament etc . — " after section 26 of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 ( member of Parliament etc . ) insert — " 26a interception notification for member of Parliament etc . ( 1 ) upon completion of conduct authorise by a warrant under section 26 , or the cancellation of a warrant issue under that section , a Judicial Commissioner must notify the subject of the warrant , in writing , of — ( a ) the conduct that have take place , and ( b ) the provision under which the conduct have take place . ( 2 ) the notification under subsection ( 1 ) must be send within thirty day of the completion of the conduct or cancellation of the warrant . ( 3 ) a Judicial Commissioner may postpone the notification under subsection ( 1 ) beyond the time limit under subsection ( 2 ) if the Judicial Commissioner assess that notification may defeat the purpose of an ongoing serious crime or national security investigation relate to the subject of the warrant . ( 4 ) a Judicial Commissioner must consult the person who apply for the warrant in order to fulfil an assessment under subsection ( 3 ) . " " this new clause would require member of a relevant legislature who be target of interception to be notify after the fact , as long as it do not compromise any ongoing investigation . amendment 7 , page 3 , line 9 , leave out clause 2 . amendment 8 , in clause 2 , page 3 , line 17 , leave out " , or only a low , " . amendment 24 , page 3 , line 18 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) this section do not apply to a bulk personal dataset unless it have be publish in accordance with the Data Protection Act 2018 . " . this probe amendment would mean that individual and category authorisation for bulk personal dataset would not apply to bulk personal dataset unless they have be publish in accordance with General Data Protection Regulation ( GDPR ) set out in the Data Protection Act 2018 . amendment 9 , page 3 , line 34 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) by way of example , bulk dataset of image obtain by CCTV and bulk dataset of Facebook post be not to be consider dataset where the individual to whom the data relate could have no , or only a low , reasonable expectation of privacy . " . this be a probe amendment regard the scope of " low or no reasonable expectation of privacy " . amendment 10 , page 5 , line 7 , leave out " any dataset that fall " and insert " all dataset that fall " . this amendment would clarify that all the dataset cover by a category authorisation must be " low or no privacy " and not just some of they . amendment 11 , page 11 , line 2 , at end insert — " 226DZA Notification and review of bulk personal dataset retain under category authorisation ( 1 ) this section apply where a category authorisation have be approve by a Judicial Commissioner under section 226BB . ( 2 ) the head of an intelligence service , or a person act on their behalf , must notify the Judicial Commissioner within 28 day of a bulk personal dataset be retain or retain and examine under the category authorisation . ( 3 ) the notification under subsection ( 2 ) must include a description of the dataset and the datum it include , the purpose for which it be be use and the number of individual whose datum be contain in the dataset . ( 4 ) the Judicial Commissioner , on review any notification receive under subsection ( 2 ) , must cancel the category authorisation if the Commissioner consider that section 226A no long apply to any dataset that fall within the category of dataset describe in the authorisation . ( 5 ) the Judicial Commissioner , on review any notification receive under subsection ( 2 ) , must cancel the relevant individual authorisation if the Commissioner consider that the condition in section 226b ( 4 ) be not meet in relation to that bulk personal dataset . " this amendment would provide for ex - post facto judicial oversight of the use of category authorisation , include the condition for individual authorisation make under they . amendment 13 , in clause 12 , page 34 , leave out line 5 and 6 and insert — " ( e ) where the communication datum have be make publicly or commercially available by the telecommunications operator or postal operator " . this amendment would align the new provision with exist Communication Data Codes of Practice . amendment 12 , page 34 , leave out line 5 and 6 . this amendment would remove one of the example case where a relevant person have lawful authority to obtain communication datum from a telecommunications operator or postal operator , be where the datum have be " publish " . government amendment 3 to 6 . amendment 14 , page 36 , line 2 , leave out clause 15 . amendment 15 , to clause 15 , page 36 , line 35 , at end insert — " ( c ) the Investigatory Powers Commissioner agree with the judgment of the officer make in accordance with paragraph ( b ) " . this amendment would ensure that all use of new power in relation to internet Connection Records be subject to oversight by the Investigatory Powers Commissioner . Amendment 16 , page 38 , line 11 , leave out clause 18 . amendment 17 , page 44 , line 39 , leave out clause 21 . amendment 18 , in clause 21 , page 45 , line 3 , at the begin insert " subject to subsection ( 1A ) , " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 19 . amendment 19 , page 45 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) the Secretary of State may not give a relevant operator a notice under this section unless the notice have be approve by a Judicial Commissioner . ( 1b ) in decide whether to approve a notice under this section , a Judicial Commissioner must review the conclusion of the Secretary of State as to the matter refer to in subsection ( 5 ) and ( 6 ) " . this amendment would introduce judicial oversight of new power to issue communications provider with notice require they to notify the Secretary of State of relevant change to the service . amendment 25 , page 47 , line 28 , leave out clause 22 . this amendment be consequential on NC4 . Amendment 20 , in clause 22 , page 48 , line 13 , leave out " have the necessary operational awareness to decide whether " and insert " be either require in their routine duty to issue warrant under section 19 or section 102 or have the necessary operational experience " . this amendment would permit the Prime Minister to nominate a Secretary of State to act for the Prime Minister under this section if they be require in their routine duty to issue warrant under section 19 or section 102 of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 or if they have the necessary operational experience . amendment 21 , page 48 , line 14 , at end insert — " ( 2da ) the Prime Minister must be notify of the individual ' s decision as soon as it be reasonably practicable to do so . " . this amendment would require the Prime Minister to be notify of the decision of the designated Secretary of State as soon as be reasonably practicable . Amendment 27 , page 48 , line 21 , at end insert — " ( 2 g ) the Prime Minister may not give approval under this section unless it have be authorise by a judge of the Supreme Court . " . this amendment would require the authorisation of a judge of the Supreme Court before the Prime Minister could approve the interception of the communication of a Member of Parliament . Amendment 26 , page 48 , line 22 , leave out clause 23 . this amendment be consequential on NC4 . amendment 22 , in clause 23 , page 49 , line 13 , leave out " have the necessary operational awareness to decide whether " and insert " be require in their routine duty to issue warrant under section 19 or section 102 or have the necessary operational experience " . this amendment would permit the Prime Minister to nominate a Secretary of State to act for the Prime Minister under this section if they be require in their routine duty to issue warrant under section 19 or section 102 of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 or if they have the necessary operational experience . amendment 23 , page 49 , line 14 , at end insert — " ( 7da ) the Prime Minister must be notify of the individual ' s decision as soon as it be reasonably practicable to do so . " . this amendment would require the Prime Minister to be notify of the decision of the designated Secretary of State as soon as be reasonably practicable . amendment 28 , page 49 , line 18 , at end insert — " ( 7F ) the Prime Minister may not give approval under this section unless it have be authorise by a judge of the Supreme Court . " . this amendment would require the authorisation of a judge of the Supreme Court before the Prime Minister could approve the obtaining of communication intend for , or private information belong to , a Member of Parliament . it be a privilege to open debate on report of this important Bill . at the outset , it be worth reiterate that Labour support the Bill , which update aspect of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 . that be because it be imperative that legal framework be update to ensure that our police and security service keep up with change to communication technology . do so ensure that they be always one step ahead of criminal and malign force who seek to harm we and undermine our national security . I hope the Minister , and all member who be present in Committee , agree with I that we have a constructive debate , test the Bill ' s proportionality and robustness . some matter relate to third - party bulk personal dataset and the oversight process for the addition of new bpd to exist category authorisation have be largely resolve to the satisfaction of Labour Members , but other important matter still need to be address . I will speak first about the new clause and amendment that stand in my name , before deal with some of those table by other member . new clause 1 seek to ensure that the Secretary of State publish an annual report on the engagement between the Prime Minister and the Intelligence and Security Committee regard the investigatory power regime . a very similar amendment be table in Committee , but be withdraw after a lengthy debate on the ISC oversight arrangement do not make any meaningful progress despite helpful contribution from my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) and the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) . we table this new clause because the Government must recognise that the ISC have a vital role to play in the democratic oversight of some of the most powerful measure that the state have at its disposal to keep we safe , to intercept communication and to interfere with equipment . the ISC be and should be the only Committee of Parliament that can appropriately hold a Prime Minister to account on investigatory power . there must be accountability at the high level , and the Prime Minister be no exception . however , many member , not least member of the ISC , know that this important mechanism be not just break but have stop work altogether . not since 2014 have a Prime Minister appear before the Committee , but , when ask about successive Prime Ministers ' lack of appearance , the Minister say that such decision be above his pay grade . that might well be true , at least for now , so if the Minister can not commit himself to reinstate the convention of Prime Ministers ' appear before the Committee , the new clause would , at the very minimum , ensure that this new convention of non - attendance be review annually , and scrutinise by this House and the other place . I therefore give notice of our intention to push the new clause to a vote . do my hon . friend agree that it be not above the Minister ' s pay grade to be able to confirm that the convention and arrangement that give the ISC a particular constitutional place in the way our system work ought to operate , even if they have not do so for the last 10 year ? do he , like I , look forward to be able to hear the Minister — rather than dismiss this important concern about the dereliction of a constitutional duty — give we an assurance that this will be the case in the future ? my hon . friend have make an important point , and one with which I suspect the overwhelming majority of Members would agree . I be the Minister who take through the House the Bill that create the ISC . at the time , the intention be that it would evolve to become a very powerful Committee , but it do not absolve the entire House from some responsibility . two element be involve here . one have just be mention by the hon . Gentleman — the Prime Minister ' s appearance before the Committee — and the other be minimal redaction of the report that the Committee create . one of the problem we have encounter in recent year be excessive redaction of those report . have the hon . Gentleman any view on that ? the right hon . Gentleman have make two important point , both of which I agree with , about redaction and about the attendance of the Prime Minister . I do not think it unreasonable to expect that once a year the Prime Minister should seek to meet what be a very important cross - party Committee of this House . I should be happy to give way to the Minister should he wish to add his own view on this matter , but give the basis of my sense of where the House be and give previous debate , I think most member will agree that it be not unreasonable to ask the Prime Minister to turn up once a year . the hon . Gentleman ' s point be make more potent by the fact that the matter the ISC consider be not typically — in fact , not at all — partisan . it operate on a non - partisan basis , although of course its member be draw from both side of the House , and the material that it study be not see through a party - political prism in any way ; this Minister have engage in sensible and meaningful discussion with member of the ISC in exactly that spirit during the passage of this legislation . similarly , a meeting with the Prime Minister would be conduct in a way to which I think no Prime Minister could reasonably object . the right hon . Gentleman speak about these matter with a great deal of authority , not just as a member of the Committee but as a former Security Minister , and I think he have describe the situation very well . I hope the Prime Minister be listen ; I hope the Prime Minister accept what I consider to be the reasonable and constructive invitation that have just be extend to he by the right hon . Gentleman ; and I hope the Prime Minister do take the opportunity in the near future to sit down with the ISC and discuss what be , after all , very important matter . new clause 2 would ensure that an annual report be publish on measure in the Bill , and in the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 , to defeat and disrupt technology - enable serious organise crime and technology - enable threat to our national security . we table the new clause because we must ensure that the law be always one step ahead of those who seek to harm we . the police and the security service be not well able to protect we today with the law to counter the threat of yesterday , which be why we support this Bill to update the 2016 Act , which be now eight year old , but there be an opportunity to go far . the annual report propose in the new clause would help to ensure that any change require to primary legislation relate to investigatory power be identify and implement as quickly as possible . that would strengthen our legislative framework on national security , and weaken the capability and resolve of criminal and our adversary . I think that this be a genuine opportunity for the Government to work well with , and to constructively challenge , telecommunications operator and the wide communication technology industry on the requirement to use investigatory power — a process that would be separate from the new notice regime include in part 4 . a statutory requirement to produce an annual report on investigatory power to counter threat to our security and safety would strengthen national security , as well as strengthen the oversight and safeguarding of measure to keep we safe . those be two principle that guide this Bill and the 2016 Act , and that be why we will seek to push the new clause to a vote later this evening . I hope that this evening will end with a measure of agreement . on the subject of the tech company , I understand from information I have receive that Apple , techUK , the Information Technology Industry Council and the Computer & Communications Industry Association have express concern . be the shadow Minister aware of their concern and what this mean for their ability to administrate and do their work , and do he agree that what we have tonight be a consensus that protect not just they but ordinary member of society ? I know that the hon . member take these matter incredibly seriously , and he have raise an important point . to be absolutely fair to the Minister and to his Department , I know that this be a matter that the Government have consider very carefully , and that there have be an extensive process of consultation with a range of tech company — I have meet a number of they myself — but I think it only fair to conclude that while of course there be important contribution to be make by tech company to this debate , these be ultimately matter for the Government and the House to determine . have say that , new clause 2 would provide a helpful and constructive mechanism for the Government , and we have table it in a genuine attempt to be helpful and to monitor very closely the significant challenge that our national security face from serious and organised crime as a consequence of rapid development in technology . I thank the hon . gentleman for the spirit in which he have address this issue , and he deserve a proper response . there be a valid concern that this be a process of engagement with tech company , and there need to be a partnership . I will be frank with he : I do not support new clause 2 , for the very simple reason that the way in which this interaction take place have evolve a lot , even in the two year that I have be in post . I suspect that during the four or five year that this House will supervise the Bill , under the next government and in the five year beyond that , the interaction will evolve again . what concern I be that we could write into law a system of oversight and regulation that do not properly address the way in which tech company be involve in this area . therefore , the good answer be to have a more iterative process , which I have no doubt the fantastic civil servant with whom I have the privilege to work will adapt . whoever take over from I in 20 or 30 year ' time will no doubt want to iterate that as well . I be grateful to the Minister for clarification on the response to new clause 2 . he understand that we have table it because we genuinely think that it be a mechanism that — let we be honest about it — would not be particularly onerous for the Government , and would be helpful in focus mind across Government . I completely agree with the point he make about his civil servant , who have be excellent throughout the passage of the Bill . we just happen to differ on this issue , because the opposition think that the new clause would provide a useful forum for the Government to consider the challenge . he be absolutely right about the rapid evolution of technology , and we think it would be no bad thing to condense Government think into a report that would be issue on an annual basis . I thank the hon . gentleman for give way again . may I address the iterative issue that the Minister and he both raise ? it be not just the development of technology that be important here ; it be also about the development of other country ' security system . for example , the Germans be put in place law that require end - to - end encryption — the very thing that we be worried about — so we will have to manoeuvre over the course of the come year to make sure that what we do fit not just with the technology company , but with what our ally be do . that be a very important point , and I completely agree . these be complex and difficult matter of public policy , and I completely understand that none of this be easy from the Minister ' s perspective . however , if the right hon . Gentleman do not mind my saying so , his point strengthen the case for new clause 2 , because we think it would provide a useful mechanism for the Government to track the development of these important matter , but also provide a mechanism for member of this House to hold the Government to account on they . I be very grateful for the point he have make . before turn to amendment 24 on bpd , which stand in my name , I would be very grateful if the Minister could say whether any progress have be make on arrangement to notify the Investigatory Powers Commissioner when add new bpd to exist category authorisation . it might not be in the Bill , but we think that even a reference to it in the IPC ' s annual inspection would be helpful progress on this matter . the Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham and I have discuss that , and I would be grateful if the Minister could say something about it . I acknowledge the amendment on bpd that be table by the hon . member for Cumbernauld , Kilsyth and Kirkintilloch East ( Stuart C . McDonald ) . both of our party have concern about the definition of " low or no expectation of privacy " for bpd , which we debate in a pretty constructive fashion on Second Reading and in Committee . however , Labour do not oppose the concept of " low or no expectation of privacy " for bpd , which be why we will not support amendment 7 , which be table by the SNP spokesman . instead , amendment 24 , which stand in my name , seek further clarification on how " low or no expectation of privacy " will be apply to bpd , with the aim that the parameter must be as clear as possible for the House to understand . in Committee , the Minister use the Panama paper as an example of leak and widely republish material be define as a BPD with a low or no expectation of privacy . I understand why the Minister choose to use that example , but most other leak document contain personal information do not attract anywhere near the same level of medium attention . again , I would be grateful if the Minister take this opportunity to provide another example of information from a leak without widescale press coverage that would be suitable for the designation of a bulk personal datum set with a low or no expectation of privacy . as always , the hon . Gentleman be quite right to highlight the area I touch on . the important thing about the Panama paper be that they change . they would have enjoy a high level of privacy , but with republication they become " low / no " . it would not be right to say that any leak document enjoy " low / no " , but the law should reflect the reality of the datum that be currently be hold . when datum go from be secret to be effectively public , it would be absurd to hold the intelligence service to a different standard from that which would apply to any of we , who would be able to access it on a website . that be a very useful clarification , and I thank the Minister for it . I accept what the Minister have just say , but where be the threshold for publicity ? as he say , the Panama paper be widely distribute in the public domain , but somebody ' s Facebook feed might be put into the public domain . if it get into the national newspaper and on the internet , or it be share by a certain number of people , do we then determine that it be in the public domain ? we need to be very careful about this . my right hon . friend be undoubtedly right : we do need to be very careful . in the end , the Government have to take a view about where they draw the line . these be very difficult decision that have to be make . we have really useful and constructive debate in Committee about where the line should be draw , but the issue will no doubt continue to be debate in the future . before I draw my remark to a close , I will briefly speak to other amendment on the Order Paper , include those table by my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham , other member of the ISC , and the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) . we support amendment 23 , which stand in the name of my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham . it be very similar to the amendment we propose in Committee regard the Prime Minister ' s delegation to a Secretary of State to issue a warrant to interfere with equipment relate to a member . the amendment set out that the Prime Minister must be inform of a decision take by a designated Secretary of State on their behalf as soon as the circumstance that prevent the Prime Minister from approve a warrant in the first place have pass . we believe that the Prime Minister ' s overall involvement in those warrant must be retain , even if it be retrospective in designate case , so it be a positive step that the Minister say he would look into include such a provision in the statutory guidance , in response to the very sensible point make by the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings . however , we believe this do not go far enough , when this important notification arrangement should be on the face of the Bill . this House should consider as many scenario as possible when it come to arrangement for prime ministerial power delegation on investigatory power , even if scenario of Cabinet member desperately try to undermine the Prime Minister by any mean possible perhaps belong more appropriately in " House of Cards " or " the Thick of it " . [ interruption . ] I be sure that Conservative Members would have no idea about those kind of activity ; I be happy to take their word for that . but these be important matter , and we must seek to legislate carefully . the amendment table by the ISC be thoughtful and constructive , and I hope that , even at this late stage , the Government will consider accept they . I will move on briefly to new clause 3 , which stand in the name of the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden . I first want to take the opportunity to pay tribute to his long - stand work on these incredibly important matter . some member will know that I have occasionally work with he on challenge the UK Government on the use of intelligence in foreign country that have result in torture . Britain ' s role in the world to lead by example be define by our action , and we therefore think that new clause 3 raise important issue of accountability when share intelligence with foreign government that could result in torture , not least in relation to the parameter of the decision - make process by Foreign Secretaries . new clause 3 also raise important question about the sufficiency of the Fulford principle to ensure that there be not merely a presumption that these decision be take in accordance with the Human Rights Act 1998 and the european convention on human right . the Government will always need to carefully consider the nuance and the risk of inaction when there be a clear and credible threat to life . we hope that they will reflect carefully on the important principle put forward in new clause 3 , and I hope that the Minister will consider come back to the House with their conclusion . to conclude , this important Bill have demand strong and careful scrutiny through its journey in the other place and in this House . our personal liberty and our national security depend on it . it be in the national interest to get it right and to ensure that legislation like this be both appropriate and proportionate in its scope . it must also be effective in maintain the power that our police and security service already have to disrupt and defeat criminal and malign actor who seek to harm we and undermine our way of life . I hope that the Minister will listen carefully to the point make by Opposition Members and to the other right hon . and hon . member speak after I , all of whom will be work in the national interest and want to ensure that the Bill protect both our safety and our liberty . I start from the perspective that we be highly likely to regret some element of this Bill within the next 10 year , and I will come back to that in a moment . I will also start by commend the Minister for Security , my right hon . friend the Member for Tonbridge and Malling ( Tom Tugendhat ) , for his approach . it have not always be like this . the real precursor of this Bill be the Data Retention and Investigatory Powers Act 2014 , all stage of which be take in one day because the Government of the day claim it as an emergency , even though they have spend three month think about it and even though they take nine month to implement it afterwards , such be the emergency . as a result , I challenge it in the High Court , and it be strike down . the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 , which this Bill amend , be in effect the replacement for that . it be not a terrific improvement , but it be an improvement . as I say , the Minister ' s approach to this Bill have be much more democratic , much more open and much more valuable . I say that we be not go to be partisan in this debate , and the shadow Minister start in that vein , but my right hon . friend have be highly contentious about the Bill that I take through the House . Bear in mind that it have pre - legislative scrutiny with a Committee of both Houses , it have at least three report in advance of be consider by this House , and it be debate in this House at length , in the same spirit that I mention early , and many amendment be table , many of which be accept by the Government . I have describe the pretty full consideration and scrutiny that it receive , which be why it be such an essential piece of legislation , as the Minister will confirm , and be use by the security service and the police every day . I will not go over it again , but the High Court and the Court of Appeal come to a different view from that of my right hon . friend , I be afraid , and that be why the legislation be strike down . some of the element of this Bill be not very wise . the Opposition have agree that the pre - notification of tech company will act to drive business away from our shore . that is , as I say early , the opposite of what the german Government be do , and we be go to have to modify our approach to deal with some of our ally along the way . I also have serious concern about the bulk collection of datum , which the Scottish National party have table an amendment on . I think it be Stalin who once say that , at a certain point , quantity have a quality all of its own . that be certainly true of information technology and bulk datum . it be interesting to listen to the early brief debate on so - call " no expectation " and " low expectation of privacy " , by the way . those be completely different thing . they sound similar but they be completely different , as will become clear , I suspect , when the SNP spokesperson speak to that amendment . even today , " low expectation of privacy " datum can tell a Government with quite primitive software vast amount about our life and about what we be do every minute of every day , but with artificial intelligence that be go to be multiply many time and become much more powerful than before . to give colleague a feel for how this might work , let we look back to the covid period , which in some sense be almost orwellian . the Government have three different disinformation unit of various sort that look at everybody ' s comment . if someone comment on flaw in the modelling of the virus , question where the virus come from or quite properly state that the vaccine do not stop transmission — it stop death , but it do not stop transmission — this would lead to all their low or zero expectation of privacy documentation and all their online stuff be monitor by the Government . a number of member of this House be monitor on that basis — in my view , entirely wrongly . that be all within the law as it stand then , so it be not massively important , but it nevertheless demonstrate the mindset of Whitehall when deal with these thing . today , however , nine out of 10 of we — if not more — carry a smartphone . that make it easy to access our shopping habit , our purchase history , our bank record , our automatic number plate recognition record , and on and on and on . do we really want the agency of Government to be able to peer into all that datum ? it belong to people who be , remember , entirely innocent of any crime . our entire approach to law and order in this country have be to focus on people against whom there be a reasonable expectation or a reasonable suspicion , not to monitor everybody . it seem to I that this intrusive surveillance be a dangerous route to take and , as I say , I think we might regret it within 10 year , because the power of artificial intelligence will make this bulk datum much more informative than we be conscious of today . I worry about it . I do not put an amendment down on it because other have do so , but it be something that we must concern ourselves with in the long run . one of my two principal concern today be how the Bill relate to the expansion of power around the surveillance of member of this House . until 2015 , it be widely understand that the Wilson doctrine protect mp ' communication from interception . this protection be repeat in unequivocal term by successive Prime Ministers — even Tony Blair , who be not someone with a great reputation for worry about Members ' civil liberty . despite clear and unambiguous statement that mp and peer would not be place under surveillance , the Investigatory Powers Tribunal hold in 2015 that the doctrine have be unilaterally rescind by the Government . in an attempt to ease concern , the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 create a regime — the one we have now — whereby a Secretary of State must first secure the approval of the Prime Minister and a judicial commissioner before authorise the interception of an MP ' s communication . frankly , I have serve under nine Prime Ministers as a Member of Parliament , and I can not say I be happy that all of they would have take a very responsible approach to exercise this power . this be an almost judicial power that be give to a person whom it be our job to challenge and hold to account every day . the Bill seek to expand the list of people who can sign off on the surveillance of mps way beyond that , from the Prime Minister to effectively five secretary of State . there be a long argument in the Lords and in Committee about introduce word such as " unable " or " unavailable . " I think they have in mind that Boris Johnson be sick and lay up for a month or so and perhaps could not act in that capacity . even by that logic , we do not need five secretary of State to be able to deputise , unless we be imagine a mass - casualty event in the Cabinet . frankly , this seem far more like a precursor to a general loosening of the policy than a serious and sensible protection of the ability to sign this off . I worry about that , and I do not like it at all . I do not like the idea of the surveillance of mps except under incredibly strict circumstance . I be not casually ask for mp to be somehow above the law , not at all . this protection be vital to safeguard what we do . we be here to hold the Government to account , not the other way round . the relationship between constituent and their elect representative be sacrosanct . it be the bedrock upon which our representative democracy stand , and constituent expect that , as they should . but it be not just constituent who rely on the sanctity of their communication with member . it be truer and more obvious today than at almost any time in my 30 - odd year in this House that , in do our job , we deal with campaigner — think of the sub - postmaster — journalist , whistleblower , victim of injustice who may be terrify of be identify and , of course , other member of Parliament , and that be just a few . they all trust we to keep what they tell we absolutely rock solid , private and confidential . this Bill will do nothing but far undermine people ' s trust in bring serious matter to our attention . the Horizon scandal , Mid Staffs , sweetheart tax deal with large company , the mistreatment of prisoner by the British Army , involvement in rendition and torture , and dishonest briefing for immoral war — every single one of they be bring to our attention by a whistleblower who , in many case , face criminal prosecution if they be discover . be people likely to continue blow the whistle with a loosening of the Wilson doctrine ? I do not think so . if I have my way , I would amend the Investigatory Powers Act to prevent communication to and from member of Parliament from be intercept at all . at the very least , I would change this proposal to require that the Prime Minister secure the approval of a Supreme Court judge before sign off on any warrant permit the interception of a Member ' s communication . that would take the process completely outside the normal approach under which the Investigatory Powers Tribunal and all the machinery around it routinely say yes to request , day in and day out . call for , allow or permit the interception of the communication of a Member of this House or the other place ought to be something clearly extraordinary in the life of a Prime Minister . a Supreme Court judge be far more likely also to have the authority require to face down poorly justify demand , which have not always happen in the past . the Executive should not wield the power to order the surveillance of member of this House at their sole discretion . the very senior judiciary should provide a vital check on that power . the hon . member for Barnsley Central ( Dan Jarvis ) highlight another concern , which be torture . successive british government — this be evidence , so it be not an assertion — have acquiesce in the abuse of political detainee by foreign regime . this must stop . it have be assert that Jagtar Singh Johal be recently detain and torture by indian authority as a result of british intelligence , which , if true , be harrowing , but the story be depressingly similar to story that we know be true . during the so - call war on terror , countless prisoner be torture by foreign government after the British Government provide they with information . the 2018 ISC report on detainee mistreatment and rendition find : " the Agencies also suggest , plan or agree to rendition operation propose by other in 28 case . we have see a further 22 case where SIS or MI5 provide intelligence to enable a rendition operation to take place ; and 23 case where they fail to take action to prevent a rendition " . I suspect this include the Binyam Mohamed case , the Rangzieb Ahmed case and the Abdel Hakim Belhaj case , for which the Prime Minister have to apologise . we should be ashamed of all these thing . I be afraid that , each year , we be see more case in which the UK seek to share intelligence despite a real risk of torture . there be no doubt that our intelligence agency do a difficult and sometimes dangerous job , but get mix up in torture do nothing to keep we safe . it undermine the civilised value that we stand for , and we be in a battle of value in the so - call war on terror . it be incredibly important that we maintain the high value that we expect . my new clause 3 would prevent the repeat of such travesty , as no public authority would be able to hand over information to an overseas authority where , as a result , there be a possibility of " torture or cruel , inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment " . the conservative party have a proud legacy of stand up against torture , go back to Margaret Thatcher . under she , we pass the Criminal Justice Act 1988 , which make torture , anywhere in the world , an offence under the law . the Minister have a difficult job ; there be no two way about it . the task face by the Home Office , and indeed the agency , in deal with the threat to this country be incredibly difficult but , from time to time , we have historically slip from the standard we view as essential to our national character — a proper understanding and belief in the rule of law , and abide by that rule of law almost irrespective of the circumstance in which we find ourselves . the first test — the first criterion — when consider a Bill such as this should be , " do we always obey the rule of law ? do the Bill encourage government always to obey the rule of law , whether they be deal with suspect abroad or with subject at home ? " first , let I put on record the apology of the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) , who chair the Intelligence and Security Committee . unfortunately , he be attend Lord Cormack ' s funeral , and I think it be important to put the reason why he be not here on the record . first , let I refer to new clause 1 , which stand in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley Central ( Dan Jarvis ) , and say that it be disappointing that we have to have this debate . I be the long serve member of the ISC , have be on it for nearly eight year . it be a serious Committee ; its member take its work seriously and work collegiately . we work on the basis that we support the work of our security service , recognise the difficult job they sometimes have and the dangerous work they do , but that we be also there to provide scrutiny and oversight . if anyone care to look at our report over the year , they will see that they be not only thorough , but forensic in their approach . so it be disappointing that the current Government and the previous few have downplay the Committee ' s role . on Second Reading , I refer to the scrutiny of our intelligence service be a bit like a three - legged stool , as we have the Investigatory Powers Commissioner , the tribunal and the ISC . together , we should be an effective mechanism to reassure the public that there be oversight of our security service . this be important because the work they do can not be discuss in open session , and that mechanism give the confidence that in a parliamentary democracy , where we take freedom of speech and democracy seriously , we have that oversight . the problem with the Government be that , for whatever reason , they have set out their course to undermine our work — I put that on the record . the new clause will say that the Prime Minister should attend our meeting . it should not be necessary to include such a provision — I believe you serve on the ISC at one stage , Madam Deputy Speaker , and so you understand the work we do — but we have a situation where it seem this be see as not important . the only one in recent time who offer a meeting be the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) , but that be because she be look for friend in the last die day of her Administration , so I do not think it count . again , I do not understand the reason behind this . the wall on the way into our office have various photograph of the Committee — you be on one of they , Madam Deputy Speaker — with various Prime Ministers of the day . but this be not about that ; it be about the Prime Minister of the day know exactly what we be do and our be able to raise thing directly in our secure setting , which we do . that be important , but there be also a wide point to be make about how we scrutinise our security service and give the public that opportunity . the amendment I have table also stand in the name of five other member of the Committee , and we support this Bill . will we be back in a few year ' time with another Bill ? yes , we will , because , as be say by my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley Central , technology be change very fast and we will have to react to it . when the original Bill be take through by the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) , he recognise that it would not be set in tablet of stone and that this new Bill would be require . the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) be right to say that AI will set some other test that we have not perhaps think about yet and those might have to be cover by future legislation . be we reactive as a Parliament ? we always be reactive , but this Bill be important because it will give our security service the ability to react to the ever - change world that we face . I wish to refer to two pair of amendment that relate to clause 22 and 23 , which go to the issue associate with the triple lock and the authorisation — before the right hon . Gentleman move on , I wish to pick up on his point about the need for continually keep up with the change technology . one thing that be expect when the ISC be create be that it would become , if not quite a grandees Committee , a Committee of people who know exactly what they be do and take very seriously the issue before they , include the confidentiality of what they do . at least one of the Chairmen of the ISC have complain in the past about the level of redaction of ISC report . that matter in the context of keep up with the time because the only way the House of Commons have of understand the ISC ' s opinion be by read its report , and if member be read a lot of blank or black line , they will not learn very much . I understand the right hon . Gentleman ' s frustration , but , as Madam Deputy Speaker know , there be good reason for those redaction . the Committee do not just agree to everything be redact ; a thorough process take place and we have some long argument with the agency . I would not want anyone to go away think that the member of the ISC be a pushover on redact information . a lot of attention be give to why certain thing be redact from the Russia report . I be comfortable in the knowledge that the thing redact in that report could not have be put in the public domain . the main reason for this be not to save embarrassment for government or any of the individual ; it be about the ability to protect the tradecraft of our service . if we do put certain thing in the public domain , our adversary who want to do we harm would be able to work certain thing out . I assure the House that we push back hard and some redaction that have be put forward over the year have be silly , as other ISC member in the Chamber tonight will recognise . let I get back to the issue about the triple lock , which be important . the issue be sensitive because it relate to intrusion into the communication of member of this House and of devolved administration . we be talk about what be commonly know as the Wilson doctrine , but , it be like a lot of thing in this age ; it be announce in 1966 , when it be about telecommunication and pick phone up , but we be in a different world now , as the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden say . we now have smartphone , and God know what be go to be invent in the next few year in term of how we communicate . as with a lot of thing , the convention be think to be the way forward , but clearly in 2015 it be find that the devolve Administrations be not cover by it and neither be mep . the Investigatory Powers Tribunal find that it have no legal enforcement at all , so it be credit to the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings and the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 that a formal process be put in place for it — that be important . currently , the 2016 Act have three layer of safeguard : the Secretary of State who ask for the warrant ; a judicial commissioner who examine the communication that be the target of interception and the type of equipment involve , if it relate to a member of a relevant legislature ; and , thirdly , the Prime Minister , who , as the final stop , have to agree this . the Bill will allow the Prime Minister to designate " up to five " Secretaries of State who can approve the warrant in the event that he or she be unable to be available . as have be raise , the obvious example be when Boris Johnson be incapacitate through covid . when we think about the issue , this measure make sense . the ISC recognise other unique situation when a Prime Minister may not be available , for example if they be abroad and secure communication be not possible . the ISC be keen that the circumstance need to be exceptional , but we accept that there be a need for the requirement . the ISC seek to ensure that the measure do not undermine any safeguard . as the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden outline , those safeguard be important . it be not be pompous or say that we want to be outside the law , but the ISC receive information and discuss sensitive issue that can have an impact on people , especially those who may have be do a disservice by the state or by other . the original Bill be quite loose and any Secretary of State could have approve the warrant , so it be important that Admiral Lord West ' s ISC amendment be accept . I be in the House of Lords on the night it be accept , and he have to get the smell salt because it be the first time he have ever have an amendment accept . the circumstance in which the Secretary of State may approve a warrant on behalf of the Prime Minister — if the Prime Minister be incapacitate or do not have access to secure communication — be now in the Bill . importantly , there be also a limit on the number of Secretaries of State who may be appoint for the purpose . only five Secretaries of State may be designate , and only those who have a responsibility for authorise equipment interference or target interception . however , amendment 20 and 22 have be propose because the Bill as draft say that a Secretary of State who have " the necessary operational awareness " can be designate to make such decision on behalf of the Prime Minister . what be " operational awareness " ? do it relate to somebody who have have a briefing ? do they know what they be do ? I be sure a lot of secretary of State , as well as junior Ministers , know about and be aware of the warrant . it be disappointing that it take some time to get the draft code of practice . for the benefit of civil servant , let I put on the record that it be important that any code of practice attach to a Bill be lay before Parliament with the Bill . we can not have a situation where Bills be discuss and we be then tell later that certain measure will be in the code of practice and think of later . I be sorry , but the Bill and any code of practice need to be lay together , so that this House and the other place have an opportunity to look at the code of practice in detail . the ISC finally receive the draft code of practice last Tuesday , follow the meeting I have on Monday with the Minister for Security . that code of practice define those who have " the necessary operational awareness " as people who have receive briefing on operational matter and of warrantry process and legal requirement . we in the ISC think that definition be entirely inadequate , because it do not prevent completely unrelated and inappropriate Secretaries of State from fulfil such a serious role . amendment 20 and 22 in my name and fellow member of the ISC ensure that only those Secretaries of State with the necessary operational experience , such as those require to issue warrant as part of their routine duty under the relevant section of the Act be permit to be designate by the Prime Minister under the triple lock . that be important , because it ensure that they be people who not only understand the system but have experience of it . that would provide the flexibility the Government require and ensure that this important power be give to secretary of State who have experience of warrantry . I and the ISC have dance around the head of a pin on this issue with the Minister and civil servant , and hon . member may ask why it be so important . as the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden have say , the situation in which this provision be use be unique . I can not speak about any example in open session , but credit to the agency that have tell we how the measure be use . as a member of the ISC , be I reassure that it be be use appropriately in the case we see ? I be . however , not to downgrade that fact , the amendment provide reassurance to member of this House , Members of devolved Parliaments and Assemblies , and other that the measure be be use proportionately and in the correct way . amendment 21 and 23 get to one of those point that irritate I . it be like a war of attrition with this government — they can not be see to back down on anything or allow anyone else any victory , no matter how small . the code of practice say that once the designated Secretary of State have authorise something , the Prime Minister " should " be inform of any decision make under the alternative approval process as soon as reasonably practicable . it do not say " will " be . I very much hope the right hon . Gentleman have bring Lord West ' s smell salt with he , because I would like to clarify the concession that Lord West get in the Lords here in the Commons . I can happily commit to strengthen the language on notification requirement in the code of practice , when it be formally bring forward in due course , to require that the Prime Minister " will " be notify of any decision under the alternative process , rather than " should " be . I welcome that , but can I hear it again and pin the Minister down a little more ? I be sure it be a massive victory , but be he give a solemn pledge to the House that the code of practice will remove the word " should " and insert the word " will " ? be that what he be agree to ? yes . victory at last — there be such power in change one word . the Minister have give a solemn undertaking on the Floor of the House that the code of practice will change the word " should " to " will " . a small victory for the ISC , but I be sure my colleague will take it in the spirit in which it be offer . I say to the Minister gently that we could have agree that the other day when we meet , but no doubt the issue that we will be vote on tonight be concentrate his mind . with that great victory under my belt and those of the member of the ISC , I turn to other amendment . new clause 3 , in the name of the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden , deal with " cruel , inhuman or degrading treatment " . I understand why he have propose the new clause . it be always worthwhile debate the issue , which run through the entire Bill . be I assure that there be process in place that protect our civil liberty ? yes , I be . however , there be occasion when thing can go wrong or people ignore they . I think they have be strengthen greatly , but the right hon . Gentleman refer to an important point . I be on the Committee in 2017 when we do the inquiry into detention and rendition . that take a long time , but it be a good report give where it get to . it unearth thing that be not pleasant but have be do in our name as a democracy . one conclusion the Committee come to be that in its view the UK tolerate action and take other that be regard as inexcusable . well , they be inexcusable , because as the report outline , we pass on information to ally who then use it . I think thing have change , and to give member an example of how the ISC can improve thing , we call for a review of the consolidated guidance surround the way that security operative should operate regard issue of rendition or torture . that lead to the Fulford principle , which I think have move on and tighten up the rule and guidance for member of our security service . that be a big movement forward . I do not think the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden will push the new clause to a vote , but it reinforce the point that if we have a situation whereby , again , we get information that be pass to one of our ally , we must ensure that those principle be uphold . be I confident that they be uphold now ? I think I be , but how do we get to that pretty damning report in 2017 ? we get there because those principle and the guidance in place be not follow . we must be vigilant about that , and over the year the right hon . Gentleman have do not only this House but the country a service through his tenacity on these subject . I will not press new clause 3 to a vote , but I table it because in 2010 - 11 David Cameron , the then Prime Minister , make a promise that there would be a review and that the issue would be investigate properly , but that never happen . the implicit undertaking be that we would not do it again , and we do it again — over and over again . that be why at some point we need to put our foot down . the problem be that whenever we put our foot down and make an absolute requirement , somebody say , for example " what about the Russians , with the terrorist attack in the last few day ? " I be afraid there come a point where we say , " we be not go to provide information if you torture people . " if we be clear about that , it help the country and probably also help the international battle with terrorism . I agree totally with the right hon . Gentleman , and I think that be where we be as a Government . certainly those be the Fulford principle — that we do not share information . again , some of the people who perhaps do not understand what our security service do , and those who want to malign their great work on our behalf sometimes say , " they be do x , y and z . " well as I know from see some example , there be occasion where we deliberately do not pass on information to our ally because of the fear that the right hon . Gentleman set out . the detention and rendition report raise that issue , and the Fulford principle now give we strong guidance . those principle have be put into being and sew into the dna of all new officer . as a result of a huge training programme , not just for exist officer but for new entrant into the service , officer now see that as an important part of their work . that be how it must be do , but it be always important to have this debate . new clause 5 would " require member of a relevant legislature who be target of interception to be notify after the fact , as long as it do not compromise any ongoing investigation . " I understand where the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden be come from but — I must be careful what I say — I do not agree , because this be not about the security service want to see what someone have order on Amazon Prime or put in their Tesco basket this weekend . there be occasion when Members of Parliament will be bring into investigation not because they have do anything wrong , but because they have be target . for example , we have a statement today about mp be target . should they know about it ? in the right circumstance , yes , so that they can take reactive measure against it . there may be situation regard member of Parliament and warrant power in which they be not the main target , but they may be a target themselves , so such a measure would be difficult . again , I will not say too much , but I think this provision be use more often than we think for those reason . it be not because member of Parliament , or member of the Scottish Parliament or the Welsh or Northern Ireland Assemblies be do thing wrong , but because increasingly those who want to harm we be target our communication . again I do not intend to press the matter , but if the ISC discuss this issue in the future , I point the right hon . gentleman to the german model . they look at something and do not always release information if it be operationally sensitive . I agree , but that then place an unnecessary burden on the system . the current process with the Secretary of State , the judicial commissioner and the Prime Minister be robust enough to ensure that people be not do this to find out what someone order on Amazon Prime this weekend or to look at their Tesco account , so I think those assurance be fine . new clause 4 would " remove the ability of the Secretary of State to authorise the interception of the communication of , or the obtaining of communication intend for , or private information belong to , Members of Parliament . " again , it be good to have this debate , but I would support such a measure for the reason I have outline . the other change in the Bill concern bulk datum . the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings cover the original investigatory power in detail , but there be now big data set hold not only by public authority but by other , and that have make it more important that our security service be able to access they . whenever we do this , however , it mean more intrusion , so let I deal with the issue of oversight in the Bill , and with the broad , more intrusive power to obtain internet connection record for the discovery of target . again , that be something that I and other ISC member totally support , but the authorisation process be internal . one stance that the ISC have take throughout all this be that if we be to give more power to our security service , there must be a balance . there will not be a situation whereby what people have see can be identify , but this power will drag in a lot of people who , as the right hon . Gentleman say early , be completely innocent . as I say , there be a need for such a power , but we think there should be more oversight from the Investigatory Powers Commissioner . therefore , the point I make about amendment 15 be important . the Investigatory Powers Commissioner ' s Office do a great job of ensure public support for what we do , but , again , there be an issue around bulk dataset . some of the example that be give to ISC member — thank must go to the Minister , who arrange a meeting for the Committee to be brief on this — make sense when it come to the issue of low or no reasonable expectation of privacy . it be burdensome , for example , to access the electoral register , but today the Government have say that somehow that be a secret document . well , that be not the case under this Bill , in which case it be important that the security service should be able to use it , rather than have to go through the warrantry process . that go to the point , which my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley Central raise early on , about the definition of " low expectation " . another perfectly legitimate reason that the security service need these measure be relate to test new AI model of learn . they need access to these new big dataset , which be out there and which company use , and the Bill will allow they to have it without go through the warrantry system . if intelligence be go to be on the front foot when it come to AI , we will have to have these big dataset that will teach the system how to do it . the problem come back my hon . friend ' s question of what be deem a low or no reasonable expectation of privacy . that be something we have consider throughout this process . one thing the ISC have consider be add to the exist category . one suggestion we put forward be that , when the agency do this , they should have to email the Investigatory Powers Commissioner to notify they that they have do it . rise — I hope the Minister be not go to intervene again . my leg might get wobbly if I have to sit down again . I might even need some smell salt . he have explain the internal system , which I be quite satisfied with , but as I say to he and his civil servant — I think other member of the ISC have also say this — it be not we that he have to convince , but the public . I thank the right hon . member for give way . I just want to assure he that I have take on board his point . I go back to the agency and assure myself of the challenge that he have raise and find what I think be a well answer than the one we look at when we be chat . I write to Sir Brian Leveson and I be delighted to say that he respond , confirm that he will pay specific oversight to this regime in the early year until he be content that it operate in the way that the ISC , the Government and the british public would expect . IPCO have take on this responsibility , which , I think , answer the question more succinctly than it would be if it be include in the Bill . well , I shall take that as half a victory . take they where you can get they ! may I just get some clarity ? that be a perfectly legitimate way of do it , and it will mean not interfere with the exist system , which be the concern of both the service and the Minister . I understand that this not as simple as an email be send . will that mean that there will be a section look at this issue in the first annual report ? if that be the case , we could at least say to the public that it be actually be consider and the promise be be follow up . the right hon . Member will understand that IPCO be operationally independent , so I will not instruct the office or speak for Sir Brian , who have be unbelievably rapid and helpful in his response today . I be sure that he will have hear the comment that the right hon . Member make and , no doubt , will want to draw attention to any area where he have any doubt at all . that would be helpful . that would give reassurance to the public and provide a test of how the system work . as I have say , I be comfortable with the process of authorisation , but the public must be comfortable with it as well . I note the right hon . Gentleman ' s proper consideration of the balance between privacy and security , which lie at the heart of the Bill , but I also recognise the Minister ' s concern that we must not make the process too unwieldy and bureaucratic . I wonder whether the right hon . Gentleman might invite the Minister to commit to a regular report go to IPCO as authorisation be make . that might be monthly , but it would at least mean that there be some iterative process of a kind that might reassure the right hon . Gentleman , I and other about that balance . I understand where the right hon . Gentleman be come from . our original idea about have an email be explain when I meet the Minister and his civil servant . I think that that would really cut across some of the process that we have in place . the suggestion that have be make would be one way of do it , but ipco already have the power to look at such thing . the only problem with do that be that we would then have to set up someone in the agency to produce another report . I do not want to do anything that hold up their work , and I think that that might do it . possibly the Minister ' s suggestion of how Sir Brian Leveson be go to do it will give the public some reassurance . let we not forget that Sir Brian have the power to take action if thing be not be do correctly . if we read his report , we can see that he be not fearful of do these thing . a fair compromise have be put forward . I think we have one and a half victory so far — I think it ' s two . no , I would not quite say it be two . hopefully , I might get another one on my other amendment , and then we can all go home happy . be this an example of my be more hardline than the right hon . gentleman ? it seem like it to I , but perhaps not . I would not have think that the right hon . Gentleman could be see as hardline on anything , pussycat that he normally be . he portray himself as hardline , but I know from work with he very closely on the ISC that he care about this information . he have refer to the Investigatory Powers Act as his baby . it have grow up a little bit and be now be bring into the modern age . I should put on the record again his dedication and work as a Minister to bring in the original Act , which be groundbreake for this country . it have stand the test of time . we know that we will be back here , so the measure will change . I have no problem with that . it be just that , as technology change , thing will change . may I finish by thank the member of our security service for the work that they do ? I also thank they for the way that they have engage with the ISC on the Bill . hopefully , with the change that have be bring forward , we can reach agreement on the Bill and our security service will have the ability to face up to the challenge that be come forward : the ever grow use of large dataset , and the more sophisticated way in which state actor and non - state actor have access to technology . that will enable the security service to do what we all want to do , which be to keep individual citizen and , just as importantly , our democracy safe . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) , who be a fellow member of the Intelligence and Security Committee . as he mention , we work collegiately , and one of the many advantage of that collegiate approach be that I do not need to repeat everything that he have just say ; I need only say that I agree with he . I realise that that be a radical approach in this place , but I will not say it all again . I will simply say that I agree with he ; he be absolutely right . his point be that , when it come to the consideration of warrant to authorise the interception of , or interference with , the communication of member of Parliament , there be huge significance to such a decision . that be the reason the Prime Minister have have to be involve in it , and it be the reason we should not widen too far the pool of deputy who , for sensible and understandable reason , as the right hon . Member explain , we now need to provide for . that be why I hope that the next concession that the Minister will make will relate to the pool of deputy , and that in the language the ISC suggest that he adopt we ensure that it be a control group , base on either current responsibility or previous experience . I be sure that we can discuss with he any change to the wording that he think be necessary , but as the right hon . member for North Durham explain , the current provision allow for only one restriction : that the member of the Cabinet in question should receive a briefing on how to conduct their warrantry responsibility . we do not think that that be restrictive enough , give the significance of this decision - make process . I be grateful to the Minister for what he have already say about notification of the Prime Minister in the process . that be a sensible change , which I welcome . I will say a few word about part 4 of the Bill , which have not yet be mention . I know that the hon . member for Cumbernauld , Kilsyth and Kirkintilloch East ( Stuart C . McDonald ) , who speak for the Scottish National party , will want to say something about that part of the Bill , which deal specifically with product notification notice and product suspension pende the review of those notice in clause 21 and 18 . there be a balance to be strike here . we of course need to avoid product change that undermine security protection . it would therefore be wrong to remove the provision altogether , as I know the hon . Gentleman will shortly advocate , but I invite the Minister to think very carefully about those clause . they have have relatively little discussion in the consideration of the Bill , but there be some danger that we overstep the mark in these part of the Bill . I invite the Minister to consider that if the power contain in part 4 be to be use , they be very significant restriction on commercial freedom . if we be go to use they , it seem to I we should require three thing . first , there should be a materiality threshold in the use of those power , so that any change would not be sufficient to cause these significant infringement on commercial freedom . it should be a material change only . secondly , there should be no indefinite hold on product development because , as I say , that be a significant infringement on commercial freedom . thirdly , there should be a way to appeal a decision to prevent the development or roll - out of a new product . it seem to I that , be we to have those restriction , that would not inhibit the Government ' s perfectly reasonable ability to stop people develop product that stop we apply the security control that we all want to see to keep we safe , and would strike the balance well between the power that the Government must have and the ability that we need commercial manufacturer and developer to have to develop new product that benefit consumer . I hope that the Minister will consider that point when he come to think about the development of the legislation , but in view of what the right hon . member for North Durham say , that be all I need to say . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . and learn Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) , and to take part in what have already be a very thoughtful debate . we also have a very constructive Committee stage , so the amendment in my name and that of my hon . friend the Member for Midlothian ( Owen Thompson ) be design first to pose some further question to the Minister , particularly in relation to the offence of unlawfully obtain communication datum , which we discuss in Committee . secondly , and perhaps more significantly , we again seek to remedy some of the serious concern that we continue to have about the Bill extend power beyond what we regard as necessary and proportionate , and the absence of sufficient judicial oversight where such judicial oversight be really require . first , and briefly , our amendment 13 build on the discussion in Committee about the offence create by the 2016 Act that will be amend by clause 12 . we argue in Committee that the so - call example of " lawful authority " for obtain communication datum in propose new subsection ( 3A ) ( e ) of the 2016 Act be an extension of the power rather than a restatement of it . the Minister counter that he be actually seek only to put exist code of practice into statute . there be obviously a line of argument that code of practice do not always necessarily comply with the law , but have go away to look at the code of practice it seem that there be a difference between what be currently in the code of practice and what be currently in the Bill . the wording of amendment 13 reflect the code ; the wording of propose new paragraph ( e ) seem potentially broad than that . the question for the Minister be why the wording be so different , and whether he can assure we that it be not mean to be interpret any more broadly than the exist exception in the code of practice . the remain amendment set out our more fundamental concern with the Bill . in particular , there be three area where we question the strength of the oversight regime : in relation to bulk personal dataset , internet connection record , and Government notice to company under clause 21 . we regard advanced judicial oversight as important and reassuring not just for member of the public but for those who be exercise the power . clause 2 on bulk personal dataset be the first example of where we believe that oversight be be unnecessarily water down . we be tell that the system of advanced judicial authorisation be cause delay and stifle operational flexibility , but to we the answer be to fix those logjam in the oversight system , not to water that system of oversight down . the case for a light - touch system of category authorisation have not be make to our satisfaction . that be why we table amendment 7 , which would take out clause 2 . at the very minimum , why not strengthen the ex post facto oversight beyond annual review and report ? amendment 11 highlight one way to do that , so that the judicial commissioner be review whether what be be do under category authorisation be lawful , cancel authorisation where that be not find to be the case , and ensure therefore that we have a clear picture of how the new power be be use . I note with interest what the Minister say about the role of IPCO , which we absolutely regard as helpful . however , it would be insufficient , and certainly less robust than our proposal in amendment 11 . as the hon . Gentleman set out , amendment 11 would strengthen the hand of the judicial commissioner , and I have some sympathy with that . my concern be that his propose new subsection ( 4 ) say : " the Judicial Commissioner , on review any notification receive under subsection ( 2 ) , must cancel the category authorisation if the Commissioner consider that section 226A no long apply to any dataset that fall within the category of dataset " . I wonder why he think that the wrongful inclusion of one individual dataset in the category would invalidate the category as a whole , because that seem to I to be the effect of what that part of his amendment would do . I be grateful to the right hon . and learn Member for that intervention . he possibly make a fair point . if I recall correctly , the wording of that propose new subsection be borrow from another part of the Bill . I might be wrong about that ; I need to go away and have a look . I suppose the argument would simply be that if a category authorisation be to any extent be abuse , it be right that the category authorisation be cancel , and if somebody want to come back with something similar , they can do so . however , I be not without sympathy to his point . I take it in the spirit in which it be intend , and will reflect upon it . let I move on from the question of oversight in relation to bulk personal dataset to the issue of " no " or " low " expectation of privacy in relation to such dataset , and how that test will operate in practice . throughout the passage of the Bill , we have be repeatedly give some very easy example of so - call " low / no " bulk personal dataset . for example , we have speak about phone book , academic paper , public and official record , and other datum that many people would have access to routinely . it be helpful that , in relation to what be now our amendment 9 , the Minister say in Committee that Facebook post and CCTV picture would be consider sensitive and would not be catch by these provision . it be very helpful to have that on the record . none the less , it would to be useful to have great precision in the Bill . amendment 8 would take out reference to " low " expectation of privacy altogether , so that only " no " expectation would be cover by the new provision . to we , " low " be such a difficult question to adjudicate — low expectation in particular . that be especially the case when we be deal with dataset of potentially huge number of very different people with very different reason for have very different expectation of privacy , particularly in how that would relate to different organisation . we can not think of a single dataset example provide during the passage of the Bill that would not be adequately cover by " no reasonable expectation of privacy " . if that be the case , if that be really all the Bill will be use for , why not just accept the amendment ? it would be useful to have an understanding of what " low " expectation of privacy be design to cover . amendment 15 bring we to internet connection record . in 2016 , the Government emphasise the very targeted nature of the ICR power , but here we be be ask to incrementally expand those power so that they be slightly less targeted . to we , that mean that the independent assessment of proportionality and necessity be pivotal , so we think that it should be subject to advance judicial oversight . even the explanatory note accept that there be difficulty in formulate sufficiently target query , note that " such query be highly susceptible to imprecise construction " and that " additional safeguard " be require . for we , the require additional safeguard be judicial oversight . we be lead to believe that the power would be use only exceptionally , so it be hard to see how a judicial authorisation requirement would cause any significant problem . the Government argue that there may be time when warrant be need on an emergency basis , but that could be deal with by have emergency process or very limited exception — it be not an argument against a general rule of advance judicial oversight . I turn to the impact on technology company of the Bill ' s various provision relate to notice — although the right hon . and learn Member for Kenilworth and Southam probably make more sensible and eloquent point than those I be about to make . the write evidence that the Bill Committee receive show that tech company , academic and human right and privacy campaigner be still a million mile away from the Government in their understanding of how the provision will work and of the impact that they will have on product and service . Apple write to the Committee that these provision " would dramatically disrupt the global market for security technology , put user in the UK and around the world at great risk . " it be frustrating and disappointing that we do not have the opportunity to explore those difference in detail through witness testimony . the Minister do his good to reassure we , and he make some important argument about extraterritoriality and conflict of law , but give the serious concern that have be raise , it be worth again ask the Minister to explain why those witness be wrong and he be correct . in particular , the Government ' s explanation that the new pre - notification requirement in clause 21 be " not intend as an approval mechanism " have not dampen concern . Apple argue in evidence to the Committee that " once a company be compel to provide notice of a new security technology to the SoS , the sos can immediately seek a Technical Capability Notice to block the technology . " other provision in the Bill around maintain the status quo during notice review period work in tandem with these provision to deliver what Apple and other see as a de facto block on adoption of new technology — that be the risk that they be highlight , and it be what the Minister must address in his speech . it be why we have table amendment to take out some of those provision . it be also why we have table amendment 19 : an alternative that would introduce advance judicial oversight and , hopefully , a degree of reassurance that the new notification notice regime under clause 21 will not deliver the unintended effect that many fear . finally , I put on the record our support for the amendment table by member of the Intelligence and Security Committee , whose work on the Bill have be as helpful as ever — I congratulate they on their one - and - a - half victory so far . as be often the case when it come to Bills of this type , we also put on record our support for several of the amendment table by the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) , some of which be similar to amendment that we table in Committee , while other be similar to amendment that we support during the passage of other Bills , include the National Security Act 2023 . in particular , new clause 3 , which be design to place an absolute prohibition on the UK share intelligence with foreign government where there be a real risk of torture or cruel , inhuman or degrading treatment , be long overdue and would close a serious gap in the law . for we , that be self - evidently the right thing to do . as you will know , Madam Deputy Speaker , and as other member have make reference to , I be the Minister who take the original Bill , which this Bill amend , through the House — indeed , it become the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 . the purpose of that legislation be both to draw together a number of the capability of the agency necessary for they to keep we safe , and to put in place a series of mechanism to ensure that there be proper scrutiny and accountability for those power . we introduce the principle of a double lock , whereby both politician and judicial commissioner be necessary to authorise some of those very power . they matter because of the threat we face . those threat be , as have be say by a number of contributor , metamorphosise . they be bind to do so , and we anticipate that when the original Act be consider in this place . I accept the argument use by the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Barnsley Central ( Dan Jarvis ) , that that do not end here tonight . those threat will continue to change , and it will be necessary to update the legislation to reflect those change , for our security service and police need two thing to do the job that we expect they to do on our behalf : capacity — namely , skill and resource — and capability , which include legislative power . what they face be extraordinary , both in its degree and its character . it be the kind of evil that none of we be likely to encounter head - on in the way in which they be bind to do because of their job , but we could , we might , and , indeed , our former colleague Jo Cox and David Amess do face that kind of evil . tolerance of evil be evil itself — I think Thomas Mann say that — because if we be to , in any sense , give quarter to those who seek to do we harm , in the interest of be fair minded and open , as we be in our society , and if consequently we undermine the force of law , we do no service to the british people because we jeopardise their safety . I welcome the spirit in which the provision that we be consider have be debate so far by both side of the House and by member of the ISC . like my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) , I do not wish to add unduly to that consideration , except to say two or three thing . the first be that the Minister have engage with the ISC formally and with member of the ISC informally in an effort to improve the legislation . it be right that he should do that — it have always be the spirit in which these kind of measure have be consider — and I do so myself when in his shoe , I work closely with my then shadow , who now , as Leader of the Opposition , aspire to be Prime Minister , and build a relationship with he accordingly , base on trust and a share determination to do right by the right intelligence and security service and the police , because we want to do right by the british people . the second thing be that I must press the Minister to go far in five particular way . well , actually , four , because he have already satisfy one of my requirement in response to the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) , whom I thank for his contribution and his generous remark . [ interruption . ] he have come back into the Chamber to hear my appreciation I see . we work closely together on the Committee , on which we both serve . it be serious , and sometimes onerous , work , but it be enjoyable because we know that it be important . in this place , what could be well than that ? so , there be perhaps four matter on which I would like to press the Minister . I be hopeful that , give what I just say about he , we may be able to make progress . the first be the matter of the extension of what have become know as the triple lock . the right hon . member for North Durham refer to it , as do the former Attorney General , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam . in consider delegate prime ministerial authority to other Ministers , we have have discussion at length . it seem sensible to I that , in do so , we might say that other Ministers could perform the role of Prime Minister in respect of authorisation if they have operational experience or responsibility . that would be a reasonable way of narrow the number of Ministers involve to people who have salient understanding and experience . that marriage of either be responsible or have be responsible would perhaps be the good way forward , although I appreciate that the Minister have make a case that the number of Ministers involve need to be broaden because the Prime Minister may be incapacitate in some way or another . there be a case for what the Government be try to do , with the caveat I have introduce . turn to communication datum and the way that will be deal with , and the additional body that will have access to some power that have previously only be in the hand of a very few , could the Minister clarify that in respect of local authority , this will not be a permissive power ? there be time when local government in its regulatory role will be work with the police , deal with very serious and organised crime — I be think of licensing , trading standard and so on , for example . where serious criminal can be involve in matter that pertain to the function of local authority , I accept that there be some case in which they should have those quite extensive power , but one would not want to think that every parish council in the land would enjoy the same legal power as the SIS or MI5 . rise — the Minister be go to satisfy I immediately , it seem . I will satisfy my right hon . friend immediately and , I hope , save he time in his speech . local authority trading standard team be responsible for a range of legislation where enforcement require investigation and may need to draw on communication datum . the idea be that the power in this Bill will be in keep with those power , not for they to be expansive , so my right hon . friend be right : it be for serious crime , as have already be set out . that be excellent — it help , because the schedule associate with that part of the Bill do not make that explicit . I hope that the Minister , have give that bind assurance to the House , will reinforce it in the explanatory note associate with the Act and in the code attach to it . indicate assent . I be see the Minister nod . he might want to say a word or two more when he sum up . may I gently suggest that the right hon . Gentleman go back to the Minister now , just to pin down exactly what he be agree to ? we on the ISC have no problem with the idea of our security service have these power , and I do not think the public would either . they would be less comfortable , as I and the right hon . Gentleman be , with other organisation have they . the Minister may want to intervene on I again to do exactly what the right hon . Gentleman have suggest . on the ground that it will save I time when I wrap up at the end of the debate , I will make it clear now . his Majesty ' s Treasury be responsible for civil enforcement of financial sanction regulation , and some information that be essential to carry out its civil enforcement function be now communication datum , such as the timestamp on online banking transaction . his Majesty ' s Treasury can not currently use its information power to compel that information to be provide by a telecom operator , so to go back to the statement I make early , local authority trading standard team be responsible for a range for legislation where enforcement require investigation and may need to draw on communication datum . that be very helpful and , I think , go a fair way towards what I want to achieve . the Minister have therefore make clear that the power will not be permissive . if he use those very word — forgive I for put they into his mouth , Madam Deputy Speaker — that would also help . these be go to be rarely use , particular power associate with regulatory or legal function of local authority , not permissively available to those local authority at their whim . that be clear as crystal , be it not ? if my right hon . friend will forgive I , I will use the word I be use . those power will be use as infrequently as we all hope they will be , but they will be use in keep with the law as describe . if the frequency increase , it will be because of the need to act ; I be very cautious about say that these crime will disappear , and therefore the frequency will change . I be not willing to predict that criminality now . I entirely understand . I use the example myself of trading standard : in Lincolnshire , we have an issue with the sale of illegal cigarette that have become not a trivial matter , but one of organised crime . it be not restrict to my county or locality : it be a national problem , and it be of course an example of where a local authority , work closely with the police , might well need to use those power . by the way , those local authority will be work with other agency too : because money laundering be involve , his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs might be involve , and so on and so forth . that be a good example of where those power might be useful in catch very serious criminal indeed , but the word I want the Minister to use be that these power be not permissive . he will understand what I mean by that , and I can not see why that would present any problem at all , give the reasonable , sensible man he be . I apologise to my right hon . friend . these power be not permissive in the sense that they be expansive : they be permissive only in the sense apply to they by this law , with the restriction of the power that local authority already have . they be not to be use in any way other than as set out very clearly in the Bill . I think that be helpful . the Minister will remember that when we debate the original bill that become the Investigatory Powers Act , one or two newspaper use the term " the snooper ' charter " , and image be use of local authority use those power to investigate people ' s rubbish to make sure they be recycle properly , for example . I do not want to add unnecessary levity to our consideration tonight , because we be deal with very serious matter indeed , but the Minister will understand how that kind of misunderstanding — indeed , misinformation — could do far more harm than good . again , just to clarify for my right hon . friend , this Bill offer no great expansion than his own Bill do in 2016 . in the same way he ensure that Bill be no snooper ' charter , I assure he that this one be not either . rise — I be go to say that I have do this matter to death , but I can see that the right hon . Gentleman want to intervene . I think the Minister be get another " dance on the head of a pin " award for his explanation . what I think the right hon . Gentleman be try to get on the record — perhaps not for the benefit of people in this House who understand this Bill , but for the wide public — be that the way the Bill will be use be that it will include , for example , a local authority when an investigation be be drive by a security issue , such as in his example of organise crime in cigarette smuggling . yes , exactly . the right hon . Gentleman have put it very clearly , and the sense of what the Minister have say have reassure I that it be not the Government ' s intention to extend those power beyond the very strict legal limit associate with the kind of organise crime that he and I have both cite . for I , that be considerable progress . the right hon . Gentleman speak early about half a win ; I think that be three quarter of a win , at least . for that reason , I feel that I can move on to my next request of the Minister . we speak early about IPCO , and its role and association with Government . as the Minister will know and as the right hon . member for North Durham refer to , this legislation provide for a report to be make available to the ISC on an annual basis . there have be some concern that that report might be rather different from the one that be make available to Ministers and other , and my anxiety be that it should not be different . all that it should exclude be current operational matter ; nothing else should be exclude from what my Committee consider , and clearly , it need to be the same as what ipco get . we can not have three or four different report . I can give my right hon . friend that assurance . that be a 100 % win . it be not half a win or three quarter of a win ; it be just a win . so we be make huge progress tonight , partly due to the diligence of the member of the ISC and other member of this House , include the official Opposition , but largely due to the reasonableness of the Minister . he be a listening figure , and he be grow in stature and reputation as a result . I be delighted that the Minister have agree to the fourth of my requirement . I do have a fifth request , however , and I be inspire to make it by none other than the shadow Minister . that will come as a surprise , perhaps include to the shadow Minister himself , but he make a very strong point when move his new clause 1 about find some way of formalise the expectation that this legislation would be regularly review and , when necessary , update . I do not imagine that the Minister will rush to accept such an amendment in the name of the official Opposition — it would certainly be unconventional be he so to do — but it be worthy of further consideration by the Government . this be go to be a challenging business for whoever the Security Minister be , but recognise the dynamism of the threat we face and therefore the necessity of an equally dynamic response be of great significance and value . I hope the Minister , when he sum up , might find some word that will allow he to recognise the sensible suggestion make by the shadow Minister , and the spirit in which it be make . that would be further evidence of the Minister ' s stature , of which I be an advocate at the moment , but I be seek further adherent to my cause . with those few remark and endorse much of what have already be say , I will draw my speech to a conclusion with this thought . I speak early about Thomas Mann and his description of tolerance and evil , but perhaps Chesterton put this most succinctly when he say : " unless a man become the enemy of an evil , he will not even become its slave but rather its champion . " every time we have doubt and fear when face the wicked people who seek to do we harm and who take the life of our dear colleague , we give they solace . every time we stand firm , and do what be necessary to defend our nation and its people , we do what be right . the Minister have the great privilege of lead that effort tonight , and in do so he should have the support of all man and woman of good will across this House . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) , and indeed all the fellow member of the ISC who have speak on both side of the House in our debate on seek to improve this important piece of legislation . I must say that it be very rare , when one be call towards the end of a debate , for there to have be concession on most of the area at issue , leave very little else to say . it make I happy that I do not write my speech in advance , since I would have have to rip most of it up follow the Security Minister ' s very welcome concession on a range of issue during our debate . they be on the record , and they be indeed extremely welcome . however , there be one area of detail that I want to comment on , which be about the triple lock amendment — amendment 22 — on the qualification and experience of the Secretaries of State who , under the widening of the triple lock , could if the Prime Minister of the day be incapacitate for some reason , be draw into make a warrant to intercept the communication of a Member of this Parliament , or indeed a Member of any of the devolved legislature in the UK . the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) be very explicit about why that particular protection should be in existence , and I completely agree with his analysis . one of the way we defend our democracy be by allow Members of Parliament to do their unique job without interference unless it be for an exceptional and a very good reason , and have be authorise at the high level . there have be a lot of to - ing and fro - ing while the Bill have be go through its parliamentary stage about precisely how this widening of the power to make such a warrant away from the Prime Minister , if he or she be indispose or unable to be near secure communication , should actually be define . we have get down to the stage where everybody agree that to make the system robust there should be an expansion , and we have even come up with a number of Secretaries of State — five — who should be authorise in such exceptional circumstance to make that warrant . we be now down to the last piece of disagreement between the ISC and the Minister , which be about what the qualification of those Secretaries of State should be . in seek to try to draw out precisely what the Government mean , we have ask as a Committee that the relevant Secretaries of State who may be down to do this duty ought already to be responsible for warrantry , or have have previous responsibility for it . thus far , however , the Government and the Minister have be unwilling to be that deliberate in the arrangement they have make . as the right hon . and learn Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) say in his contribution to the debate , the only qualification apart from be a Secretary of State that the Government appear to have admit be that the person stand in for the Prime Minister ought to have have a 20 - minute security briefing about warrantry . do my hon . friend agree with I that this be so important , because the Secretary of State will be act as the Prime Minister at that time ? once that decision have be take — even though we now have the commitment from the Minister that the Prime Minister will be tell , not should be tell — they will not be able to overturn or review it in any way , so that person be act as the Prime Minister at that stage . yes , and it be clearly important that there be a reassurance that the Secretary of State who be pick to do that job in these exceptional circumstance will either have previous experience of be responsible for warrantry and issue warrant , or have current experience . I do not see why the Security Minister can not concede that that be where we should be . I do not understand why , over all of the parliamentary time spend on this Bill , the Government have not be able to give we that assurance , which just shore up the important nature of the commitment to widen the triple lock . clearly , the Minister ' s very welcome decision to make the concession on amendment 23 , as my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) have just point out , strengthen the situation , because that mean the Prime Minister will have to be notify of such a warrant . however , my right hon . friend be also correct in point out that the warrant can not be rescind if it have already be grant . I therefore gently ask the Security Minister whether he will not take the opportunity , in respond to the debate , to give the ISC member and the public we all represent the reassurance that the Secretaries of State who may have this power delegate to they either will already be responsible for warranting , or will have previously have responsibility for warranting . I do not understand why he can not just get up and give we that final assurance . if he do , I think we will have do extremely well on Report and in Committee . I be rather disappointed that the Minister be not leap to his foot , since he have be leap to his foot a lot while my colleague have be make their speech . I see no such flicker in he as I be make mine . I suspect and hope that that be because he be just think about how he will wind up the debate and give we that final assurance that we need . the measure be doable , because we be not ask for something in the Bill ; it could be do in the guidance . the Minister have already agree on change the " should " to " will " , so this measure could be reflect in the guidance that go alongside the Bill . I can see that the Minister be look pensive , so I hope that mean he be think of some way to reassure we on this final , important point with respect to the triple lock and the widening of those power to other Ministers who be not the Prime Minister . the whole debate around the Investigatory Powers ( Amendment ) Bill demonstrate that when threat evolve , the requirement to meet they also have to evolve . we know that this area be rapidly develop , and we know also that we will probably be back in the not - too - distant future to see how these power can be change again to defend our democracy and meet some of the threat of serious organise crime and terrorism , which our security force help we deal with day in , day out . we also know that if our citizen be to give we effective permission and consent to take some of these power , any increase in power have to be accompany by an increase in proper oversight , to reassure they that democracy be be defend , not undermine . that include oversight by the ISC , which be why I be a big supporter of new clause 1 as table by my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley Central ( Dan Jarvis ) . it be important that that can be an ongoing reassurance . I do not want to repeat a lot of the argument make by colleague , and it be important now to listen to what the Minister have to say . I thank he for the concession he have make , and I hope he can make just a slight move towards we on the warrantry issue in the instance of the triple lock , so that we can be even more content than we be now . I rise to speak to amendment 15 , 20 and 22 , and government amendment 3 and 6 . I highlight that the investment declare in my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests include a data company . the intelligence service carry out vital work in keep we safe in a dangerous world , as we have hear from many colleague this evening . the secrecy that surround what the agency do inevitably mean that the majority of people who work for they will never receive public praise or recognition , so I take this opportunity to thank they for their brave and dedicated effort on our behalf . this Bill provide important update to the law to enable they to operate effectively and to adapt to fast - move technological change and innovation . this kind of update to legislation will be essential again and again in year to come to enable our intelligence service to keep ahead of those who would seek to do we harm . for example — this be at the heart of what we be do today — it make no sense to require , as the current law do , that the intelligence service undertake the full range of action design for hold sensitive , confidential and private information when deal with dataset that be readily available to the public or to commercial user and over which there be little or no expectation of privacy . I welcome the Bill , and my purpose this evening be just to seek to ensure that the extension of power that the Government propose to give to the intelligence service be accompany by the appropriate extension of scrutiny . we have one of the most rigorous and comprehensive legal framework in the world to provide democratic control and oversight of intelligence work , include , as we have hear , a significant role for the ISC , of which I be a member . that Committee have express a number of concern about the Bill , and I welcome the change that have be make in the other place and this evening by the Minister to respond to the concern express by member of the ISC . for instance , it be good to see that government amendment 3 and 6 provide additional certainty on which organisation will be able to use new intrusive power and how they will be constrain in their use . controversial example of past local authority deployment of such power be debate at length in relation to the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 . it would have be worry for this Bill to reach the statute book without further clarity on that point . I welcome the tightening up of the provision in the Bill on the triple lock , which determine the very rare circumstance when the communication of a legislator can be intercept . that include amendment in the other place specify that only five designate Secretaries of State may sign off on these warrant in place of the Prime Minister , and only when the Prime Minister be unable to do so because of incapacity or an inability to access secure communication . like other , include the hon . member for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) , whom I be privileged to follow in this debate , I think the Government still have some work to do on the matter raise in amendment 21 and 22 , which be table by my colleague on the ISC , to provide confidence that this highly sensitive task will be carry out responsibly and lawfully . we need to ensure that the designated Secretary of State be someone whose routine duty include sign warrant or who have relevant operational experience of do so . as someone who scrutinise and sign intercept warrant for nearly four year as Northern Ireland Secretary , I know how important that practical understanding and awareness be . have say that , I very much welcome the statement that have be make on how the code of practice will operate in this area and on ensure that the Prime Minister be notify of any warrant agree on his behalf . lastly , I want to consider amendment 15 on internet connection record . the current rule mean that to lawfully access an internet connection record , the intelligence service must know the precise service access and the time it be access . clause 16 would extend that power to identify individual use one or more specified internet service for a specify period . in the Bill , there be simply no limit on the number of service or the length of period specify . there be nothing in clause 15 to confine the new power to site that be inherently suspicious . the intelligence service , for example , might reasonably want to collect information on access to uncontroversial , widely use site by people who be of concern to they , but the disadvantage of that be that it mean routine online activity by many entirely innocent people could also be scoop up . I acknowledge that we be talk about only communication datum — that is , the who , when , where of online activity — and not the content of the communication . I also concede that the general need on necessity and proportionality provide an important constraint , as will the commitment to delete datum collect relate to people not of interest to the security service . however , as my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) say on Second Reading , the fact that data be not retain do not mean that it be not intrusive to collect it . I think that there be a credible case for insert a requirement to seek the permission of a judicial commissioner , rather than let decision be make internally by the intelligence agency . this be an important Bill , which I very much hope the House will pass this evening , but there remain real concern about clause 15 and the width of intrusion that it would involve . I therefore urge the Minister once more to consider additional safeguard to govern the exercise of these new power to access internet connection record , so that we guarantee proper scrutiny and public confidence and ensure that the regulation of our intelligence service continue to be world lead . rise — before I call the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , I be sure that the whole House will want to join I in wish he a very happy birthday . hear , hear ! you be most kind , Madam Deputy Speaker . when you get to my age , you do not count the year , but you make the year count . it be an absolute honour and pleasure to follow the right hon . member for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) . may I put on the record my thank to she for her time as Secretary of State for Northern Ireland ? we appreciate her commitment and effort over those year . her intelligence about and interest in Northern Ireland have not dissipate because she be no long the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland ; indeed , they have add to the occasion . it be a pleasure to speak on the Bill , which , as the Minister will know , I have do on numerous occasion . I be aware of the complexity of the issue and of the need to give privacy its rightful place in our national security . as other have do , I put on the record my thank to all the security and intelligence service for all that they have do and still do . we owe they a great debt . during the previous debate , I ask the Minister for his assurance regard whether the right balance have be strike , yet I have still be contact by constituent who continue to express their concern . I will not detain the House for long — about five minute — but will highlight again the concern that my constituent continue to express , to give they one last chance to receive assurance on the Floor of the House . my constituent ' remain concern relate to something that we in this place have much cognisance of and that we treasure : the freedom within a democratic society to live our life in peace as long as we be not adversely affect the life of other . that be a precious right , and one that none of we in the House want to remove . I will refer to clause 1 and 2 and highlight four company that have express concern to get the Minister ' s response . my constituent have highlight the following : " in addition to the concern of civil society , I would like to draw your attention to some of the comment submit in evidence to the Bill ' s Committee from the tech industry . apple : ' in addition to impact the safety of billion of user around the world who rely on security technology develop by Apple and other company , the Bill in its current form would undermine fundamental human right . in fact , just this year , the European Court of Human Rights hold that require a company to provide a means to decrypt all encrypt communication on its platform violate the right of privacy in article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights . ' TechUK : ' this could impede the ability of TechUK member to modify product and service over time to protect user from active security threat , to innovate , and enhance their service for their user . ' Information Technology Industry Council : ' we strongly encourage great scrutiny of these implication so that the Bill will not have a chilling effect on a company ' s ability to conduct business or in current or future innovation , and that it will serve to further international effort on share goal around trust and security . ' Computer and Communications Industry Association : ' over time , this will push tech firm to refocus product development away from address the priority of UK consumer , towards Government demand for access . the obstacle the new regime create will be a drag on innovation and therefore undermine the quality of digital service on offer . ' " I be listen carefully to the hon . Gentleman ' s speech , not least because it be his birthday . let I put it to he in this fashion . I think that the public have as much to fear from those corporate organisation as they do from any democratically elect Government . I be much more concerned about the way that they gather and sell datum , and , deal with the matter of expectation , the vast majority of people do not know that they be do it . rather than more a more permissive attitude towards those organisation , I want to see a less permissive one . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his intervention . I share those concern , but I wish to put on the record my concern for my constituent in relation to how the change be interpret and how they will affect people . I will give the last sentence of the quotation from the Computer & Communications Industry Association : " they could risk deter investment in improve service for UK consumer and contribute to a sense that the UK be not a safe market in which to invest . " those be the four tech company , and the question be on the record — I put they in Hansard — so that perhaps the Minister can give I an answer . will he outline what mitigation be in place for the matter affect those four company in order to secure the tech industry ' s place in the fabric of our life in the United Kingdom ? I be pleased that the Minister have accept amendment 23 , which be table by the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) . the Democratic Unionist party be minded to support that amendment , but , because it have be accept , we will not need to do so . while I be aware of valid concern , I be also aware of the need for this Bill , which the gallant Minister will know about well than most in the House . he serve in Northern Ireland , so he understand the implication for we in Northern Ireland and the life that we have lead for some year . I be a part - time soldier in the Ulster Defence Regiment and in the Territorial Army for 14 and a half year . I have be a recipient of security intelligence and know how it can save life . I be here today because of intelligence , which find out what the IRA ' s intention be . that be a fact . that have affect not just I ; over the year , the intelligence service have save the life of other hon . and gallant Members . I have many friend who serve and who be alive today because of the intelligence service or the Security Service . I have many other friend who unfortunately be not alive today ; I remember they as well , so I do . we must remember that the whole objective of the Bill be to keep we safe , to keep we secure and to ensure that our life with our family can continue . I do hope that a balance have be strike , as the Minister outline , because freedom be a prize worthy of get it right . I know that the Minister want to get it right , and I want it to be right . Madam Deputy Speaker , you want it to be right as well . let we do it and get it right tonight . right hon . and hon . member will be delighted to hear that , have answer colleague as we go along , I have only a few short word to conclude . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] I know how to keep they happy . amendment 3 to 6 to clause 14 concern the restoration of specified public authority ' general information power to secure the disclosure of communication datum from a telecommunications operator by compulsion . I pay tribute and thank to my right hon . friend the Member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) . I hope that Members will have notice that I have listen carefully to member across the House , and I believe that this Bill have be pull together carefully alongside the Intelligence and Security Committee . it be a slight shame I can not thank the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) in person , who be sadly at a funeral today . he have play an important role in contribute to and lead the engagement of which I have have the advantage in prepare this Bill . let I quickly touch on one or two point . my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) speak about notice . it be important to note that the notice do not block innovation . they do not stop a technical patch or infringe on company ' ability to update their system . all they do be make sure that the exist level of access remain while that be be look at . that be a reasonable element to ensure that the british people be keep safe by the british law enforcement authority . I understand what my right hon . friend be say , but the practical consequence of issue such a notice be that the development of the product about which concern have be express have to stop . therefore , the infringement on commercial liberty , in practice , be exactly what I have describe , be it not ? if my right hon . and learn Friend will forgive I , I will be able discuss that in a more secure environment , but I can only say , " not necessarily . " I will be able to describe why that be in a different environment , but I can not do it here . the reason for not accept amendment 22 and 23 — I understand the point make by right hon . and hon . friend and Members across the House — be that we be talk about a very limited number of people . one Secretary of State be already use to do the initial request . the second person on the triple lock be a judicial commissioner — a judge . the third therefore have to be one of the four Secretaries of State leave . therefore , it be important that we make sure that it be somebody in whom the Prime Minister have confidence . give that we be about to have a new government — I hope the new Conservative Government , but still a new one — it be entirely possible that there will be a new Cabinet and that the routine explanation will not be satisfactory . as routine duty do not have legal clarity , we will not use they . the Minister have use that argument before about new Secretaries of State , and it be complete nonsense , be it not ? it would not happen on day one unless the Prime Minister suddenly get covid or be indispose . by the time this come in , those three people would be there anyway . his argument be pretty weak . the right hon . Member have make his point and I have make mine ; I be afraid I will leave it there rather than continue . the way in which we have be able to engage on the Bill have be incredibly supportive and helpful . the removal of clause 15 from the Bill would prevent the intelligence agency and the National Crime Agency from detect some national security and serious crime threat , and those intent on commit child sexual exportation and abuse . give the robust oversight of the regime in general , and the internet connection record in particular , we simply do not believe that this be in the good interest of the british public . removal would benefit only those who threaten our safety and serve to make the work of the intelligence service and the NCA significantly hard as they seek to protect we and bring paedophile to justice . the Investigatory Powers Commissioner already have the necessary power to inspect and report on all part of the cd regime . if the Investigatory Powers Commissioner wish be to focus attention on condition d of the internet connection record , they have the power to do so . with those clarification , I commend the Bill to the House . question put , that the clause be read a second time . diane Abbott Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Clive Betts Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Lyn Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Richard Burgon Liam Byrne Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Sarah Champion Joanna Cherry Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Rosie Duffield Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes draw Hendry Meg Hillier Kate Hollern Stewart Hosie Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Anna McMorrin Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Alyn Smith Cat Smith Nick Smith John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Munira Wilson Beth Winter Mohammad Yasin Mary Glindon Colleen Fletcher Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie James Daly David Davies Gareth davy Mims davy David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Leo Docherty Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Chris Loder Mark Logan Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Esther McVey Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Jesse Norman Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey John Penrose Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin Tom Randall John Redwood Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Iain Stewart Mel Stride Graham Stuart James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Theresa Villiers Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin Craig Williams Mike Wood William Wragg Jacob Young Gagan Mohindra Suzanne Webb the House divide : Ayes 171 , Noes 265 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 2 - requirement for the Secretary of State to publish an annual report on technology - enable serious and organised crime and technology - enable threat to national security " after section 234 of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 , insert — " 234A Requirement for the Secretary of State to publish an annual report on technology - enable serious and organised crime and technology - enable threat to national security ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must publish a report on technology - assist crime insofar as it relate to measure set out in this Act and the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 . ( 2 ) the report must be publish within one year of the passing of the Investigatory Powers ( Amendment ) Act 2024 , and annually thereafter . " " — ( Dan Jarvis . ) this new clause would ensure the Secretary of State publish an annual report on technology - enable serious and organised crime and technology - enable threat to national security insofar as it relate to measure set out in this Act and the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . diane Abbott Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Clive Betts Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Lyn Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Richard Burgon Liam Byrne Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Sarah Champion Joanna Cherry Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Rosie Duffield Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes draw Hendry Meg Hillier Kate Hollern Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Anna McMorrin Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Alyn Smith Cat Smith Nick Smith John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Munira Wilson Beth Winter Mohammad Yasin Mary Glindon Colleen Fletcher Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie James Daly David Davies Gareth davy Mims davy David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Leo Docherty Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Chris Loder Mark Logan Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Esther McVey Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Jesse Norman Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey John Penrose Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin Tom Randall John Redwood Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Iain Stewart Mel Stride Graham Stuart James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Theresa Villiers Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin Craig Williams Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Gagan Mohindra Suzanne Webb the House divide : Ayes 171 , Noes 265 . question accordingly negative . clause 2 - Low or no reasonable expectation of privacy Amendment propose : 7 , Page 3 , line 9 , leave out Clause 2 . — ( Stuart C . McDonald . ) question put , that the amendment be make . Hannah Bardell Ian Blackford Steven Bonnar Deidre Brock Amy Callaghan Joanna Cherry Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Martyn Day Martin Docherty Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Jonathan Edwards Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Drew Hendry Stewart Hosie Ben Lake Chris Law David Linden Kenny MacAskill Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald Anne McLaughlin Carol Monaghan Gavin Newlands John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Kirsten Oswald Tommy Sheppard Alyn Smith Chris Stephens Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Philippa Whitford Peter Grant Kirsty Blackman Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie James Daly David Davies Gareth davy Mims davy Dehenna Davison Sarah Dines Leo Docherty Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith Jonathan Gullis Luke Hall Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Chris Loder Mark Logan Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Scott Mann Julie Marson Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Esther McVey Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Jesse Norman Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey John Penrose Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin Tom Randall John Redwood Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Iain Stewart Mel Stride Graham Stuart James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Theresa Villiers Robin Walker Matt Warman Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin Craig Williams Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Gagan Mohindra Suzanne Webb the House divide : Ayes 39 , Noes 257 . question accordingly negative . proceeding interrupt ( Programme Order , 20 March ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the question necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83e ) . clause 14 - Powers to obtain communication datum Amendments make : 3 , page 35 , line 5 , after " exercise " insert " by a specified public authority " this amendment and Amendments 4 , 5 and 6 restrict the class of public authority whose power to secure disclosure of communication datum be affect by this clause . amendment 4 , page 35 , line 17 , at end insert — " ( 5A ) after subsection ( 5 ) insert — " ( 5A ) in this section " specify public authority " mean a public authority which be — ( a ) list in schedule 2A , or ( b ) list in column 1 of the table in Schedule 4 . ( 5b ) the Secretary of State or the Treasury may by regulation modify schedule 2A by — ( a ) add a public authority to , or ( b ) remove a public authority from , the list in that schedule . " " see the explanatory statement for Amendment 3 . amendment 5 , page 35 , line 35 , at end insert — " ( 6a ) in section 267 of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 ( regulation ) , in subsection ( 5 ) , after paragraph ( a ) insert — " ( aa ) regulation under section 12 ( 5B ) , " . " see the explanatory statement for Amendment 3 . amendment 6 , page 35 , line 35 , at end insert — " ( 6b ) in the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 , after Schedule 2 insert — " schedule 2A specify public authority for the purpose of section 12 1 the Treasury . 2 a local authority . in this Schedule " local authority " have the same meaning as in Part 3 ( see section 86 ) . " " . — ( Tom Tugendhat . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment 3 Third reading I beg to move , that the Bill be read the third time . I pay huge tribute to all the contribution from across this House , and particularly to my hon . friend the Member for North Cornwall ( Scott Mann ) , who whip this through in exemplary fashion and will be delighted that since my appointment he have not have to take a Minister ' s place on a Bill . he will also be grateful , along with I , to Lord Sharpe in the other place who have lead on this Bill brilliantly , and take we through with exemplary speed . I thank the hon . member for Barnsley Central ( Dan Jarvis ) , who have be a great friend for many year . we have now complete a Bill together , which really do bring we that bit close . I also say an enormous thank to Phoebe , Fintan , Francesca , James , Emer , Lucy x 2 , Megan , Sophie , and Tom Ball , whose exemplary work in the Bill Committee have be fantastic . it be gratify that we will get this Bill on the statute book , because it will give our security service the necessary power to keep we all safe . I add my thank to the staff of the Committee on which I and other Members serve , and like the Minister I thank the civil servant who I have engage with throughout the passage of the Bill . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley Central ( Dan Jarvis ) for his engagement on the Bill . the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) would have like to have be here today . he have play an integral part not just in speak about the Bill , but in his work on the ISC . as I say early , unfortunately he be at the funeral of Lord Cormack ; the House will understand his reason . as I say , the Bill will improve our ability . perhaps the Minister would also like to put on record his thank to the ISC , which he forget to do . it might have be a painful process at time , but can I give he some advice , possibly for the future ? he may well have be able to solve some of these issue early in our discussion , and avoid keep his colleague here on a Monday night — [ interruption . ] the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities say from a sedentary position that that be impossible , but the Minister have agree to our amendment . I be go to do so ! the Minister say that he be go to , but if he have do that last week we could perhaps have have very short discussion tonight . some of we should take yes for an answer . well some of we do , but if the amendment have be agree to last week , we could have have a short debate today and the Minister ' s colleague would not have be keep here for so long . finally , the big thank we need to give be to the man and woman of our security service who , as the Minister say in his early contribution , do not get any recognition publicly . they do their work day in , day out , some in very dangerous circumstance , to keep we all safe . I , too , thank all colleague who have take part in the proceeding today , in Committee stage and before , especially member of the ISC whose expertise really do benefit our scrutiny process . I also thank all the various organisation that have provide write evidence and briefing , both in support of , and in opposition to , the Bill . finally , may I also thank the Committee staff and the Clerks of the House for help we through what have in some way be quite a technical bill ? the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 set out a detailed framework for use of investigatory power . the existence of such a legislative framework be welcome , as be some aspect of the framework itself . we work hard to try to improve that framework , but , ultimately , believe that it fall short of what be require and so we vote against that Bill on Third Reading . we be in much the same place today . we get the motivation for this Bill ; they be understand and we be sympathetic with some of what the Bill seek to achieve . however , we be not convince that all the power be show to have be necessary and proportionate and that there be not other way to get to where those seek the new power need to be . at the same time , with more extensive power and more extensive use of those power , there should come great oversight . in our view , the Bill head we in the opposite direction , water down or fail to put into place necessary advanced judicial oversight . such oversight , we believe , be of benefit in provide reassurance not only to member of the public concern with implication for their private life , but to the very people who need to navigate these power — member of our security and intelligence service and other public body . instead , they be leave to make difficult almost impossible judgment as to their lawful use , necessity and proportionality . therefore , we do not take this step lightly , but for those reason we will be vote against Third Reading tonight . I rise to confirm that we on these Benches support the Third reading of this Bill . it be the first duty of every Government to keep their people safe . it be right that we take the opportunity to pay tribute to the exceptional man and woman who serve in our police and security service , often in the shadow and often without recognition , work tirelessly to keep our country safe . we owe they all a debt of gratitude . we also owe it to they , as member of this House , to provide they with the power they need to discharge their duty . the Bill do that , in part , because it have be the product of constructive cross - party effort both in this House and in the other place . I wish to take the opportunity to thank the Minister for his work on the Bill . I wish he well with future endeavour . I also thank the SNP and all those member who have contribute to this process , particularly those member of the ISC , who have make an outstanding contribution to proceeding . on behalf of the whole House , I express our thank to the civil servant work in the Home Office who have do an exceptional job , as have the Clerks of this House , who have work very hard on what be after all a technical bill . it be always welcome when collegiate , cross - party working take place in this House . I be very grateful that , on this occasion , we have be able to work together on get this important Bill right . question put , that the Bill be now read the third time . Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Conor Burns Rob Butler Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie James Daly David Davies Gareth davy Mims davy Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Leo Docherty Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith Luke Hall Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart John Hayes James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Chris Loder Mark Logan Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Scott Mann Julie Marson Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Esther McVey Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Jesse Norman Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey John Penrose Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin Tom Randall John Redwood Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Iain Stewart Mel Stride Graham Stuart James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Theresa Villiers Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin Craig Williams Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Gagan Mohindra Suzanne Webb Hannah Bardell Ian Blackford Steven Bonnar Deidre Brock Amy Callaghan Joanna Cherry Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Martyn Day Martin Docherty Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Jonathan Edwards Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Drew Hendry Stewart Hosie Ben Lake Chris Law David Linden Kenny MacAskill Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald Anne McLaughlin Carol Monaghan Gavin Newlands John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Kirsten Oswald Tommy Sheppard Alyn Smith Chris Stephens Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Philippa Whitford Peter Grant Kirsty Blackman the House divide : Ayes 257 , Noes 38 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read the third time and pass . Acting Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman [ Relevant Documents : write evidence to the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee , on Pre - appointment hearing : the parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman , report to the House on 21 March 2024 , HC 558 . ] motion make , and question propose , that an humble Address be present to his Majesty , pray that his Majesty will appoint Rebecca Hilsenrath to the office of act Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration and act Health Service Commissioner for England , in accordance with section 3A of the Parliamentary Commissioner Act 1967 and paragraph 2 of Schedule 1 to the Health Service Commissioners Act 1993 . — ( Alex Burghart . ) at this juncture of the evening , at the risk of make myself even more unpopular with colleague , I intend to speak briefly to the motion . I be prepared to allow the Minister at least five minute for an exposition of why we be in this situation and to happily take the remain 85 , but I might be more charitable for the sake of colleague . the motion as it appear on the Order Paper be seemingly innocuous , but behind it there be a short story to be tell — one that very few be aware of . the saga , if I may call it that , of the appointment of a new Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman for England begin in the summer of last year . an appointment panel be assemble , of which I be a member . the second permanent secretary at the Department of Health and Social Care , an independent member and the former president of the International Ombudsman Institute be also member , and the panel be ably chair by Philippa Helme , late of this parish — as many of we will remember , she be a senior Clerk . we go about our business diligently , sift through an initial 52 application for the role , longliste and shortlist . we then take on a day ' s interview during which we interview four candidate . we judge three of they to be appointable , and put forward a recommend name to the Prime Minister . I be sure we be all aware , but I shall repeat it to refresh our memory , that " the Cabinet Manual " make it very clear in paragraph 5 . 40 that " the Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration , know as the Parliamentary Ombudsman , be an officer of the House of Commons appoint by the Crown and be independent of the Government . in recognition of the Ombudsman ' s relationship with Parliament , the House now lead on the recruitment to the role . " unfortunately , the name put forward — I be not go to say that person ' s name , so as to protect their privacy at this juncture — have seemingly be decline by no . 10 . give that no . 10 be notify of the name in January and it be now March , some time have elapse , during which it would surely have be possible to confer that seal of approval . clearly , thing be now more topical , give last week ' s report from the ombudsman on the woman ' s stage pension age . maybe that have sharpen the focus , but in wind up the debate — if we can call it that — might my very able hon . friend the Minister for the constitution , in whose hand the constitution of this country be always safe and sound , be able to elaborate on what have happen ? why be there the need to appoint a temporary ombudsman ? I have absolutely no problem at all with Rebecca Hilsenrath , who be the chief executive of the organisation ; I be sure she will do a splendid job . none the less , it be somewhat irregular that after a recruitment process last several month in which proper procedure have be follow , it seem that no . 10 be not prepared to recognise the recommend name from the recruitment panel . could my hon . friend explain ? I thank the hon . member for Hazel Grove ( Mr Wragg ) for his introduction , and we look forward to more information come forward . we support the motion to appoint an act parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman . the post of the PHSO combine the two statutory role of parliamentary commissioner for administration and health service commissioner for England . as member of this House , we all know the important role that the ombudsman play in our system to provide an independent complaint handle service . the PHSO make final decision after complaint that Government Departments , a range of other public body in the UK or the NHS in England have not act properly or fairly , or have provide a poor service . the finding from the PHSO ' s casework be share with Parliament to help its scrutiny of public service provider and , more widely , to help drive improvement in public service . I put on record my thank to Philippa Helme , the recruitment lead and chair of the recruitment panel , and her panel for their work in identify and interview candidate . the whole House will want to wish the act ombudsman , Rebecca Hilsenrath , who be also the chief executive officer of the PHSO , well while the search for her new boss be finalise . I know that member on both side will want to send their thank and good wish to Rob Behrens , the outgoing ombudsman , for his sterling work lead the PHSO since 2017 . I remember he at Coventry Polytechnic back in the day . Rob have an outstanding record of public service , investigate suspect failure in our public service and help people seek redress . we only have to read his recent interview with the Guardian to appreciate his dedication to the family and victim of public maladministration , particularly in the NHS . in it , he raise concern about a " cover - up culture " in the NHS that lead to avoidable death and family be deny the truth about their love one , argue that whistleblower be be victimise and that Ministers and NHS leader be do too little to change the organisation ' s culture . the ombudsman have also be in the news this last week , because he have publish his final report into communication about change in the state pension age for woman bear in the 1950 , which mean that some woman bear in the 1950s have very little notice of an increase in their state pension age , and therefore few year to prepare and plan . this be a serious report that require serious consideration . the PHSO have rightly say that it be for the Government to respond , and we will continue to press they to do so . these recent news story highlight the high - profile work of the ombudsman , but we know that member refer case to the service day in and day out , try to get redress for problem with our public service that have affect our constituent ' live . the ombudsman be an important and vital tool for people across our country who be try to get answer and recourse . I hope that we will soon debate a motion on the permanent replacement for Mr Behrens , and I look forward to the House panel complete its work . at the outset , I would like to pay tribute to the outgoing ombudsman , Rob Behrens CBE , who step down at the end of this month after serve the statutory maximum term of seven year . I would like to thank he for the great work he have do to transform the PHSO . for example , he have improve complaint handling , establish an independent expert advisory panel to inform decision making , and set up Europe ' s first ombudsman academy to build capability . he have also introduce new way of working , include mediation in casework . on this House ' s behalf , I praise Rob for his achievement and wish he all the very good for the future . the campaign to recruit a new ombudsman commence at the beginning of October 2023 . the House - appoint recruitment panel make a recommendation to the Prime Minister in January , as my hon . friend the Member for Hazel Grove ( Mr Wragg ) say a few moment ago . this be an important and high - profile role , so it be very important that the process take as long as be necessary to appoint the right person . until then , and to ensure continuity for the PHSO , it be necessary to appoint an act commissioner . Mr Behrens have reach the end of the statutory maximum term of seven year , so it be necessary for we to have an act commissioner before a final appointment be make . the Government very much support Rebecca Hilsenrath ' s appointment to this role , as we believe she have the ability and experience to lead the PHSO until a new ombudsman be appoint . she join the PHSO as director of external affair , strategy and communication in 2021 , and she be appoint its chief executive officer in July 2023 . the question for my hon . friend be : will the Prime Minister sign off on the name that be put to he by the recruitment panel in January ? that will be a matter for the Prime Minister . as my hon . friend will have hear I say a few moment ago , it be very important that this process be follow thoroughly and diligently to make sure that the correct appointment be make . I also want to put on the record my thank to Mr Rob Behrens , not least for the way he support one of my constituent . however , my concern be that the Minister and the Prime Minister have have plenty of time to review the appointment . by put an interim person in place , there will be disruption when a new person come into place . do the Minister not also recognise that there be much work to be do in reduce the number of complaint and address the real need of our constituent , who need redress for the serious issue they be raise ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right that this be an extremely important role . that be why , in look for a temporary head , we have choose someone with an enormous amount of experience within the ombudsman itself . there will be no disruption ; there will be great continuity . she point to the amount of time it be take to sign off the role . while I appreciate that she would like to have it now , look back , the appointment of Mr Behrens seven year ago take almost a year , so it be not unusual for appointment to take more than a couple of month . with that say , in accordance with section 3A of the Parliamentary Commissioner Act 1967 and paragraph 2 of schedule 1 to the Health Service Commissioners Act 1993 , I commend Rebecca Hilsenrath to the House for the role of acting commissioner . question put and agree to . Deputy Speakers order , that , far to the Orders of 30 January , 23 February and 26 October 2023 , paragraph ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of the Order of 19 December 2022 relate to the appointment of Sir Roger Gale as Deputy Speaker and to the exercise of the function of the Chairman of Ways and Means shall continue to have effect up to and include 23 July 2024 . — ( Penny Mordaunt . ) Westminister Hall : Sitting Times Ordered , ( 1 ) that , with effect from 15 April , the follow amendment to Standing Orders be make : in Standing Order no . 10 ( sitting in Westminster Hall ) , paragraph ( 1 ) ( c ) , leave out " 1 . 30 pm " and insert " 12 . 30 pm " . ( 2 ) that this amendment shall have effect for the remainder of this Parliament . — ( Penny Mordaunt . ) I remind member present petition that they be restrict to read out the material allegation contain in the petition , the prayer of the petition and a very short statement on the party from whom it come . Petition - Recommendations of the Infected Blood Inquiry I rise to present this petition on behalf of the people of Newport West , many of whom have be in touch with I in recent week and month to express their justifiable rage at the contaminated blood scandal . I particularly acknowledge Mrs Hazel Jones and Ms Shirley Newnham , two strong local woman who have sign this petition . I also acknowledge my indefatigable and brilliant right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , who have demonstrate such leadership on this issue . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Newport West , declare that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait for too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002940 ] I rise to present this petition on behalf of all those in my constituency of Weaver Vale affect by the contaminated blood scandal . I commend all campaigner , include my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) . my constituent Michael be infect with hepatitis C from an NHS treatment . I have raise Michael ' s case since I be elect to Parliament in 2017 . he say : " I feel my life be leave in tatter . " this petition urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the second interim report of the infected blood inquiry without delay . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Weaver Vale Declares that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait far too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002941 ] Petition - UNRWA Funding I rise to present a petition on behalf of the constituent of Linlithgow and East Falkirk in relation to United Nations Relief and Works Agency funding . my constituent have be deeply trouble by the scene emerge from Gaza , where unprecedented level of human suffering have be witness . ten of thousand of innocent woman , child and civilian have already be kill , and a quarter of Gazans be at risk of death from starvation and destitution . humanitarian aid be now beyond critical . I think it worth point out that the petition be prepare prior to Israel ' s refusal to allow UNRWA aid into the north — effectively a death sentence for many . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the UK Government to help protect the right and life of those affect by the War in Gaza by reallocate fund to the UNRWA to ensure the immediate deliverance of humanitarian assistance to address the adverse threat to life of Palestinians . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Linlithgow and East Falkirk , declare that the crisis in Gaza have already result in thousand of death and show no sign of a resolution ; far declare that UNRWA have warn that not enough aid be enter the besiege Gaza strip , and that a quarter of the Gazan population have be determine as an IPC Stage 5 crisis , which mean that they be under immediate threat of death from starvation and destitution ; note that whilst the allegation against the 12 employee of the UNRWA be serious and must be investigate thoroughly , the UNRWA operate in the West Bank , Syria , Lebanon , and Jordan as well as Gaza , and the UK government punish civilian in these place by pausing funding will have significant humanitarian repercussion . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the UK Government to help protect the right and life of those affect by the War in Gaza by reallocate fund to the UNRWA to ensure the immediate deliverance of humanitarian assistance to address the adverse threat to life of Palestinians . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002942 ] Petition - Bank Closures in Paisley and Renfrewshire North I rise to present a petition on behalf of my Paisley and Renfrewshire North constituent . six year ago , almost to the day , I present a petition about the Royal Bank of Scotland close its renfrew branch , leave one RBS branch for the entire constituency . since then , both Santander and tsb have also close , leave only the Bank of Scotland . have completely modernise that branch , we have hope that it would have be around for a wee while at least , but sadly not as Lloyds have decide to close the Renfrew and Bridge of Weir Bank of Scotland branch , thus leave a grow town of 26 , 000 and a village where do anything without a car be already difficult without a bank . nearly 800 people have sign my petition in a short space of time to stop the branch closure . thank to Good Food , Card Box , the Co - op in Bridge of Weir and Katie ' s kitchen for help to collect signature . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Paisley and Renfrewshire North , declare that the closure of two Bank of Scotland branch in Paisley and Renfrewshire North constituency will have a detrimental impact on the local community ; note that the decision will leave 70 , 000 constituent with access to just two bank branch ; further note that the removal of high street branch exacerbate the inequality of certain group , such as those in low income , people with disability , rural community , senior citizen and small business owner ; and far declare that all banking group have a duty to community to provide in person service thus alleviate barrier to access . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to consider the concern of the petitioner and take immediate action to ensure that resident in Renfrew and Bridge of Weir have access to a local banking provision . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002944 ] petition - Warwickshire Hunt I rise to present a petition on behalf of resident of Warwickshire . locally , there have be a separate petition sign by some 2 , 000 resident relate to this same issue : the matter of Warwickshire police and the Warwickshire hunt agree a secret protocol , follow an alleged crime by the Warwickshire hunt in December 2022 . resident have raise their concern over the relationship between Warwickshire police and the police and crime commissioner , who be understand to be a member of the Countryside Alliance — an organisation that campaign for foxhunt . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to require that Warwickshire Police publish the content of the protocol . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of Warwickshire , declare that on Wednesday December 14th 2022 , Warwickshire Police issue a Community Protection Notice ( CPN ) to the Warwickshire Hunt Limited after repeat anti - social use of public road in Warwickshire ; note that the hunt put in an appeal mean the CPN be unenforceable until the appeal have be hear ; further note that the CPN would have be a sensible and reasonable solution to keep the community safe on the road ; further note that day before it be due in court , Warwickshire Police drop the CPN , replace it with a non - legally bind ' protocol ' ; further note that Warwickshire Police be refuse to publish the content of this secret agreement they now have with the Warwickshire Hunt ; further note that it have be report that Warwickshire ' s Police and Crime Commissioner be a membership of Countryside Alliance which campaign for fox hunting ; and far declare that it would be in the good interest of the public and police to bring full transparency to this issue and make the protocol public . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to require that Warwickshire Police publish the content of the protocol . and the petitioner remain etc . ] [ p002945 ] Taiwan Strait Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Ruth Edwards . ) it be always a pleasure to see you in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker . I begin by say the obvious : it have be a busy day for I , my good friend the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) and the hon . member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) as we contend with China , the big threat and policy challenge that we face and obviously central to this Adjournment debate on Taiwan . before I get fully into those remark , I want to put on record my thank to the Inter - Parliamentary Alliance on China secretariat , in particular Luke de Pulford , which do so much work for I and parliamentarian across the House on all our issue relate to China . the support it have give I for this debate be no different . it be entirely right to start the debate on Taiwan by congratulate its new President - elect , Lai Ching - te , on his stunning victory in the recent presidential election . I also pay tribute to the outgoing President of Taiwan , Tsai Ing - wen , whom I have the pleasure of meeting in late 2022 in Taipei . it have be say that the US President be the leader of the free world , but these day we could all agree that that burden be share beyond the Oval Office by some other who be willing to stand up to authoritarianism and stand in defence of the democratic open society against the authoritarian closed alternative . Taiwan ' s outgoing President , along with other such as Ukraine ' s President Zelensky or Estonia ' s Prime Minister Kallas , be such a leader . those of we in the House who believe in open society and the international rule - base system owe a great debt to those such as President Tsai Ing - wen for her public service . since the recent presidential election in January , the context of cross - strait relation have change . Beijing have seek to establish a new normal through an increase campaign of intimidation and grey zone aggression against Taiwan . China have respond to the outcome of the election by snatch a diplomatic ally , nauru . it have alter an air route in the Taiwan strait and it be grow increasingly aggressive in its control of Taiwan ' s Kinmen Islands . reference to a " peaceful reunification " have be drop entirely , and China ' s defence spending now stand at 7 . 2 % of gdp — more than double what it be a decade ago . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? on the hon . Gentleman ' s birthday no less , I continue the tradition of give way to he . I thank the hon . gentleman for bring forward this debate . I think it would be in order for I to say for the benefit of Hansard that I congratulate the hon . Gentleman and the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) and other in this Chamber for their courageous stand , undiminishe as they be . do the hon . Gentleman agree that the treatment of Taiwan exemplify the attitude show by the Chinese to democracy and freedom ? it be also show in their disgraceful behaviour towards the personal privacy of the hon . Gentleman and other and in hack website . do he agree that step must be take to show that western democracy will not stand idly by while democratic decision be overturn and China rule not by agreement but by aggression ? the hon . Gentleman pre - empt much of my speech . I agree with every word he say . China continue its aggressive sabre - rattle in the Taiwan strait by send warship and plane across the median line of the Taiwan strait and air defence identification zone . it continue its enormous campaign of cyber - aggression against Taiwan ' s public and private institution , include its critical infrastructure . early this month a report by Taiwan ' s Defence Ministry describe Beijing as have launch " multi - front saturate grey - zone " tactic to harass Taiwan . the previous report in September 2023 note that China have " increase the scale , frequency and intensity of drill and exercise against Taiwan " in order to strengthen its operational preparation for a future invasion . China be also deploy civilian asset to press its claim , dispatch civil aircraft , unmanned aerial vehicle and weather balloon to fly close to and over Taiwan . it be use marine survey vessel and hydrographic survey ship as a cover for its military . it be also deploy a maritime militia , the large fleet ever put to sea , to advance geopolitical objective . those move be exactly what I mean by try to establish a new normal , unilaterally change the status quo across the Taiwan strait and escalating tension in a region where China ' s expansionist behaviour have see it employ nearly 80 grey zone tactic against neighbouring state . our inability to deter that kind of aggression be what be embolden Beijing and its strategic partner Russia and Iran , undermine our security and international security far . at this point , it be important to consider what the people of Taiwan think . what do taiwanese public opinion tell we ? it be important to stress the value that people in Taiwan clearly place on have an open and democratic way of life . some 67 % of people identify primarily as Taiwanese . only 3 % identify as Chinese . nearly half support formal independence . that rise to two - third if maintain the status quo be not possible . only one in 10 want unification with China , but that should not be misread as want unification under Communist party rule . that all stand in stark contrast to the view in mainland China , where more than half the population back a full - scale war to take control of Taiwan . it be also important to stress that China have never — never — rule Taiwan , which be a democracy of 24 million people . when the Minister respond , will she state that the Government be commit to the principle of self - determination , which apply to the people of Taiwan ? although the UK position continue to be define by the one - China policy and the maintenance of the status quo , the one - China policy do not equate to , and have never equate to , an acceptance of Beijing ' s one - China principle that Taiwan be an inalienable part of China , despite what Beijing might say . it be merely a recognition that Beijing make such a claim . by its action , China have unilaterally and consciously change the status quo , and be seek to create the new normal I have outline . it have consistently do so along its border , over the Senkaku island and in the South China sea . my question to the Minister be : why do the Government keep repeat that it be the UK position to maintain the status quo , as the status quo itself be be unilaterally change and erode by China ? part of the reason I want to bring the debate forward be the importance of Taiwan to the global economy , as well as our own economy . in a recent report early this year , Bloomberg Economics estimate that the first - year price tag of a war in the Taiwan strait would sit at around $ 10 trillion , equal to about 10 % of global gdp , while a blockade would equate to about 5 % of the global economy . one company , the Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company , make two in three semiconductor and 90 % of the world ' s most advanced chip . the TSMC make a massive proportion of silicon chip . while the UK have niche strength in semiconductor design and compound conductor , do the hon . Gentleman share the view that Britain will remain dependent on Taiwan for silicon chip for a long time to come ? yes , the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . and this be not just a uniquely british issue ; this be an issue for the entire western and democratic world . chip be just one area of a great number where that overreliance be a threat to our economic and security interest . the total market cap of TSMC ' s 20 customer be worth around $ 7 . 4 trillion . to put that in context , that be over twice the size of the british economy . Taiwan sit at the nexus of shipping lane that connect the world to China , South Korea and Japan . together , they account for 40 % of global manufacturing output . half the global container fleet pass through the strait each year , dwarf the traffic that pass through the Suez canal . with all that in mind , and give that it be the state objective of the CCP to unify Taiwan with the mainland — either by force or by some other form of coercion — may I ask the Minister what model the Government have do of the impact of a war , or a blockade of Taiwan , on the UK economy ? may I also ask she what industry and sector would be most at risk ? be there a strategy for de - risk , and what engagement have there be with industry on a potential shock in the Taiwan strait ? motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Ruth Edwards . ) it be about five year since I open an Adjournment debate , Madam Deputy Speaker , so I hope you will forgive I for forget the rule . let I return to my question to the Minister about de - risk . may I ask what engagement be take place with public institution , not least the devolve government with responsibility for university — just one part of our society that be hugely dependent on cash from China ? I suppose those question can be boil down to this : what be be do to build the economic resilience that be need to prepare we for what would be an economic shock big than the financial crisis and the covid pandemic combine , or — I ask this question early , follow the Government ' s response to the news of chinese espionage — be we again go to turn up to a gunfight with a wooden spoon ? let I turn to the UK ' s relation with Taiwan . the UK be Taiwan ' s third big trading partner in Europe and the 21st large overall , with bilateral trade totalling £ 8 . 6 billion in 2022 . I should also say , to be fair to the Government , that the enhance trade partnership arrangement that the UK sign with Taiwan last November promise further growth , and be a good model for other european country to follow . in response , as be expect , Beijing have demand that the UK stop use trade to improve relation with Taiwan . promote cultural exchange and people - to - people contact be obviously a good thing and we want to see more of it , but yet again Beijing have seek to stop Taiwan do the same . it be persecute artist and cultural figure , which be , of course , create a chilling effect within Taiwan ' s creative industry . I want to say something about Taiwan ' s resilience to hostile disinformation , not least in the context of its experience of deal with such disinformation from China during the recent election . I suggest to the Government that we should work with Taiwan and learn from its experience . during the election we see disinformation attack on a previously unknown scale , include the sponsorship of conspiracy with the aim of undermine trust in the electoral process and in public institution . there be much that we can learn from the way in which Taiwan deal with that . its experience of hostile disinformation attack be extraordinary , and it would be negligent of we not to seek to learn from it . on relation more broadly , there be opportunity for the building of new partnership , new exchange and new relationship , but may I ask the Government to consider review the status of the Taipei Representative Office , as appropriate , give the importance to the UK of Taiwan both as a trading partner and as a country with which we share a common interest and common value ? today ' s age of geopolitical insecurity and competition be one that can not be sit out . Gramsci describe an " interregnum " in which " the old be die " and the new be struggle to be bear . our old way of thinking on China — on Taiwan — be indeed old , and we need new idea fit for the modern age and the challenge that come with it . the China challenge that we must all confront be not , as some think , a faraway foreign policy issue , but the confluence of foreign and domestic policy that touch every aspect of our society : economic , technology , democracy , energy security , trade , and so much more . Taiwan be central to that challenge , and the competition between an open society and a closed society be represent as well as it be in Taiwan in only a few place . just like our friend in Ukraine , our friend in Taiwan want to live in an open and free society , so we must continue to offer they our full support and our full solidarity — not in word , but in action . I ask the Minister genuinely to seek new way to upgrade and modernise our relationship with Taiwan — new partnership , new institution , new collaboration , and new and positive opportunity . we should do that with confidence and a sense of purpose , but in the full knowledge that , in stand with Taiwan , we will be on the right side of history . I be grateful to the hon . member for Glasgow South ( Stewart Malcolm McDonald ) for secure the debate , and I thank he and other hon . member for their thoughtful contribution . I will do my good to respond to all the point that have be raise . Taiwan be a thriving economy of over 23 million people , with whom the UK share both value and deep tie , and member of this House will be familiar with the unique nature of our relationship . although we have no diplomatic relation , we have strong unofficial link build on many shared interest , include security and prosperity in the Indo - Pacific , trade , innovation , climate action and global health . our engagement on these important issue be support by the British Office Taipei and the Taipei Representative Office in London . the UK and Taiwan share a thriving £ 8 billion trade and investment relationship , which encompass a wide range of good and service , not least the UK ' s export of over £ 340 million - worth of Scotch whisky to Taiwan last year alone — always a good statistic . our enhance trade partnership , which we announce last year , will far strengthen this trade relationship . meanwhile , as the hon . Gentleman highlight , Taiwan produce most of the high - performance semiconductor that drive our global digital economy . it therefore have a critical role in the technology supply chain that underpin global market , and it invest heavily in research innovation . the European Union currently have a 9 % market share in semiconductor globally , and have set an ambition for 20 % by the year 2030 . will the Minister enlighten we on the UK ' s ambition for semiconductor manufacture ? I do not have the figure to hand , but we want to see our flourish science and technology co - operation continue to grow . that be set out in the Government ' s national semiconductor strategy that we publish last year , to which I would point the hon . gentleman . we hold regular expert - level talk with Taiwan on a range of important issue , especially energy and health . we be close partner on climate action , and be increasingly share our expertise on offshore wind and multi - use port development . our enhance trade partnership , which be a really important develop area , will far deepen our mutual co - operation on net zero technology , which be vital to both energy security and our shared imperative to keep global temperature from rise even more perilously . the hon . member for Glasgow South eloquently state that the UK ' s long - stand position be that we believe the Taiwan issue should be settle peacefully by people on both side of the strait , without the threat or use of force or coercion . the UK and the wide world have a clear interest in endure peace and stability in the strait and throughout the Indo - Pacific , because a conflict across the strait would have a tragic human cost , but it would also be a tragedy for livelihood across the region and have a wide global impact . Taiwan and the Taiwan strait be vital link in the global economy , drive prosperity and innovation . as the hon . Gentleman highlight , a conflict could destroy world trade by up to 10 % of the global economy , accord to Bloomberg analysis . no country , whether high , middle or low income , could possibly shield itself from the economic repercussion of such a crisis , include China . that be why this Government be clear that we do not support any unilateral attempt to alter the status quo of the Taiwan strait . I would like to assure member that we be continually work to strengthen the UK ' s contingency planning across a range of international challenge , include threat to global supply chain . I hope that member will be aware of the recently launch critical import and supply chain strategy , publish by the Department for Business and Trade , which tackle some of these issue in great depth than I will set out this evening . of course we would all agree with the Minister that none of we want to see change to the status quo — certainly not a violent change to the status quo — in cross - strait relation , but there be a change , and China be create this new normal as we speak . it have be do so for some time now and the strategy of the Government and our western partner be clearly not deter that , so what change will we see from the Minister and from our western partner ? on the issue of the Bloomberg analysis , be there also government analysis and will she publish it ? we have a great deal of work ongoing , as the hon . Gentleman would expect , and in due course I be sure we will bring it to the House . importantly , he have state clearly — I know he speak for all member even though there be only a few of we here this evening — that the UK Government ' s position be one that be hold by all member of the House and that it should be clearly hear in support of that Taiwan status quo . the hon . Member mention that Taiwan hold its presidential and legislative election just a few week ago . as my noble Friend the Foreign Secretary say at the time , those election be testament to Taiwan ' s incredibly vibrant democracy , and I join he in offer warm congratulation to William Lai and his party on his successful election . however , this come at a time when China ' s action be threaten to undermine peace and stability in the strait . China be refuse to renounce the use of force in pursuit of its objective . it be deploy economic power to coerce country with which it disagree over Taiwan , as it do with Lithuania just recently , and it continually take assertive action near Taiwan , include military flight , which be escalate tension . this be not the conduct of a responsible international actor , and it be not conducive to ensure peace and stability across the strait . that be why the UK continue to work with our international partner to underscore the importance of peace and stability in the Taiwan strait , as we do most recently in our statement by G7 leader in December . the Foreign Secretary reiterate this in his statement follow the election that I have just mention . that be why the UK continue to support Taiwan ' s inclusion internationally , where that be clearly in the global public interest . this Government believe that the people of Taiwan have a valuable contribution to make on many issue of global concern , and that the international community should be able to benefit from taiwanese expertise in a range of area . we therefore continue to work hard with our partner to support Taiwan ' s participation in international organisation , as a member where statehood be not a prerequisite and as an observer or guest where it be . for example , we continue to make the case for Taiwan ' s participation at the World Health Assembly , as its inclusion benefit global health , include through its expert participation in technical meeting and information exchange . to conclude , the Government continue the UK ' s long - stand approach to relation across the Taiwan strait . we continue to engage with Taiwan within the bound of our unofficial relationship , which bring many benefit to both of we . we continue to work closely with our international partner to advocate for peace and stability and to discourage any activity that undermine the status quo . we continue to advocate for Taiwan ' s meaningful international participation . through these channel , the UK have an important role to play in support continued peace and stability in the strait , and we can only benefit from that continue engagement with Taiwan as a thriving democracy and an important economic partner . question put and agree to . House adjourn .