Bill Presented Steel Industry ( Special Measures ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Secretary Jonathan Reynolds , support by the Prime Minister , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Pat McFadden , Secretary John Healey , Secretary Ed Miliband , and Secretary Heidi Alexander , present a Bill to make provision about power to secure the continued and safe use of asset of a steel undertaking . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time today , and to be print ( Bill 221 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 158 - en ) . steel Industry ( Special Measures ) bill : business of the House I beg to move , that : ( a ) at this day ' s sit any member of the Panel of Chairs may take the Chair as Deputy Speaker when request to do so by the Speaker , without any formal communication to the House ; ( b ) at its rise this day this House do adjourn until Tuesday 22 April ; and ( c ) the follow provision shall apply to the proceeding on the Steel Industry ( Special Measures ) bill : timetable ( 1 ) ( a ) proceeding on Second Reading and in Committee of the whole House , any proceeding on consideration and proceeding on Third reading shall be take at this day ' s sit in accordance with this order . ( b ) notice of Amendments , new Clauses or new schedule to be move in Committee of the whole House may be accept by the Clerks at the table before the Bill have be read a second time . ( c ) proceeding on Second Reading and in Committee of the whole House , any proceeding on consideration and proceeding on Third reading shall be bring to a conclusion , if not previously conclude , at 2 pm at this day ' s sit . timing of proceeding and question to be put ( 2 ) as soon as the proceeding on the Motion for this order have be conclude , the order for the second reading of the Bill shall be read . ( 3 ) when the Bill have be read a second time : ( a ) it shall , despite Standing Order No . 63 ( Committal of bill not subject to a programme order ) , stand committed to a Committee of the whole House without any question be put ; ( b ) proceeding on the Bill shall stand postpone while the question be put , in accordance with Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( money resolution and way and mean resolution in connection with bill ) , on any financial resolution relate to the Bill ; ( c ) on the conclusion of proceeding on any financial resolution relate to the Bill , proceeding on the Bill shall be resume and the Speaker shall leave the Chair whether or not notice of an instruction have be give . ( 4 ) ( a ) on the conclusion of proceeding in Committee of the whole House , the Chair shall report the Bill to the House without put any question . ( b ) if the Bill be report with amendment , the House shall proceed to consider the Bill as amend without any question be put . ( 5 ) for the purpose of bring any proceeding to a conclusion in accordance with paragraph ( 1 ) , the Chair or Speaker shall forthwith put the following Questions in the same order as they would fall to be put if this order do not apply : ( a ) any question already propose from the chair ; ( b ) any question necessary to bring to a decision a question so propose ; ( c ) the question on any amendment , new Clause or new schedule select by the Chair or Speaker for separate decision ; ( d ) the question on any amendment move or Motion make by a Minister of the Crown ; ( e ) any other question necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude ; and shall not put any other question , other than the question on any motion describe in paragraph ( 15 ) ( a ) of this order . ( 6 ) on a motion so make for a new clause or a new schedule , the Chair or Speaker shall put only the question that the clause or schedule be add to the Bill . ( 7 ) if two or more question would fall to be put under paragraph ( 5 ) ( d ) on successive amendment move or Motions make by a Minister of the Crown , the Chair or Speaker shall instead put a single question in relation to those amendment or motion . ( 8 ) if two or more question would fall to be put under paragraph ( 5 ) ( e ) in relation to successive provision of the Bill , the Chair shall instead put a single question in relation to those provision , except that the question shall be put separately on any Clause of or schedule to the Bill which a Minister of the Crown have signify an intention to leave out . consideration of Lords Amendments ( 9 ) ( a ) any Lords Amendments to the Bill may be consider forthwith without any question be put ; and any proceeding interrupt for that purpose shall be suspend accordingly . ( b ) proceeding on consideration of Lords Amendments shall be bring to a conclusion ( so far as not previously conclude ) one hour after their commencement ; and any proceeding suspend under sub - paragraph ( a ) shall thereupon be resume . ( 10 ) paragraph ( 2 ) to ( 7 ) of Standing Order no . 83F ( programme order : conclusion of proceeding on consideration of Lords amendment ) apply for the purpose of bring any proceeding to a conclusion in accordance with paragraph ( 9 ) of this order . subsequent stage ( 11 ) ( a ) any further message from the Lords on the Bill may be consider forthwith without any question be put ; and any proceeding interrupt for that purpose shall be suspend accordingly . ( b ) proceeding on any further message from the Lords shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement ; and any proceeding suspend under sub - paragraph ( a ) shall thereupon be resume . ( 12 ) paragraph ( 2 ) to ( 5 ) of Standing Order No . 83 g ( Programme order : conclusion of proceeding on further message from the Lords ) apply for the purpose of bring any proceeding to a conclusion in accordance with paragraph ( 11 ) of this order . Reasons Committee ( 13 ) paragraph ( 2 ) to ( 6 ) of Standing Order No . 83H ( programme order : reason committee ) apply in relation to any committee to be appoint to draw up reason after proceeding have be bring to a conclusion in accordance with this order . miscellaneous ( 14 ) Standing Order no . 82 ( Business Committee ) shall not apply in relation to any proceeding to which this order apply . ( 15 ) ( a ) no Motion shall be make , except by a Minister of the Crown , to alter the order in which any proceeding on the Bill be take , to recommit the Bill or to vary or supplement the provision of this order . ( b ) no notice shall be require of such a Motion . ( c ) such a motion may be consider forthwith without any question be put ; and any proceeding interrupt for that purpose shall be suspend accordingly . ( d ) the question on such a motion shall be put forthwith ; and any proceeding suspend under sub - paragraph ( c ) shall thereupon be resume . ( e ) Standing Order no . 15 ( 1 ) ( exempt business ) shall apply to proceeding on such a Motion . ( 16 ) ( a ) no dilatory motion shall be make in relation to proceeding to which this order apply except by a Minister of the Crown . ( b ) the Question on any such Motion shall be put forthwith . ( 17 ) the start of any debate under Standing Order No . 24 ( emergency debate ) to be hold on a day on which the Bill have be set down to be take as an order of the day shall be postpone until the conclusion of any proceeding on that day to which this order apply . ( 18 ) proceeding to which this order apply shall not be interrupt under any Standing Order relate to the sitting of the House . ( 19 ) at today ' s sit the Speaker shall not adjourn the House until : ( a ) any message from the Lords on the Bill have be receive and any Committee to draw up reason which have be appoint at that sitting have report ; ( b ) the Speaker have notify the Royal Assent to any Act agree upon by both Houses . ( 20 ) at the conclusion of proceeding the Speaker shall adjourn the House without put any question . I do not intend to detain the House for long , as we have an important debate to follow , but may I put on record my thank to you , Mr Speaker , for agree to recall Parliament today ? as ever , you have be incredibly accommodate and understanding . you recognise the scale and urgency of what we need to do today , and I know that these be very important matter to you personally , and to the House as a whole . may I also thank the House staff , who have respond quickly and professionally to facilitate this extraordinary meeting of the House , and all those colleague who be here at such short notice ? we meet in these special circumstance because the Government need to act decisively , at pace and with urgency to ensure that the steelwork blast furnace of British Steel be maintain and keep go , save thousand of job and secure our domestic production of virgin steel . the Secretary of State for Business and Trade will shortly set out the power that he need to do this , through the Steel Industry ( Special Measures ) Bill , publish online this morning . if the House agree to this business of the House motion , the arrangement today provide for Second Reading , Committee , Report and Third reading to be consider by the House until 2 pm . the House will then wait to consider any message from the Lords today , before adjourn again until Tuesday 22 April . I also send our thank to member and staff in the House of Lords for return today . member may be aware that the Lords sit from 12 pm for a " take note " debate on the Government ' s proposal , before be expect to consider all stage of the Bill today . I hope all member can work together constructively today on the passage of the Bill , and I be grateful to you , Mr Speaker , for facilitate this important request . I hope all member will agree to this motion , and I commend it to the House . I call the act shadow Leader of the House . I associate this side of the House with the remark that the right hon . Lady have make about staff come in today . we be incredibly grateful to they . I be sure we be go to hear a lot today about urgency , move at pace and the rest of it , but the truth be that the Government have make a total pig ' s breakfast of this whole arrangement . the fact be that anyone who have be pay any attention to this story over the past few month have know that this be come down the track . the House be sit — [ interruption . ] order . we have come back on a Saturday ; that do not mean it be " Crackerjack " day . we be go to listen . the House be sit on Monday and on Tuesday , and on those day my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Immingham ( Martin Vickers ) raise these issue . the fact be that the Government make bad deal for Britain when negotiate , and , as ever , they be make a bad deal . it be a huge discourtesy to the House that we see this Bill only 90 minute before the start of the sitting . far - reach power be be give to the Government — power not see in legislation , really , in the past 40 year . I very much hope that the Government will apologise for the way that they have do thing , for have take their eye off the ball yet again , and for have negotiate badly for the british people . question put and agree to . Steel Industry ( Special Measures ) Bill Second read I remind Members that , under the Order of the House of today , notice of amendment and new clause to be move in Committee of the whole House may be — [ interruption . ] this be very serious . they may be accept in person by the Clerks at the table in the Chamber before the Bill have be read a second time . the deadline for amendment table in this way be 12 noon . any amendment table to the Bill will be treat as manuscript amendment , mean that only those table before 12 noon and select by the Chairman for debate at Committee stage will be distribute and publish . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . we meet in exceptional circumstance to take exceptional action in what be exceptional time . our request to recall Parliament be not one we make lightly . I be genuinely grateful to hon . member in all part of the House for their co - operation , and for be here today as we seek to pass emergency legislation that be unequivocally in our national interest . I thank in particular the staff in Parliament for facilitate today ' s sit , and the Prime Minister , the Chancellor and the Home Secretary for their support . indeed , we can take this action today only because of the restoration of economic stability and the dedicated resource for steel in the last Budget . I acknowledge my hon . friend the Member for Scunthorpe ( Sir Nicholas Dakin ) , the hon . member for Brigg and Immingham ( Martin Vickers ) and all my hon . friend from Teesside for their advocacy and engagement on this matter , throughout , on behalf of their constituent . as hon , member will know , since take office , the Government have be negotiate in good faith with British Steel ' s owner , Jingye . we have work tirelessly to find a way forward , make a generous offer of support to British Steel that include sensible , common - sense condition to protect the workforce , protect taxpayer ' money , and create a commercially viable company for the future . despite our offer to Jingye be substantial , it want much more — an excessive amount , frankly . however , we remain committed to negotiation , but over the past few day , it have become clear that the intention of Jingye be to refuse to purchase sufficient raw material to keep the blast furnace run . in fact , its intention be to cancel and refuse to pay for exist order . the company would therefore have irrevocably and unilaterally close down primary steelmaking at British Steel . I want to make it absolutely clear that , separately from any conversation about a possible deal to co - invest in new infrastructure , the British Government offer to purchase the raw material in a way that would have ensure no loss whatsoever for Jingye in maintain the blast furnace for a period of time . a counter - offer be instead make by Jingye : that we transfer hundred of million of pound to it , without any condition to prevent that money , and potentially other asset , be immediately transfer to China . Jingye also refuse the condition of keep the blast furnace maintain and in good working order . even if I have agree to those term , I could not guarantee that further request for money would not then be make . in that situation , with the clock be run down , do nothing be not an option . we could not , will not and never will stand idly by while the heat seep from the UK ' s remain blast furnace , without any planning , due process or respect for the consequence . that be why I need colleague here today . from what the Secretary of State have describe , it be begin to sound as though Jingye be try to manoeuvre the Government into a recompensed nationalisation . will he make it plain that if it try to manoeuvre we into nationalisation , we will pay not more than a penny for the business ? to be clear , where there be a transfer of ownership to the state , we would always pay the fair market value for the asset . in this case , the market value be effectively zero , so I take the right hon . Gentleman ' s point entirely . I would say that the intention of Jingye have not be to engineer that situation ; its intention have be to keep the downstream mill , which colleague will know be fundamental to our construction and steel industry , and supply they from China , rather than from Scunthorpe ; that be the situation . be it now the view of the Government that primary steel production in the United Kingdom be an override national security issue ? as the right hon . Gentleman will know — we have have this exchange at the Dispatch Box before — I believe that the capacity for primary steel production be important . the steel strategy look at new way of ensure that , and at not just protect the past , but at what the future may bring . direct reduce iron technology be of significant potential interest to we for the future . however , this situation — involve the last remain blast furnace , and the proposition put to we — be exceptional and unique , and I need all colleague to recognise that . the legislation ahead of we today be therefore a proportionate and necessary step . it allow we to take control of British Steel ' s blast furnace , maintain steel production and , by extension , protect the company ' s 3 , 500 - strong workforce . the Bill do not transfer ownership to the Government . we will have to deal with that matter at a later date . I take the decision that give the exceptional nature of a recall , it would be well to limit the power in the Bill , which be still significant , rather than introduce more complex matter of property right and public ownership at this time . the Secretary of State be take extremely extensive power for the Government , and they apply to what he describe in the Bill as " specify asset " . as far as I can see , they be not limit to blast furnace or asset require for make virgin steel . do he accept that he be leave two hand on the tiller , when it come to the operation of all the steelmaking company to which the Bill may apply ? in other word , he be say that the Government can direct a company in relation to specify asset , but that company can do other thing of its own initiative . do he recognise that he be create considerable legal complexity in the operation of those company go forward ? why be that the right approach ? I be extremely grateful to the right hon . and learn Gentleman for his thoughtful question . the fundamental purpose of the Bill be to allow I , as Secretary of State , and this government to take control of this situation . the reason why this be the Steel Industry ( Special Measures ) Bill , and not a Bill specific to British Steel , be , as he will know , that the latter would be a hybrid Bill , and introduce that would be a far more complex procedure . with the clock be run down , that be not an available option . the Bill broadly replicate the situation that would apply if the Civil Contingencies Act 2004 have be trigger , but rather than seek to meet the threshold to trigger that Act , I be seek parliamentary permission — the consent of this House and the other place — to take control , which I think be a well way forward . I want to make it clear to the right hon . and learn Gentleman and to the House that I want this to be a temporary position — I do not want these power a minute long than be necessary — but I need the power to rectify and save the situation . give that the Secretary of State have infer that the owner , Jingye , be not and have not act in good faith , surely the right thing to do be to seize this great opportunity now , this weekend , and nationalise British Steel ? a transfer of ownership to the state remain on the table . it may well , at this stage , give the behaviour of the company , be the likely option . however , our aspiration for British Steel remain a co - investment agreement with a private sector partner to secure a long - term transformation . the action I seek to take today be not a magic wand or a panacea . the state can not fund the long - term transformation of British Steel , nor would it want to , but a failure to act today would prevent any more desirable outcome from even be consider , and that , again , be why we must act today . I applaud my right hon . friend for his decisive action in this matter . I have only have a chance to read the Bill for 10 minute — [ interruption . ] that be not a criticism ; it be the natural procedure of this House . the Bill could not be lay until First Reading . the Bill talk about compensation . he have make the point that he be not plan to take over and run British Steel , which be not the desirable option , but have he do some sort of impact assessment on the potential range of cost to the taxpayer in these circumstance ? I think my hon . friend refer to clause 7 , which deal with compensation . again , let I be clear : this be a clause that we would put in any Bill . we be not Russia , and we do not sequester asset . the language in the clause — the legal definition — be something that we would use in most standard procedure . go back to the question from the right hon . member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) , the effective market value of Jingye be zero , so there be no inconsistency between those two point . what be happen today be something that mining community like Swadlincote , in my constituency of South Derbyshire , will be feel deeply in their soul . it be something that they could have only dream of back in the 1980 , when they want a Government who have their back and prioritise the national interest . instead , they have a Conservative Government who sell they down the river . do the Secretary of State agree that this be a pivotal moment in our history , because we have a Labour Government prioritise our people and the national interest ? this be a significant moment . how a country handle economic transition be not about nostalgia for the past — we have to embrace the future — but how we help our people , our industry and our nation get to that point be key . my hon . friend and I come from similar place , and we have not manage these transition particularly well in the past . we be meet this weekend to discuss the potential loss of thousand of job , which be what be on the line . the fact that we do not accept that , and that we will do thing differently , be a welcome change . we will scrutinise this Bill today , but we want to do so in a constructive fashion . give the huge damage that President Trump ' s tariff have do to the british steel industry , accelerate this crisis , do the Secretary of State agree that any Member of this House who actively campaign for President Trump ' s election and cheer he on have behave shamefully unpatriotically and should apologise to british steelworker ? I be extremely grateful to the right hon . Member and his party for their presence today . he will not draw I on the other principal issue that we have be deal with at the Department for Business and Trade over the last few day , but to be clear , the issue around British Steel be about more than the imposition of tariff . the tariff be not welcome , and I do not think there be justification for they to be put in place . I believe that it be in our interest , but also in the US ' s interest , to agree a position that remove those tariff in the interest of steelworker . I fully understand the nature of what the right hon . Gentleman be bring forward . I also understand some of the requirement for speed in this case , and we can argue about whether this should have be do before . have quickly look through the Bill , I do not see a sunset clause . I ask about that not because I want the Government to set a particular date , but because such a clause would bring they back here to debate whether the process should be extend . it would therefore put a reasonable limit on Government activity without debate . can he explain why there be no sunset clause in the Bill ? I absolutely understand and welcome the right hon . Gentleman ' s question . I do not want these power for a minute more than be necessary . I can not say at the minute , have draft the Bill , the timeframe for which they will be require , but I will endeavour — and I commit at the Dispatch Box — to keep the House update . perhaps I will ask the Business and Trade Committee for its involvement , in order to make it clear how long we believe it will be . to be absolutely specific , where we make an order in relation to control of a steel undertaking , we can revoke the regulation once that control have be establish and be no long require . rise — I know there be huge interest , but I will make a little more progress and that might deal with some of the matter member want to raise . this be what it mean to be a government unashamedly on the side of work people — one that will never hesitate to take action to protect this nation ' s asset and economic security . I understand that some have ask about precedent or refer to other troubled industrial situation . to be clear again , this be an exceptional and unique situation . the question for all Members be whether we as a country want to continue to possess a steel industry . do we want to make the construction steel and rail we need here in the UK , or do we want to be dependent on overseas import ? as a government , we be not passive in any way about the future of british industry . the Secretary of State have say this be " unique " and " exceptional " and make reference to energy transition and thousand of job . in the scottish context , many mind right now will be focus on the situation in Grangemouth , where we know that hundred of job will be lose directly , as well as thousand in the supply chain . be I , or perhaps even the local Member , the hon . member for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) , to bring forward a similar Bill to save Scotland ' s only oil refinery and give the Secretary of State the executive power to do as he please — as he be do with British Steel — would the Labour party back it as it be back this Bill today ? I be pleased for the chance to address this issue . the importance of Grangemouth be why this Labour Government have pledge £ 200 million to secure its long - term future . it be an important asset , but it be not the only remain refinery ; it be one of three cracker in the United Kingdom — that be important . specifically , it be not a comparable situation , and the behaviour of the company be not comparable to the case of British Steel . I also say to the right hon . member , and indeed to all Members , that this be why we fight and fight again to secure the future of british shipbuilding by save all four of the Harland and Wolff site in England , Scotland and Northern Ireland . the right hon . Member will know that the commercial interest be not in the scottish yard , but we hold they together precisely because of our commitment to Scotland and the Union . it be also why within week of take office we secure a well deal for the worker at Port Talbot . we have repeatedly act , and we will continue to act no matter how hard the circumstance . do my right hon . friend agree that the failure of the Tories and the SNP to develop an industrial strategy for Scotland mean that they have no plan for Grangemouth ? they know for over a decade about the problem at the refinery and do nothing . do he agree that as soon as Labour come into power , we get to work and deliver support for the site , the workforce and the local community ? I endorse my hon . friend ' s comment entirely . I do not believe there be a history of the SNP call for the nationalisation of Grangemouth . it be , as ever , on the bandwagon . I think we all recognise that the SNP do not campaign on its record in run Scotland ; it campaign on grievance . my hon . friend be absolutely right that the contrast be with a Labour Government in this place who be on the side of work people everywhere . the Secretary of State mention Port Talbot . I appreciate the unprecedented circumstance we find ourselves in today , when the Government have rightly move quickly to safeguard primary steelmaking , and the Secretary of State will be very mindful of the extraordinarily difficult circumstance that the steel industry in south Wales have face . I recognise the £ 80 million fund available , but can he make sure that south Wales and Llanwern benefit from their share of the £ 2 . 5 billion clean steel fund ? can that also be at the forefront of his mind ? I be incredibly pleased to have the chance to answer the point my hon . friend raise . the Port Talbot deal be originally negotiate by the previous Government . I do try to reopen it ; I go to see Chandra in Davos and fly to Mumbai to talk to he about it . to be frank , I keep Port Talbot open on polling day , because it would have close due to the industrial action that almost take place . the previous Government be nowhere to be see , even before the result of the election be in . we be not able to reopen the deal , but we do negotiate a well deal . as a result , Port Talbot be in a strong position than British Steel , because it have a long - term future in place . [ interruption . ] this be because we improve on the deal that the Leader of the opposition botch at the time . to be clear , the £ 2 . 5 billion green steel fund the Chancellor have put in place be in addition to the £ 500 million already go to Port Talbot . that be an incredibly important point . I thank the Secretary of State for give way and for act in the national interest — the complete opposite of the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) , who say he be against intervene to save British Steel two year ago . do the Secretary of State think the hon . Gentleman say that in the british interest or in the foreign interest the Reform party seek to serve ? I believe that that be on the record . I hope to convince all colleague today to support this action , which be in the national interest . when the blast furnace in Port Talbot close down last September , this Government could have take exactly the same legislative action as they have choose to take today . we will endeavour to amend the Bill to include Wales , because there be still the opportunity for this Government to make a real difference to the community of Port Talbot and the 2 , 800 job that have be lose there . I do not want to embarrass the right hon . Lady , but the blast furnace have already close at Port Talbot . they be not available to be save — that situation have move on . let I stress again : Port Talbot be in a strong position because it have that long - term future in place and the potential additional investment through the green steel fund . rise — I think I must progress , Mr Speaker . I can see your indication to do so . will my right hon . friend give way ? I will take one more intervention . I thank my right hon . friend for give way and for the consider way in which he be look after the national interest . the steel union — the GMB , Community and Unite — would like clarification that any board that be set up will have at its heart the steelworker who have keep the steelwork go through thick and thin . we remain in close engagement with all the union , which have be monitor the situation closely . again , I reiterate that the Bill be not in itself about a change of ownership ; it be about a change of control to rectify the situation . however , I will certainly have regard to the comment my hon . friend have make and , of course , the role of the workforce at all stage . we will never accept the argument that steelmaking be a sunset industry . steel be vital to every bit of the modern economy . domestic demand for steel be set only to go up , not down . in the past few week alone , we have see Heathrow airport announce multibillion - pound expansion plan require 400 , 000 tonne of new steel , and Universal Studios confirm it will be build Europe ' s big theme park and , where possible , will use UK - make steel to do so . this government be back the builder , not the blocker . with the action we take today , we have the chance to feed that boom with steel make in Britain . the legislation we be set out today will help to end the uncertainty that have be hang over British Steel ' s Scunthorpe site for too long . I welcome the Opposition ' s support today for this recall , but this issue should have be resolve year ago . I believe they may now view it as a mistake to have give this essential national asset to this company . I have to address the statement make by the Leader of the Opposition yesterday , which I do as a matter of genuine regret . she claim that while she do my job , she negotiate a modernisation plan with British Steel to build an electric arc furnace at Teesside , follow by one at Scunthorpe . I wish to make it unequivocally clear to the House that the new Government inherit no such deal . we could not renege on that deal because it do not exist . on day one , I be tell that there have be a lack of progress on this matter to date . rise — if such a deal be negotiate , somehow in secret , I ask the Leader of the Opposition to say how much money she agree to give Jingye for this deal and what condition be place on it . to state the obvious , build two electric arc furnace in two different location would be more expensive than build one in one location , and , give that Jingye ' s request to build two furnace in Scunthorpe be for £ 1 . 2 billion in taxpayer ' support , what — on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I would like advice on how to counter the point the Secretary of State be make , give that they be factually incorrect and a complete misrepresentation of the situation that he inherit . it have just be clarify by your good self . I can not make the Secretary of State give way when you want to come to the Dispatch Box , but I be sure that if he notice you do so again , he may wish to . this be an excellent chance to clarify that . if the Leader of the opposition agree a deal with Jingye to cause massive job loss in Scunthorpe and transfer the job to a completely different place , and at high cost than the request the company make to we , I think she should be able to tell we . I be more than happy to give way . labour can not negotiate . we be negotiate a modernisation deal that would have have limit job loss , just as we have in Port Talbot . the Labour Government inherit a function commercial deal in Port Talbot , and the same would have happen with British Steel have we not have a snap election . what the Secretary of State be do now be the union - push deal . they bring that deal to I — I say no ; he say yes . this be genuinely revelatory . I say again : if Jingye ' s request be for £ 1 . 2 billion to build at less cost in one place , what be the sum of money agree by the Leader of the opposition when she be Business Secretary to build in two place ? it certainly be not in the account that the Chancellor have . I will give way . how much money be agree to Jingye to close the job in Scunthorpe ? I ask she . when you be negotiate , you do not have — [ interruption . ] Labour member be cheer and laugh because they love this ; they think that the public take on billion of pound in liability be fantastic . we have not finish the negotiation so there be no amount , but it would have succeed well than the terrible plan that the Secretary of State have now . our friend in the press will follow that up and find out exactly how much money the Leader of the Opposition secretly promise to Jingye to transfer those job out of Scunthorpe . I think it might be wise , on all count , for that statement to be withdraw . the situation we inherit across the board on assume office be one where most of our foundation industry be in some substantial difficulty . since 2010 , UK crude steel production have almost halve , and we know that rebuild our steel industry after year of neglect will be a challenge , but it be one that this Government have grasp . my right hon . friend and I be in this House in 2015 when the conservative party sit on its hand and kiss goodbye to the Redcar blast furnace and , with it , the state - of - the - art coke oven that could have resolve this situation today . before he sit down , will he say something about the Jingye activity at Lackenby and Skinningrove and how they will be impact by today ' s announcement ? I be really grateful that my hon . friend have be able to put that point on the record for his community , to avoid the kind of situation we have see in lot of industrial community , to be frank , over the year . this be why we take this action today in the national interest : to provide that bridge and that possibility to the future . specifically in relation to the downstream mill , even if we be willing to accept a situation in which they be supply from a foreign country , as in this case , the confidence of consumer and business would surely be put at risk and it would bring into question the entirety of British Steel ' s workforce and business and a huge part of our strategic asset . that , again , be why this decisive action today be necessary . the right hon . Gentleman say that steel production be strategically important , and I agree . he say that we should be avoid have to be reliant on import , and I agree . however , his government block production of the raw material metallurgical coalmine in the north - west . will he now go back to his colleague in Government and the company to encourage they to reapply so we can have security not just of steelmaking , but of the raw material that be need to make it ? the hon . Lady will know that the company bring into question whether that coal be the right grade for blast furnace supply . I remember several debate in this place about that . I should also make it clear — I think hon . member understand this — that we be talk about two blast furnace that date from the 1930 and 1950 . we must also be look to the future , to new technology and new investment . crucially , have the dedicated resource that this Government have put into steel be why we have the chance to look to the future with optimism . the UK steel industry be an outlier , in the sense that it be a much small proportion of our overall economy than in any major comparable economy , so of course there be potential , and we should look to the future . I would be more than willing to work with the hon . Lady as a local MP to do so . rise — I will give way one last time . I thank the Secretary of State for give way . once he have the power in this Bill , I urge he to use they decisively and swiftly , but then , as he have say , we need to look to the future . once we have secure Scunthorpe ' s future , we need to discuss what happen next , which be clean energy , and invest in the global clean energy that the UK really could succeed in . do he agree that the people of Scunthorpe have uphold their end of the bargain for decade , and now it be time that we in this House make sure we uphold our end too ? the hon . member put it extremely well , if I may say so . the people who have uphold steel as the backbone of construction in the UK for decade deserve well treatment than they would have have if Parliament have not be recall today to take this action , and we should all bear that in mind . whether it be at Port Talbot , via our upcoming steel strategy , via our work to improve public procurement , or in the introduction of our industrial strategy to tackle the most thorny issue of industrial competitiveness , where other have shy away , this Government have step up . let I conclude by say that steel be fundamental to Britain ' s industrial strength , our security and our identity as a primary global power . today ' s legislation will help ensure that we can retain that steelmaking capability here in the UK both now and for year to come . for british worker ’ security , for british industry ' future and — without hesitation — in our national interest , and for the worker of British Steel and their family , this action be essential , and I commend this Bill to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for take the time to brief I last night ahead of today ' s sit , and for advance sight of his speech . to fail to prepare be to prepare to fail . what a way to proceed : recall Parliament for only the sixth occasion since the end of the second world war to debate a Bill publish only 90 minute ago . this would be conduct unbecoming of a parish council . our country , our economy and this Parliament all deserve well . that be why the amendment in my name would at least put a sunset on the Bill , and I hope the Government will accept it . today be not a failure by the steelworker of Scunthorpe and elsewhere , their family or the community . they have toil for generation to ensure that we have the primary steel we need for our structure , our safety and our security . this be a failure on the Government ' s watch . let we be crystal clear what today mean : we be enter a tunnel with only one exit . this be a botched nationalisation plan , reveal that the Government have no plan . in government , we act to secure Port Talbot and we be negotiate a plan , include British Steel ' s preferred option of an electric arc furnace on Teesside , which would have limit job loss and keep Scunthorpe run in transition . once again , when Labour negotiate , Britain lose — the Chagos island , US tariff , the train driver and now this late crisis . a bad toolmaker blame his tool , but this time the Government have only themselves to blame . do the hon . Gentleman not accept that , in the year between 2010 and 2023 , steel production in this country fall by 50 % — 40 % to 50 % — and do that not underline the lack of strategy under the previous Government ? I will talk about the difficulty face steel around the world , but let we just be clear what be happen today : the british people must not have lose their winter fuel allowance and their disability benefit in order that China can walk away from its liability , leave british taxpayer to pick up the bill . steel need energy , and energy need steel . no one deny that steelmaking have be difficult for some time , but Scunthorpe be the victim of a dishonesty that pretend it be well for the environment to ship coke halfway around the planet than from down the road , and of an energy policy that have drive cost high than in any compete nation . no one be more responsible for this than the Energy Secretary and the Prime Minister who appoint he . will my hon . friend give way ? [ interruption . ] order . I remind member that those who keep intervene will go down the list , so that everybody get a fair chance . I assume that apply after the warning , Mr Speaker . we have a Government who , I believe , be ship coke coal just off the Lincolnshire coast today from Japan , when it be perfectly possible to have the world ' s green production of coke coal in Cumbria , with thousand of job . be it not a disgrace that this Government turn their back on job in Cumbria and , indeed , in the North sea because they put ideology ahead of practicality and even ahead of the environment ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . it be sad to say that Scunthorpe be the victim of exactly that policy : put ideology before british interest . rise — I will make some progress . million of other business be also struggle with their energy bill , which be why the Chancellor ' s tax choice have be so devastating . steel may be the first domino to topple , but glass , chemical , car and concrete be other industry at risk . do the Prime Minister envisage a whole series of Saturday sitting , or will he change course today and cut energy cost now , and not in 10 year ' time when it be too late ? we be hear about the previous Government ' s effort to save British Steel , and we have hear a somewhat confusing account of the deal that the now Leader of the opposition negotiate . if such a deal exist , can we see a record of it ? my right hon . friend the Leader of the Opposition have make it extremely clear that the deal be be negotiate , and the point about it be negotiate be that it would have be conclude after the election . rise — I will make some progress . it do not need to be this way . my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Immingham ( Martin Vickers ) have be warn of a grow threat since last September . the Mayor of Tees Valley have be ask the Government to present their plan for steel for month . Rob Waltham , the leader of North Lincolnshire council , have do all he can to support steelmaking in Scunthorpe . and , on 4 April , Ed Conway of Sky News show the world that we be just day away from the risk of the furnace shut down . but the Government do not listen and they do not act . it have be almost 10 day since Parliament last debate substantive government business . rather than this rush , one minute to midnight Bill , we could have use that time for proper debate , proper process and proper scrutiny . this be indefensible incompetence . despite year to prepare , it be clear that the Government come into office with no plan . there be no steel strategy , there be no industrial strategy , there be no export strategy , and now we have this botched nationalisation . the Secretary of State say that his preference be to find a commercial partner , but let we be serious . do the Government think that be likely , after attack business with a £ 25 billion job tax and his Bill to create the most hostile environment for employer since the 1970 ? on the Chancellor ' s watch , in case she have not notice , all the flow be of investor leave this country . I be still a little confused about the deal negotiate by the last government . as the Leader of the Opposition do not answer , could the hon . Gentleman please clarify the situation for the House ? I be not surprised that the hon . Lady be a little confused ; as I say , the Government have fail to lay out their plan and to afford this House the opportunity to debate it . everything that we have hear this morning say that the Government have not really think this through . steelmaking be complex , intense and highly operational . iron ore have to reach thousand of degree to become molten iron . it be a dangerous process that pose a serious risk to health . in Birmingham , Labour struggle to collect the bin — rise — sit down . from midnight , the Chancellor will be stand behind the payroll , settle every bill with every supplier , even if they be in arrear . if these decision no long sit with the plant owner , where do the buck stop ? Old Admiralty Building ? the Treasury ? no . 10 ? how can other steel provider have any confidence in the impartiality of the Government ' s steel strategy if the umpire be now on the pitch ? what assessment have the Government make of the impact of the Bill on public finance ? there be no impact assessment . the Government have be talk to British Steel for nine month . they have put at least £ 500 million of taxpayer ' money on the table . surely by now , the Business Secretary and his official have a comprehensive understanding of the cost of the action that he be ask we to vote for . what disrespect it show to this House for the Government to come along today , have recall Parliament , after nine month of fail to land a deal , and ask we for a blank cheque . that be no way to run a corner shop , let alone the country . have anyone in Government ask the Office for National Statistics — rise — if they sit down , they might learn something . you will sit down , actually . it be the hon . Gentleman ' s choice whether he give way , so member should stop hang around . I will take an intervention if someone want to answer this question : have anyone in Government ask the ONS whether , as a result of the power that be be take in this Bill , from today British Steel will be classify as publicly own , whether it have be formally nationalise or not ? no answer . rise — that be a bit slow . [ interruption . ] go on then . that be a relevant question , give that the hon . Gentleman be Boris Johnson ' s business adviser when the Jingye deal be be negotiate . what advice do he give Boris Johnson about whether to accept that deal ? disappointingly , there be no answer to my important question about the ONS and whether this asset will sit on the Government ' s balance sheet . perhaps when the Minister wind up , he will provide an answer to that important question that affect the nation ' s finance . the market know , the world know and we know that the Chancellor ' s headroom be inadequate from the very moment that she sit down after her last emergency Budget . only this week , the Bank of England take the unprecedented step of cancel the plan sale of Government bond . today ' s botched nationalisation will far unsettle international market . when will the Chancellor be present she next emergency Budget , and what be her plan to update the market ? there we be : a disrespect of this House ; the Government treat Parliament with disdain ; nine month of dither and delay ; and a botched nationalisation of steelmaking , with the british taxpayer on the hook . it be crystal clear that when labour negotiate , Britain lose . this be not a serious government . it be a government shape by event , not in control of they . it be government by sulky teenager — not share their plan , not answer the question , and when it go wrong , it be everyone ' s fault but theirs . I call the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee . Mr Speaker , I wonder whether you will forgive I for return the debate to the Bill , which be about save British Steel . that be what the debate should be focus on , and I commend the Secretary of State for bring forward the power to achieve that goal . he have act with decisiveness , speed and certainty , and I thank he for the Bill he have present today . he have act in the national interest , and he have act to safeguard our economic security . I be delighted that he have also act in line with the Select Committee ' s advice , which be table with he 10 day ago — as we know , that do not always happen . we urge he to maximise pressure on British Steel ' s owner , not to do what be easy , but to do what be right . today he have return to the House with a Bill ask for the power to do exactly that . this legislation matter not simply because it protect 3 , 700 job in Scunthorpe , not simply because it protect 37 , 000 job in the steel supply chain across our nation and not simply because it safeguard nearly £ 2 billion of economic output ; it matter because it defend our economy , our security and , therefore , our future . at the heart of this debate be a very simple question : can we entrust a critical national asset to a company we do not trust ? I say no , we can not , we must not and we dare not . we be present with a very simple challenge in British Steel ' s owner : we have a company in possession of an asset that we need , yet it be a partner that we do not trust . in a world where threat to our economic security multiply each day , we can not allow that risk to fester at the heart of our industrial core . do the right hon . Member agree that there be a wide issue at stake : our energy security and national security ? we have see what can go wrong with a chinese company that we do not trust , and we see chinese influence increase in other vital sector , particularly our energy industry . should that not underline our concern and act as a warning that we do not want the Chinese to have control of our energy supply ? we be here in the House to answer a very basic question : if we can not trust a company , can we entrust to it a capability that we need , when that capability be so vital to our strength ? that be one reason why the Select Committee have set up a new Sub - Committee on Economic Security , Arms and Export Controls . we will be report back to the House on the state of economic security in our country before the summer recess , and I look forward to the hon . Lady ' s comment on that report . the general point I want to land be this : what we value most can not be entrust to those we distrust most . the timing of the Bill be critical ; we live in an age of intensify insecurity . President Putin ' s violence be unabated , China ' s military build - up be unabated and now President Trump threaten to upend the free trading system . in such a world , to surrender our ability to make primary steel would not be a misfortune — it would be negligence . my right hon . friend will know that the Select Committee have speak to defence company about how necessary it be not to rely on import at a time such as this . do he agree that national resilience and defence rely on industrial security ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . in this debate , we need to remember that 95 % of our rail infrastructure be make by British Steel . British Steel also supply three quarter of every major construction project in this country . thank to the Chancellor , we be about to invest £ 10 billion in the rearmament of this country ; much of what we need to put in place will be make by British Steel . how can we afford to let British Steel go out of business today ? how can we vote against the Bill ? British Steel be not simply a pillar of british industry : it be a cornerstone of our economic security . do the right hon . Gentleman agree with I , as a card - carry advocate of industrial strategy , that this argument apply to some of our other key high - growth sector , such as fusion , quantum and space ? we have to accept that the day of easy globalisation be over and be a bit more strategic about how we support our emerge industry . Mr Speaker , you know that I could answer that question all day , but you would rule I out of order , so I will confine my remark to the Bill . however , I agree with the hon . gentleman . he be absolutely right , and that be why we have to work hard across the House to build a consensus about the big call that we need to get right for our future . British Steel face significant headwind , not just from chinese steelmaker flood the market , but from the new 25 % tariff from the United States , and we have to rise to the challenge of decarbonisation , yet we in this House must keep our eye on the prize ahead of we . the Chancellor have just commit £ 100 billion - worth of capital investment , we be build affordable home at a pace not see in decade and we be invest £ 10 billion in defence . there be a market to seize , but only if we have the mean to supply it . British Steel can not profit from Britain ' s future if chinese firm be allow to kill it today . I agree with the right hon . member that we need a steel industry in Britain and that we need to invest in it . do he not think that we could be go a bit far today and , instead of this temporary measure , take the whole steel industry into public ownership so it can be what it have always be — the bedrock of manufacturing industry in Britain — and give we security for the future , free from market force ? the right hon . Gentleman may well be right , but this be the second key point that I want to land : the truth be that Jingye be a mess . it have fail to publish account since 2021 . two auditor have resign ; one cite material concern about the company ' s ability to remain a go concern . inventory can not be verify . cash - flow statement be miss . the company be not act in good faith , and that be why the Secretary of State be right to take the power that he be ask for today . it be clear that the escalate trade war between China and the United States create the imperative to act today . it be clear that Jingye be about to move primary steelmaking capability from Scunthorpe back to China and merely use the downstream mill in Scunthorpe . that may have be good for China ' s economic security , but it be not good for Britain ' s national security , and that be why we need to give the Secretary of State the power that he be ask for . the option on the table be very simple . the Secretary of State could do nothing and watch the furnace close ; he could hope , but hope be not a strategy ; or he could act , as he have do today . he have act with strength and make a decision in the long - term interest of our country , and the House should give he its full and unabated support . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . recall Parliament today be absolutely the right thing to do , but to be frank , it be extraordinary that we find ourselves in a situation in which our sovereign steel industry be in such peril as a result of the Conservatives ’ failing and the Labour Government be now try to give themselves unprecedented power . it be astounding that , even after British Steel be sell for £ 1 , even after it enter insolvency and even after the Government ' s Insolvency Service temporarily run it , the Conservatives press ahead to erect more trade barrier through their botched Brexit deal , scrap the Industrial Strategy Council and allow the sale of the steel plant to a chinese firm that , accord to Ministers , be now refuse to negotiate in good faith at least to keep the plant go . the Conservatives be asleep at the wheel . they fail to tackle energy cost and business rate , and now Trump ' s tariff and contagious protectionism be the straw that have break the camel ' s back . do the hon . Lady agree that the Conservatives be also in government in 2015 , when the steelwork at Redcar close and thousand of people lose their job ? as the hon . member know , the three thing that I have just outline — British Steel be sell for a pound , British Steel enter insolvency and the Government ' s Insolvency Service be leave temporarily run the firm — all happen in 2019 . with Putin ' s barbaric war in Europe and Donald Trump ' s disastrous tariff cause economic turmoil around the world , we must secure the future of steel production here at home . we Liberal Democrats welcome the sense of seriousness and urgency show by the Government in recall Parliament . we must work together to rescue our steel sector and the ten of thousand of job that directly and indirectly rely on it . but under the term of the Bill , the Secretary of State be give himself huge and unconstrained power that could set a very dangerous precedent . I urge he to make a commitment , in the strong possible term , to repeal the power that he be give himself as soon as possible — within six month at the late — and to come back to this House for another vote to extend those power if they be still require after that . as I try to articulate in my opening speech on Second Reading , I understand the gravity of the situation , which give put some context to the demand for further power to be include in the Bill . the limitation , as wide as it be , be the right measure , and I can give the hon . member my absolute assurance that I shall seek to do exactly as she say . I be incredibly grateful to the Secretary of State for give that assurance , which be important in the context of what the power in the Bill actually be . clause 3 ( 4 ) ( a ) give the Secretary of State the power to break into anywhere to seize asset . clause 3 ( 4 ) ( c ) give the Secretary of State the power to take whatever step he consider appropriate — not what a court or a reasonable person might consider to be appropriate — to seize or secure asset . clause 4 ( 3 ) , on offence , make it a crime for anyone not to follow the instruction of the Secretary of State , or to refuse to assist the Secretary of State in take those step without a " reasonable excuse " . however , a " reasonable excuse " be not define in the Bill , no example be give , and , quite frankly , it be hard to work out what defence of a " reasonable excuse " might be accept give that , under clause 3 ( 4 ) ( c ) , it be whatever the Secretary of State himself consider to be okay . clause 6 ( 1 ) , on indemnity appear to give the Secretary of State and potentially any other person who be with he — a police officer , a civil servant , or a Border Force official — immunity from prosecution for use any of these wide - range power . these power be unprecedented and they be unconstrained . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for say that that be precisely why he intend to repeal they as soon as possible . more broadly , the Government must now also bring forward plan to guarantee the future of this vital sector . we know the steel industry be surround by crippling uncertainty . after decade of underinvestment and shocking indifference to our sovereign economic security , the previous Conservative Government have leave our sovereign national capacity on steel diminish and endanger . yet there be no chance that UK demand for steel will disappear . how absurd and irresponsible be it that we have a sustainable and endure long - term market for british steel , but that our supply could keel over in a matter of day because of the failure of the fail conservative party ? so look ahead , let we remember that save Scunthorpe be necessary , but not sufficient on its own . there have be significant discussion about the future ownership structure of this company . give the precarious fiscal position in which the Government find themselves , it be important that all option on ownership be put on the table , so that this House can take an informed decision about what they mean for the public finance . I hope the Government will make a commitment that , in the come week , they will bring forward a report that set out option for future ownership of the plant . look ahead , many big question remain unanswered . will the Government immediately designate UK - make steel a nationally strategic asset ? will they be use direct reduce iron , and , if so , will that form part of the UK ' s plan alongside protect the production of virgin steel at Scunthorpe ? when will the Government bring forward a comprehensive plan to ensure that more british steel be use in vital infrastructure project , from defence to renewable energy ? will Ministers work shoulder to shoulder with our european and Commonwealth partner to tear down trade barrier , include by negotiate a custom union by 2030 ? will they develop initiative to retrain and upskill worker across the country as we transition to green method of steel production ? how do the Government intend to respond to call from UK Steel for the Government to achieve the low electricity price in Europe , parity with competitor on network charge , and wholesale electricity market reform ? this case should also raise concern about the role of chinese corporate interest in the UK ' s national critical infrastructure . the decision by British Steel ' s chinese owner to turn down the Government ' s offer of £ 500 million to support the future of the Scunthorpe plant have directly precipitate this crisis . we must now be clear - eyed about the risk pose by chinese involvement in our country ' s vital infrastructure . to that end , will the Minister tell the House when the Government ' s promise UK - China audit will be release , and how the Government plan to strengthen protection for critical infrastructure ? can he assure the House that the Government have assess whether there be any risk that Jingye , on behalf of the Chinese Government , have deliberately run down the plant to jeopardise the UK ' s capacity to produce steel ? we be in a precarious position , and it be not as if there be no warning . in 2022 , the Royal United Services Institute think - tank say : " domestically produce steel be use in defence application , and offshore the supply chain may have security implication — for example , in a scenario where multiple ally country rearm simultaneously at a time of global supply disruption , such as during a major geopolitical confrontation . " the fact that Jingye have now close down the supply of raw material be further evidence that the plant should not have be sell to it in the first place . quite frankly , the fact that some conservative mp be call for nationalisation show how far through the look glass we really be . be not the Conservatives ' attitude abundantly clear ? on national security , they cut troop number by 10 , 000 ; on food security , they undermine our farmer with unforgiveably bad trade deal ; and on economic security , they leave our country with almost no sovereign steel capacity . on security , the Conservatives leave our island nation severely vulnerable , like flotsam in the sea , passively bob up and down or be bash around by the tide of international event . as for hon . member from the private limited company Reform Ltd , they have a bit of cheek to claim to support UK steelworker while cheer on their pal President Trump , whose punish trade war be put those steelworker ' job at risk . perhaps the company ' s director who sit in this House will come clean about whose side they be really on . time and again , we have see the failure of an ad hoc , piecemeal approach to industry across all sector , from the failure of our water company to the shocking state of our housing nationally and the dismal situation of our health service . for too long , there have be no stability for these industry , which be constantly fix on a short - term basis only , to the point where they be practically hold together by string and tape and the dedicated worker who remain . we Liberal Democrats stand ready to help constructively to bring about an outcome that deliver real change . today , some of we have be surprised to hear the opposition talk about a failure to prepare . the worker of Scunthorpe might say that they have 14 year to prepare , and fail . British Steel ' s product be essential to industry , to this country ' s security , and to the delivery of major infrastructure programme across the country , include in London . british Steel supply Transport for London with the power rail use on its transport network , which be not manufacture anywhere else in the country . for railway , include the underground , power rail from British Steel be essential to the everyday operation of the service , which support up to 4 million customer journey each day . the closure of British Steel would have a very serious adverse effect on Transport for London ' s service , as it would on project up and down the country — so , above all , Transport for London believe in the importance of a UK - base supply chain for steel . finally , everyone in this House understand that the Bill be not about bring steel into public ownership — whatever the opposition assert — but some of we hope that move on to nationalisation will not be rule out . all of we on the Government Benches believe in what work , but privatisation certainly do not always work . the water industry come to mind . since privatisation , not a single reservoir have be build . instead , billion have be pour into the pocket of shareholder . now raw sewage float in our waterway and river , and it be the consumer who will have to pay exorbitant charge for investment that should have be make all along . this House support the Government in move to save British Steel and the job of thousand and thousand of worker . it also support the Government in move so quickly and with such certainty to protect the country ' s interest , include in relation to security , and in work to save the community in Scunthorpe , because one of the issue with deindustrialisation be the long - term effect on many community up and down the country . we all support what the Government be do . I have just come off the phone to Tom Smith , the trade union convenor at the blast furnace , on behalf of my many constituent who work next door in Scunthorpe . my primary concern today be with the nearly 3 , 000 people who work in this plant . let we be clear : we have be make the good quality steel in the world for 135 year in Lincolnshire , and we intend to go on do it . we be not go to allow cheap , inferior chinese steel to kill off our industry . the worker of Scunthorpe be breathe a sigh of relief . we can be party political . I have to say that I think the Chairman of the Business and Trade Committee make an excellent speech — he be positive and talk in strategic term — but I do not know what the Liberal Democrat spokesman , the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) , achieve by constantly attack the conservative party on what be a very complex issue . of course we can be criticise because we sell this company to Jingye — yes , I agree — but how many voice on the liberal Democrat Benches be speak up at the time ? be they speak up when Greg Clark , our then Business Secretary , pay the wage of the Scunthorpe steelworker for many month ? be they speak up when we save Sheffield Forgemasters ? this be a highly complex issue and we should be work together , so I support the Bill . I know that we can be critical of the Government . perhaps we should have act soon — my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Immingham ( Martin Vickers ) have be raise this point ; I be sit beside he at the end of March when he raise it and call for nationalisation of the industry — but we have now get to work together to save our steelmaking capacity . we know , though , that this Bill be a bit of a stick plaster . it be quite dangerous . quite extensive power be be take by the Government , so there have to be a sunset clause . we be give unprecedented power to the Government . we can criticise they for not act soon , but this be a stick plaster on a gape wound . let we be honest : steelmaking in this country be under extreme stress . and why be that ? why be we load the most expensive energy cost on to our own steel production ? why be Scunthorpe pay almost twice as much in energy cost as those in South Korea or in America ? high energy price make UK steel expensive to produce and uncompetitive versus that produce by our european counterpart . in 2024 - 25 , the average price pay by UK steelmaker be £ 60 a kwh , compare with the german price of £ 50 and the french price of £ 43 . we be make our own steel industry uncompetitive . we have to stop these green energy cost . we have to be realistic . the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero have now leave , but we need to get real . we can take steel into public ownership now , but if we go on load cost on our industry , we will have to come back month after month and year after year . we will support the Bill , although we want a sunset clause . but we have to get real about China , too . be it not obvious for week and , indeed , for month ? this be a so - call private company , but there be no such thing as a private company in China . they be all under the cosh of the Government , under an autocratic regime . what do they care about the steelworker in Scunthorpe ? what do they care about our national interest ? never again , colleague , must we allow such a strategic industry to fall into the hand of the Chinese , the Russians or anybody else . will the right hon . Gentleman clarify whether he be aware that the chinese company that be now in possession of British Steel be sell it by a Conservative Government of which he be part ? of course I be , because I just say that . I have just admit that it be a mistake , but I ask everybody what they be say at the time . of course , there be silence . it be easy to be wise after the event , but I be worried about my steelworker — I be worried about their future . rise — I give way to our former leader . I want to make sure that my right hon . friend put the record straight : some of we on the Opposition Benches warn the then Government that it be wrong . there we be : some of we apparently warn the Government . I do not know how many . we now know the true nature of our chinese friend . we support the Bill . let we make our steel industry really competitive again and let we make Great Britain great again . rise — order . can I make an appeal to everybody ? a lot of people want to speak and there be go to be some disappointment . I think those whose constituent be actually go to be affect should be allow to speak , but let we see how we go for time . we need to be brief to get more member in . let we have a good example from Melanie Onn . I be delighted to follow the right hon . member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) . give his Damascene conversion to socialism today , he could be term the new " Red Ed " . I welcome the Government ' s decisive action to bring security for worker at Scunthorpe . they be grasp the nettle after the can have be kick down the road for far too long . British Steel at Scunthorpe be not just of interest to that town ; its importance emanate across northern Lincolnshire to my constituent in Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes . whether directly or indirectly , the employment and training opportunity that come from that single site be so important to our local economy , and the product be , of course , nationally important . when I consider the business that operate across the Humber and northern Lincolnshire , I think the industry that be relevant to secure the future of steel seem strong . from the Siemens factory in Goole to the boatyard of Hull and the turbine off the Cleethorpes coast , the product that Scunthorpe could have a role in produce be plain for we all to see . the Government must turn their attention to the next step , because the measure we be take today be not without risk . unless we set a course for steel in the UK that closely align with our industrial strategy , this will be only another stick plaster for a site that have already be put through the wringer too many time over the year . the power that the Government seek today will protect the worker at British Steel from any retaliatory measure that Jingye may have seek to take . that be welcome by those worker , who have often feel at the mercy of the company ' s owner and unseen by the Government . do my hon . friend agree that one major way in which we could secure market for british steel be through the " british first " strategy that the Ministry of Defence have set out for the building of future warship ? order . Mr Roca , have somebody texte a photograph outside this place of what be go on here this morning ? indicate dissent . okay , can people please not take or text photograph ? I do not know if that be the case here , but your name have just be associate with it . I agree with my hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Luke Akehurst ) ; it be imperative that we tie up all the initiative that this government be bring forward , whether in defence or other critical area of industry , to make sure we can secure the long - term future of steel . to ensure the good chance of successfully secure a private partner or long - term commercial solution , the Government must take all action available within their power and do all they can to make british Steel viable . I wonder whether now be perhaps the time for the Government to look again at the carbon border adjustment mechanism . the EU have already bring in the adjustment mechanism to protect against international steel dumping . by do all we can — whether by keep down energy cost , as I know the Minister have seek to do , invest through the national wealth fund or , indeed , bring in the cbam — this be our chance to secure a genuine , long - term solution for the preservation of British Steel . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) , my Member of Parliament ; on this matter we be in complete harmony . before I talk about the local situation , which be what I want to focus on , may I thank the Secretary of State for give I a call yesterday evening and outline the proposal he would be bring forward this morning ? I do say to he that I would not be entirely uncritical , so I be sure he will not mind a few jab here and there . the local situation be extremely critical , as have be point out . the impact , not only on the workforce but on the wide economy of northern Lincolnshire , would be extensive . I have be a resident in the Grimsby - Cleethorpes area all my life , and I have see the impact when a town lose its core industry . in the case of Grimsby , of course , that be the deep - sea fishing industry . when that decline happen — it have happen to so many town up and down the country as a result of the decline in mining , shipbuilding and other heavy industry — it take a generation or perhaps more for the town to fully recover . that be the last thing I want to see happen in my neighbouring constituency of Scunthorpe , or to the hundred of my constituent who work there . those member who be here for the Easter Adjournment debate — there be a handful — might have hear I say this only four day ago , but the site extend way beyond the bound of Scunthorpe , into my Brigg and Immingham constituency . the site be the equivalent of 1 , 133 Wembley football pitch , which give an idea of its size and of the amount of work that would be need be the steelwork to close . there would be demand for vast Government investment over decade , in order to remediate the site and to provide new employment . I say that I would not be entirely uncritical of the Secretary of State , so I refer he to my first urgent question on this matter , on 5 September last year . I say on that occasion : " there have be widespread medium report suggest that coke will stop be import from October , which would mean production would stop in Scunthorpe by Christmas . there be rumour concern the fact that employee will be give notice very soon . that be obviously create great anxiety among those directly employ by British Steel and those in the supply chain , which in northern Lincolnshire extend to many thousand of people and many business . " — [ Official Report , 5 September 2024 ; Vol . 753 , c . 424 . ] thankfully , we have have a six - month reprieve from those threat in October , but I have to say , the Government have be a little dilatory on this . I appreciate that negotiation have be take place and Ministers can not give away their negotiating position , but I make this point as long ago as September , as well as when you grant I an urgent question on 27 March , Mr Speaker — only a couple of week ago — and surely the Government be begin to realise at that point that the negotiation with Jingye be go nowhere . I be extremely grateful to the hon . gentleman for put that point on the record . it be precisely because of those concern that we be able to have ready a legal route to intervene to directly offer support to purchase raw material . what we could not have anticipate or expect be for a company to act in an irrational economic manner when such a clear , distinctive and generous offer be make . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his intervention . I would say merely that he have be party to the negotiation , and he must surely have realise that the company be not negotiate in good faith and expect his official to prepare legislation , if require , to deal with the situation that we be now in . as other have say , this be crucial not just for thousand of my constituent who work at the site , but for the defence of the nation . I assume and hope that Defence Ministers have be lobby the Secretary of State to make their concern clear . locally , there be continue concern . like the Father of the House , my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , I will support the proposal . I float the nationalisation issue on 27 March , and I see this as a step - stone to that situation . to those who will perhaps demand nationalisation today , I would say that this be a very complex issue , and what matter more than anything else be the future of the workforce and the ability to produce virgin steel . nationalisation legislation would not , I sincerely hope , be pass in three hour ; it would involve a great deal of work . have get themselves into this situation , the Government be now take the right action . there have be disappointment locally — to put it mildly — that the Prime Minister do not , follow my question to he only 10 day ago , take up the option to meet a cross - party delegation of mp to discuss the situation , but now that we be where we be , I fully support the Government , and I hope that they accept the sunset clause amendment , which would be prudent . I can assure they of my full support today , which they will continue to have when they act in the good interest of my constituent . rise — order . can we try to help each other by not speak for too long ? I hope we do not have ream of paper for the next speech . Bill Esterson will be a good example of a short speech . well , thank you , Mr Speaker — no pressure . [ interruption . ] I will put some of my paper down . may I start by praise the Business Secretary and his team for the way in which they have introduce the legislation ? I add to that my praise for trade union , local management and Members of Parliament of both main party — not least my hon . friend the Member for Scunthorpe ( Sir Nicholas Dakin ) , who , be a Minister , be not speak in the debate . I join he on a 2023 visit to Scunthorpe , where the very concern about Jingye that we have hear today be share with we by local management and trade union alike . it be no surprise that those concern have come to pass . the last Government be warn , and they choose not to take the action need . minister in the last Government tell I that steel need by the Navy and by those across our economy could not be make at Scunthorpe , or at other steel plant . interestingly , the local management and the trade union tell I that they could make whatever their customer ask they to make by adjust production . again , it be a pity that the last Government do not listen , or we might be in a rather different place now . during the last Parliament , we be the only country in the G20 where production of primary steel , and steel overall , be fall . if the blast furnace be allow to close , we would be the only country in the G20 without any primary steelmaking capacity , which underline why today ' s legislation be so important . the steel at Scunthorpe be of strategic national importance . some 95 % of our rail track be make at Scunthorpe , and the steelwork there carry out automotive , construction and defence production , all of which be critically important to this country . in addition to what be make now , there be opportunity in energy transition and defence . some 25 million tonne of steel will be require over the next 25 year in the offshore wind sector alone , so there be great opportunity if we can secure the future of Scunthorpe . at the Liaison Committee last Tuesday , the Prime Minister mention that the grid connection plan for the Scunthorpe site be only due in 2034 . our electricity price be 46 % above the average for International Energy Agency state . the Government have to address the challenge of slow grid connection and uncompetitive industrial energy price if they be to enable the modernisation of industry as a whole , and steel in particular . the Business and Trade Committee , of which I be a member , have hear evidence about the importance of the steel industry , and about the need for primary steelmaking to be retain as a key pillar of UK industrial sovereignty . we have hear that blast furnace still play a critical role in strategic and high - grade steel production . do my hon . friend agree that our economic security be intrinsically link with our onshore industrial capability , and that our Government ' s focus on both construction and defence in these uncertain time mean that this Bill be very welcome news ? my hon . friend make extremely well the point that our economic security and our national security be two side of the same coin . I be pleased to hear about the work be do by the Business and Trade Committee ; in his excellent speech , the Committee ' s Chair , my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North ( Liam Byrne ) , mention the Sub - Committee that have be set up . I want to talk about Port Talbot , because the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee visit it two week ago . there will be a delay of several year between the closure last year of the blast furnace there , and the opening of the new electric arc furnace , which be a massive cause for concern in south Wales and beyond . the excellent financial support provide by this government , and Tata ' s willingness to engage , be a good example of industry and Government be partner , and an indication that the industrial strategy that the Government plan to bring forward be already be effective . the Bill give the Government the opportunity to secure steelmaking in this country . I congratulate the Secretary of State and his colleague on their decisive action . worker and the nation as a whole be grateful for the work of this Government , who be do absolutely the right thing . my hon . friend the Member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) and I have be call for British Steel to be a strategic national corporation for some six year . we say to the previous Administration that the last thing they should do be sell it to the Chinese , but they ignore our splendid advice . the industry require long - term investment . the problem , as we all know , be that it have be beset by short - termism and short - term thinking , as well as by the vast electricity cost in this country , partly cause by net stupid zero and the carbon tariff . there be now a great opportunity for the House to unify . as the Secretary of State confirm , we have the opportunity to take British Steel into public ownership — this weekend , we would urge , for the sum of £ 1 . we could do a great deal for the taxpayer . we should invest in refurbishing and reline these blast furnace , in the same way that the French be do in Dunkirk . they be spend a quarter of a billion euro in Dunkirk , and we should do the same . we should bring in excellent global expertise to help British Steel . there will be opportunity if we do those thing and have long - term procurement contract for raw material , include the opportunity to use british coal from Cumbria . that be an opportunity that the Government decline , but it would create more job and save on transport cost . there be also the opportunity for long - term procurement contract for British Steel product . those be opportunity to make British Steel a long - term , viable business for the taxpayer . we can bring in long - term patient capital . if we do those thing , we can get everything that we want . primary steelmaking be a vital strategic asset , and Scunthorpe can be its epicentre . we will support the Government ' s Bill today , but there be an opportunity to go far , to be bold and to be courageous . the Secretary of State should show his cajone and show some mettle . this weekend , he and the Government have the opportunity to remove the uncertainty for 3 , 000 family in Scunthorpe . let we go for it . let we nationalise British Steel this weekend and make british steel great again . today I represent not only my constituent in Neath and Swansea East , but those of my hon . friend the Member for Aberafan Maesteg ( Stephen Kinnock ) . after year of under - investment and neglect by the previous Government , this Government ' s commitment to steel be truly welcome . however , it be vital that the £ 2 . 5 million steel renewal fund already announce by the Government be use to support the industry across the UK , and Wales need to get its fair share . some 2 , 800 steelworker lose their job in the region , but they recognise that the circumstance in Port Talbot be different from those in Scunthorpe . in Port Talbot , half the steel production have already be shut down when the Labour Government come into power , despite Plaid Cymru ' s desperate attempt to electioneer this as an issue . it be impossible to reverse the deal that have already be strike between the previous Tory Government and Tata . although steelworker understand the urgency of the current situation and support the Government ' s action to prevent further closure and job loss , they need commitment for Wales that will attract investment and create much - need employment opportunity , like those be offer by the float offshore wind industry . it be too late to save the furnace in Port Talbot and the job be long go , but investment in the area will bring new job — and , most importantly , new hope to all our constituent . you will not need reminding , Mr Deputy Speaker , but I will remind the House of quite how unusual a day this be , for a variety of reason . the last time we meet on a Saturday be at a time of war , and the last time we put a Bill through in one day be at the beginning of the pandemic . that be how serious the disastrous circumstance in which we find ourselves be . I assume that this House will accept the Bill , so I will address my comment directly to the Secretary of State . at one level , this be a " nationalisation in all but name " Bill , because of the power it give the Government . indeed , it actually give they more power than a nationalisation Bill would . it will allow the Government to do thing that they could not do under a nationalisation Bill . frankly , I would have vote for one . I be not a fan of nationalisation , as the Secretary of State will know , but I would have vote for nationalisation . I will vote for this Bill , for a simple reason : it buy we time . People have to understand that this be a reprieve , not a rescue . I do not agree with the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) on his strategic nationalisation argument . nationalisation under these circumstance buy the Secretary of State time and leverage , and he need to be able to use his judgment on how to use that time and leverage . we have have just a hint of a view of how complex a game Jingye be play . in fact , if I be to recommend any amendment to the Bill , it would be an amendment to limit to one penny the amount of money that the Government could pay to Jingye , because then no court could challenge that amount , and Jingye would know full well that it be not in line to make money out of the british taxpayer . we have to look at this in strategic and tactical term . will the right hon . member give way on that point ? if the hon . Lady will forgive I , I will not , because lot of people want to speak . I will refer to something she say in a minute , so if she really need to intervene , I will let she come in then . we be try to manage a disaster — a disaster for Scunthorpe , which be local to I , as member of my community work at Scunthorpe . the knock - on economic effect will be feel much more widely than in one town ; this will affect thousand and thousand of people all round . this be also a disaster for our last primary steelmaker , and steelmaking have suddenly become more important . it be always an important part of national strategy , but Mr Trump have make it a vital , unavoidable piece of national strategy . we have to create a circumstance that allow the Secretary of State and the Government to manoeuvre we through that . as member have say , that mean have an energy policy that make the plant viable — not just viable when it be own by the state , but commercially viable . it mean have an energy policy under which we do not have the high energy cost of our competitor , which we do now . it also mean that we have to think very hard about carbon supply . at the moment , the technology do not exist that allow we to make primary steel without carbon supply , so we have to think about that . primary steel be a strategic supply , so we can not rely on another country for it . I want to see this Bill use in a way that give the Secretary of State the time to deliver those thing , but it must also give this House the right to see what he be do and how the strategy be turn out . nobody have get this right . if those on the Government Benches want I to , I can go back to 1997 and park blame , but I do not want to do that today . I want to make this viable . we have to get our energy , environmental and industrial policy all in line to make this work . to put this in context , last year British Steel lose about £ 408 million — that be the September number . this year it be about £ 250 million . neither of those be small amount of money . the Treasury would shut down an operation if we just leave something like that run inside the Government for very long . we need a new strategy that cut our carbon emission without export our industry to the rest of the world . I be afraid that most of our success in carbon reduction over the last decade or two — or three — have be by dint of export industry to other country , often with much bad record than we . in this case it would be China . China have 50 % of the world market already . it have massive excess in steel capacity , and its steel capacity be the most carbon inefficient there be , so we would actually be worsen the circumstance . the Business and Trade Committee have take clear evidence that we need a carbon border adjustment mechanism , so that carbon - rich steel , such as that from China , be tax much more heavily . crucially , what be need on the table be the steel safeguard from the Trade Remedies Authority to guard our market from a flood tide of chinese steel right now . I be afraid the right hon . member be right . the difficulty be that we be in a new world . the terrible thing be — the House will only ever hear I say this once — that Trump have a small point in some respect , and we have to deal with the world as it be . move on to the sunset clause , I can imagine that the instinct be not to put a sunset clause in the Bill , because we be deal with a difficult negotiator , and put in a sunset clause would be put in a backstop . when we put a backstop on ourselves , we give the other side a negotiating advantage . in his speech , the Secretary of State mention that the Civil Contingencies Act 2004 would be a route . for those who have not read that legislation , we spend a year put it in place under the Blair Government , and it have recourse to Parliament at every turn : minister be properly control , it must be transparent , and so on . I suggest to he that at some point he might organise a transition to that , so that the House have great control . the Coronavirus Act 2020 do not have that — it miss all those defence — and look what happen to the policy as a result . this be what I would like to see : recourse to Parliament over the action the Secretary of State take to manage the survival of Scunthorpe and the policy to ensure its viability and , in the post - Putin and Trump era , the security of supply . we want to see all those thing , and we can organise legislation to permit they . I ask the Secretary of State to take the House into his confidence and do this properly . in 1976 , a group of steelworker emerge from the Templeborough steelwork follow a night shift . at the time , Temple - borough be the large electric arc steelmaking plant in the world . those steelworker have just do something rather spectacular : they have break a shift record . they be surprised to find a letter from the Prime Minister , Jim Callaghan , congratulate they on their contribution to the national effort . after 48 year , it be marvellous that we finally have a Prime Minister who be prioritise the steel industry once again . I know what it be like to emerge bleary - eyed from a night shift on a steelwork . as much as we be emotionally attach to our steelwork , the past analogy be not entirely helpful here . there be too much of a narrative in this country that steel be a sunset industry , when in fact it be not only essential , but advanced . perhaps this be the time for I to direct member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , as the former chief executive of the UK ' s national steel innovation centre . a lot of that innovation be embed in our facility in Scunthorpe , from advanced high - speed rail from the rail mill to rod that be draw down to wire the thickness of a human hair , produce to pharmaceutical level of precision . the beam mill in Teesside be one of a handful of plant capable of produce large - scale beam that have be use to build building from Hong Kong through to the west coast of the USA . the Skinningrove work produce the tine for yellow good for Caterpillar , which move directly into that factory . I be sure that all member agree on how vital those plant and facility be , but they may be unaware that two third of the steel we produce today do not exist 15 year ago , such be the level of continuous innovation in the steel industry . everything that we have be make either from or with steel . our steel industry have decline so significantly over the past 14 year that just last week , when I go to the constituency adjacent to mine to visit the Hartlepool pipe mill , which make the pipe for the carbon capture and storage network in which this government have invest £ 4 billion , I see that stamp on the plate of steel be the word " Voestalpine " . an austrian steel producer that sit in the foothill of the Alps be able to produce plate steel more competitively than those in the UK , while we have a plate mill in Scotland that be practically idle — the slab for that plate mill would have be produce in the Scunthorpe steelwork . I welcome the legislation today as an opportunity for we to take back control of our steel industry and deal with the chaotic fragmentation of the industry that occur over the past 14 year . I believe that the UK can be just as competitive as steel company in Austria , Germany , France , Spain or the Netherlands , which be , in fact , the big importer of steel to the UK . will my hon . friend give way ? I be sorry ; give the shortage of time , I will not . I also believe that we can be at least as good as the steel industry in Belgium , which be now large than the steel industry in the UK . clearly , there be a lack of ambition on the part of the previous Government . they do not believe that our steel industry could be as competitive as Belgium ' s . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I be sorry , but I be not go to give way , simply because of the lack of time . it be important to correct the record on a number of early comment . the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) and other refer to the coal from the west Cumbria mine , but I must inform the House that the management of British Steel have rule that coal out on the ground of quality . the sulphur level be too high . rise — I would be quite happy to talk to the hon . Gentleman about steel desulphurisation in the Tea Room later , if he would care to join I . I also completely refute his comment about bring in global expertise — we have the expertise in the UK to run steel company effectively . again , I would be happy to introduce he to people who could do that , if he wish to know . it be important to remember that the steel market globally be not a free market , which be why government work together . the US Government use tariff and block a merger between Nippon Steel and u . s . steel . the french Government traditionally use procurement ; the german Government subside their steel industry with energy price ; the chinese Government give cash . it be really important to recognise that steel company do not compete in a free market , and that if we ask our steel company to do that , we be ask they to compete with national government overseas and let those national government set our steel and industrial policy , and , fundamentally , our defence policy . I think that be unacceptable . we need to recognise that the corporate interest of a company be not the same as the national interest of the UK . the Secretary of State have recognise that and show real leadership . I want to reserve my last remark for the steelworker in Scunthorpe . I work in Scunthorpe for a time , both at the ironwork and at the steelwork . to the steelworker in Scunthorpe , I say : I know exactly the pain that you be go through . I be sure that they will be relieve by the word of the Secretary of State . we all think fondly of the four blast furnace in Scunthorpe — the four queen : Bessie , Vicky , Mary and Annie — but ultimately , I think we all recognise that their time have come . while they will be nurse into their ultimate retirement , we look forward to regenerate the steel industry in Scunthorpe and around the UK with the most modern , most efficient and most high - productive steel plant . just as a past Labour Government do when they nationalise the steel industry for the second time in 1967 — it be so good we nationalise it twice — this time , we can hopefully work with the industry to create a world - lead steel industry for the future . it be a privilege to follow such an impressive speech from the hon . member for Stockton North ( Chris McDonald ) . I be sure his constituent will be incredibly impressed at his knowledge of this issue . I want to be kind not just to he but to the Secretary of State , once again . that be become a habit that I want to break , but certainly his sincerity today can not be doubt . if there be one person who could be afford the executive power in this Bill with an element of trust , it be probably he . there be some topic that have not be touch on in a huge amount of detail today and I will touch on they briefly now . whether it be tariff , competition or energy price , we must not forget the fundamental of why the steel industry face such a challenging position . there be one other hugely important issue that have not be discuss at any length in the Chamber today , notwithstanding the future contribution that I imagine will be make by the hon . member for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) — it will not pass the lip of any other Members — which be the situation in Grangemouth . I say " the situation in Grangemouth " with an element of despair , because we all know that there be hundred of people who be on the brink of lose their job . the similarity be astounding . we have PetroChina on the one hand and a chinese company in Scunthorpe on the other . we have a chinese company in Scunthorpe say that there be loss of around £ 700 , 000 and we have a chinese company at Grangemouth say that there be loss of around £ 500 , 000 . we have a cracker in Grangemouth that have be deem not useful anymore and we have blast furnace in Scunthorpe that be categorise in the same manner . we all need to be conscious of those comparison . I say that on the basis that while the Secretary of State be right to say that this be important for job in Scunthorpe , this be right for the community in Scunthorpe and this be right for Westminster ' s national , UK - wide interest , be it not the case that it be important to the worker in Grangemouth ? be it not the case that it be important to the community in Grangemouth ? and be it not the case that it be in Scotland ' s national interest that Grangemouth be protect ? rise — rise — I be afraid that I will not give way because we be all constrain by time , in the same way that Labour Members will not take intervention either . the Secretary of State ' s answer to I early be that £ 200 million have be put forward through the National Wealth Fund . each and every one of we know that that be not in the gift of the Prime Minister or the Secretary of State to dictate . it ultimately rely on the private sector come forward with a proposal . indeed , in evidence give to the Scottish Affairs Committee just last week by EY , which have do the Project Willow report , it be quite clear in its observation that there will be no progress until 2030 at the early . that be simply not good enough , because while the Government mobilise every effort to save British Steel , they allow Grangemouth to fall on the back burner . the hon . member for Central Ayrshire ( Alan Gemmell ) refer to industrial strategy . he seem to forget in that context that energy be a reserved matter for this United Kingdom Government — something the Secretary of State be all too familiar with , give our previous role in this here House . the final thought I will leave with Labour Members be that they should remember the fact that the Bill they be support extend solely to England and Wales . it do not apply to Wales . the right hon . member from Plaid Cymru correct I to clarify the fact that the Bill apply only to England . the important consideration be : why be this not be extend to Scotland ? why be Grangemouth not be include , why be the smelter up at Lochaber not be include and why be the Dalzell steelwork not be include ? the answer to why they be not be include be that Westminster be only interested in Westminster ; it be not interested in Scotland . [ interruption . ] I will not be shout down by Labour Members , because they need to hear the truth . Scotland ' s interest matter , and the people of Scotland be watch . let I bring we back to the Bill that we be here to debate . we have hear some of the datum , statistic and information , and about the finance and the associate commercial consideration . we have hear about the importance of British Steel to our defence industry and our national security , about the importance of energy and resilience , and about the infrastructure we need to build to give we the growth in this country that we can feed back and inject into the public service that so need it . of course , the big thing here be the 3 , 700 job , and today I represent the voice of my resident in the Isle of Axholme and those live in neighbouring town , include Scunthorpe , who be feel it today and who be listen to every single word we say . I have to say that the risk to they and the impact — the personal impact — on they be unquantifiable . that be what I want to talk about . yesterday , I speak to Richard , a fifth - generation worker at Scunthorpe who have recently finish there . he say that this be about the individual , about the family , about their colleague and friend , and about the town . this be about their identity , and he describe it in this way . he say that British Steel in Scunthorpe be the " beat heart " of the area , and over the last few year that beat heart have start to slow . as it have slow , every time it skip a beat , as it have in the last couple of week , people hold their breath . they be anxious , they be scared and they be frightened . with every skip of that beat heart , people lose hope , and we can not let people lose hope . he say to we that we need to come together and we need to pick up a community defibrillator , take it there , give it the injection of pace that it need , and make sure that we stimulate that heart for all the generation in the future . we have the opportunity with this Bill today to take control and to start to make that happen . we can turn British Steel — make primary or virgin steel , which be vital for all the thing we have talk about — into a treasure , and not just a treasure , but a national treasure , which be exactly why we need to move this on today . last year , the Government say they would introduce a new steel strategy that would create more well - pay job in the place where they be most need . follow last year ' s closure of the blast furnace at Port Talbot , many of my constituent have lose their job or see their income fall . that include the thousand of worker who be lay off at the plant itself , but also those further down the supply chain , include haulage driver and payroll clerk provide service to the 2 , 000 local business that have be impact by that closure . the closure of Port Talbot ' s blast furnace start an economic contraction in south Wales that be still under way . many highly skilled worker , particularly welder , be leave south Wales in search of opportunity elsewhere . it be rub salt in the wound for the people of Port Talbot to hear the Government now acknowledge the importance of primary steel production as a strategic national asset . where be this urgency when Welsh steel community be cry out for support ? last year , when Tata Steel announce over 2 , 800 job loss at Port Talbot — the large steelwork in the country , a key strategic asset , and the manufacture heart of south Wales — there be no recall of Parliament , no Saturday sit , no emergency legislation and no rapid mobilisation of the Government to save the day , despite every warning sign be there . the union raise the alarm and industry expert warn of the economic shock , but the warning be ignore . now , face with similar risk in England , the Government suddenly rediscover their ability to act swiftly . the simple fact be that the Government do not recall Parliament for Port Talbot , and they do not recall Parliament for Wales . if today ' s decision be in the national interest , why do the Government not offer similar protection to Port Talbot , which have more capacity and great output ? have the Government be fence in by close the blast furnace at Port Talbot too early ? how much of the steel supply chain will the Government now commit to protect ? employment at Port Talbot fall from over 18 , 000 employee at its height over the past few decade to around 4 , 000 before last year ' s closure decision , and now there be just 2 , 000 steelworker employ there . those job be sorely miss . Welsh steel be all around we , and Port Talbot once produce the steel use in everyday product such as Heinz bake bean tin . it be absolutely right that we be now acknowledge the importance of domestically produce steel . community that once power the UK ' s growth , particularly the Swansea valley , the Neath valley , Port Talbot and Maesteg , now face an economic reckoning with far too little urgency from this Government in return . this be personal for many of we from south Wales . my grandfather work at the blast furnace at the Port Talbot steelwork , and it give he the opportunity , as it do many other , to set up his own business — in his case , a waste management company . that be what be really at risk now , and that be what be really wither away in south Wales . it be not just the job on the steelwork floor , but the entire network of small business , tradespeople and supplier that rely on the steel industry ' s presence in our community . we know that for every steelworker make redundant , up to three or four local job be at risk of disappear . the message from Westminster have be clear : when crisis hit in Wales , it be tolerate ; when it hit elsewhere , it become a national emergency . we can not go on like this . steel be strategic , it be critical to our national resilience , and it matter just as much in south Wales as anywhere else . this government ' s failure to act swiftly in Wales , to consult transparently with worker and to invest in a serious and just transition have undermine confidence and leave people in Port Talbot , Llanwern , Shotton and many other across Wales feel abandon . some 2 , 800 job be lose at the blast furnace alone , and many of those worker say they have simply be leave behind . we have hear the Prime Minister say over the past few day that he want to take control of steel . why do he not say that when Welsh job be on the line ? why be Port Talbot not worth fight for in the same way ? we need a proper UK - wide industrial strategy — one that recognise the vital role of Welsh steel in our national economy and , most importantly , one that treat worker in every part of the UK with the same respect , urgency and seriousness . the steelworke community of Wales have not forget the silence that meet their cry for help , and they will not accept a future in which their community be leave behind . frankly , some of the contribution that we have just hear from the hon . member for Brecon , Radnor and Cwm Tawe ( David Chadwick ) should have be make when the decision be take place — they should not have have to wait until today . I commend the Secretary of State for how he have deal with this issue and for get we together for today ' s debate . the idea that somehow we could have debate the negotiation as we be have they be for the bird , frankly , because all we would have do be tell our negotiate partner what we be go to the negotiating table for . negotiation be not do like that , and nor should they be . and to those who have be moan about we have be recall on a Saturday , I say that you can recall I on any Saturday , at any time , and twice on a Sunday , if it mean we can save industry and thousand of job . I will be here every time . some of we know what it be like . the town of Corby be build on steel . the people of Corby and East Northamptonshire know only too well what it be like to have the steelwork close down and devastation befall local community . when the Corby steelwork close , 14 , 000 people lose their job and unemployment rise to 30 % . Corby and East Northamptonshire be once home to the large steelwork in Europe . today , it employ just shy of 500 people , and it still manufacture 250 , 000 tonne of steel tubing per year . we would not be the place that we be without the steelwork that Corby once have , and we know the devastation that the job loss would cause for the community of Scunthorpe . that be why this be the right thing to do . we must maintain steelmaking capacity in the UK . in these increasingly uncertain time , we must maintain national security by have the ability to produce our own virgin steel . all option should be open , but the blast furnace must not be switch off , because once that happen , they be go . that be the problem in other part of the country , and it should have be raise at the time . in any modern economy with a central mission for growth , production of our own steel be crucial . that will be at the heart of any future industrial strategy . I be proud to be here today to support the Bill and to secure a future for steelmaking in the UK . I will try to be brief and stay focused on the Bill . let I start by say that we should all focus on the requirement to save the job of those 3 , 500 people who have this threat hang over they . in fact , I understand from my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Immingham ( Martin Vickers ) that 2 , 500 people have already receive a redundancy notice , and they will be very worried at the moment . our thought should be with they today . come in on a Saturday be right if it save their job . I be certainly prepared to vote for that . the Bill do give vast power to the right hon . Gentleman the Business Secretary and the Government . as other have say , I trust he personally — this be not an attack on he — but we in this House should never trust Government more than we have to . I have say this on both side of the Chamber , by the way . I therefore urge he to have another look at the sunset clause , which I raise early . it be not say , " we don ' t trust you " ; it be say that sometimes government be take down sidetrack , and before we know what have happen , the power be begin to be use for the wrong purpose . I urge he to introduce the sunset clause , or even to do so in the other place , to give the House real power to come back . for everyone ' s sake — even those on the Government Benches — I think that would be worth do , because it would allow we to have a strong debate on how the power be be use and would perhaps even enable we to influence what be take place . the reason for this debate be clearly the massively change need of this country , particularly after the event that we never think would happen : Russia ' s brutal invasion of Ukraine . as a result , weapon and arm be need on an unprecedented scale , there be a plan to build up the armed force , and they need the very high - quality virgin steel that be produce in this plant . without it , we would have to import it . frankly , China do not produce that quality of steel . the other reason be the tariff war now take place , which have introduce 25 % tariff on the car industry , which be one of the big purchaser of steel . all those thing make the Bill very much necessary . we have another problem , which I hope the Government will deal with in the context of the Bill when they talk to the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero . thing have change . the Prime Minister himself have say that the world have change . we have be operate in what we consider to be a global free market . I have argue for some time that this be not a free market . far too many country such as China have abuse the rule of the free market , subsidise their industry ridiculously and use slave labour to produce their product . when that happen , the free market be dead . we must recognise that we will have to deal with those whom we trust and who do not break the rule . that mean a whole rethink of the Government ' s China policy and of whether we need to rush to China for investment . we need to ensure that we deal with our industry at home and that we produce thing again . one problem be the energy cost our industry face , which be really quite stark . our industry be not just in competition with China ; even the cost in Europe be far less now . I will give a short list . the cost in the UK be now the high in the world , at $ 400 per megawatt - hour . Germany , which have the high cost in the rest of Europe , be at $ 250 per megawatt - hour , while France and the other all have low cost for produce energy . that energy be critical for the steel industry , and that be one of the big issue that the Secretary of State have to deal with . China , with its subsidy and break free market rule , be at $ 60 per megawatt - hour . we should not attempt to compete with it ; we must say that it be not competitive at all . [ interruption . ] exactly right , as my right hon . friend the Member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) say . other be complain about China right now . country in the far east , such as Vietnam and South Korea , be accuse it of dump . what we have in China be something that will really hit we hard and make the Secretary of State ' s job even worse : very simply , China be now suffer from the over - production of steel . its housing industry have go static , and that be one of the big user of the steel it produce . where will that steel go ? by the way , it be no surprise that a chinese company , Jingye , be involve . in push to shut down the blast furnace in the UK , it know that we will have to buy slab steel from China . that be not a coincidence ; it be all part of the plan . that company be link directly to the chinese Communist party , and it be high time that we call that out . in his negotiation , the Secretary of State need to remind Jingye that the reality be that it be not a private company . the previous Conservative Government should never have award it the contract , and I warn they about that . it be time for we to make sure that we deal with China at face value and do not accept the pretence that this company be private or in any way detach from its government . that be a critical point . there be much to be deal with , and I urge the Government to listen to the House and to check all of this . cheap chinese steel be a desperate problem for we , and we need to work with other country in deal with it . we also need to get our cost down . on net zero , I hope that the Secretary of State will tell the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero that we can not go on like this . this be such an important point , and I will be exceptionally brief , but the right hon . Gentleman know from debate that he and I have be in that I be obsess with the issue of industrial energy price and by the very substantial rise from 2010 to 2024 — a 50 % real - term increase . as I think he know , the two fundamental issue be : first , our network charge and how we do those , which be different from other country ; and secondly , fundamentally , the marginal cost be set by the price of gas — the fossil fuel price — for the overall system . I be not completely reject everything that he be say , but we must understand that key point : it be the gas price . I be grateful for that , because it allow I to say something that I have not be plan to say : we sit on an island of gas , so why , for goodness ' sake , be we not drill for it ? we need it , and we will need it strategically . there be a need for strategic industry , and I agree with the Secretary of State on that . however , the issue do not stop there ; it stop elsewhere , in the production of energy . I simply leave that point for he , and he can argue it with his right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero . I want to say one final thing . in the course of this chinese company ' s operation , I have talk to a number of people involve in the business , and its record on health and safety and on the abuse of the worker in the blast furnace area have be shocking . we should look into that much more carefully . the company have bring in cheap chinese worker and pay they nothing like what it pay the british worker . many of those worker have end up burn and in great difficulty . I simply say that this be not a company we should be do business with right now . we will go to the Front Benchers at 1 . 40 pm , so if member who be call could be as brief as possible , that would be appreciate . I thank the Secretary of State for his speech and his decisive action . this will be a meaningful day for the people of Scunthorpe . I know how important job in the steel industry be . Davy Roll , otherwise know as Union Electric Steel , have stand at the heart of Gateshead , in our town centre , for over 150 year . it be the only cast steel roll maker leave in the country and it be at risk of closure . steel be incredibly important for our future , and the Government be take decisive action . I be remind today of a place close to my constituency . ten year ago , the people of Redcar be let down . I pay tribute to member , include my hon . friend the Member for Redcar ( Anna Turley ) , for their campaigning . at the time , Redcar have the second most efficient blast furnace in Europe , and yet it be abandon , along with 2 , 300 job . a proud town be let down . today , Scunthorpe and Redcar have learn the difference a Labour Government make and the difference decisiveness make : they save job and change life . thank you for that . if member can keep contribution to around three minute , that will be helpful . I call Liz Saville Roberts . Diolch yn fawr iawn , Dirprwy Lefarydd . today ' s legislation to safeguard the UK ' s last bastion of primary steelmaking capacity be of course to be support , but what my party can not support be this Government ' s approach to steel in the UK , which deem that steel in Scunthorpe be worth saving but steel in Wales be not . today be a bitter day for the people of Port Talbot , where the blast furnace have be extinguish because Labour let that happen . job loss there will take an estimate £ 200 million from the local economy in lose wage . People in south Wales have be loyally vote for Labour for decade . do this Labour Government feel proud that those vote have be pay back by tory - style deindustrialisation in Port Talbot ? Plaid Cymru have call consistently for nationalisation , but the Labour First Minister of Wales reject our call and describe nationalisation as " pipe dream " . labour in Wales be quick to mock our proposal , which we make 21 time — over and over again — in Cardiff and here in Westminster . now it be UK Labour policy . the Government must set out how much of the £ 2 . 5 billion steel fund will be allocate to secure Scunthorpe , and how that compare with the amount give to support lay - off worker in Wales . will the right hon . Lady give way on that point ? the right hon . Gentleman ' s Government do not intervene in Wales . rise — I will take no intervention . his Government do not intervene in Wales . under his government , Scunthorpe get security ; Port Talbot get a pittance . Plaid Cymru believe that Port Talbot should and could have receive equal treatment alongside Scunthorpe . that be why we have table an amendment to include Wales in the term of the Bill , and to highlight that the measure we be debate today could have be use to save the blast furnace at Tata Steel in Wales . we will not let Labour hide from the fact that it own the decision not to intervene to save Welsh steel when it have the opportunity to do so . worker and community must be at the heart of any long - term solution for the steel industry . so far , Labour in Westminster and Labour in Cardiff have work in partnership to dispatch thousand of Welsh worker to uncertainty and hopelessness . People in Wales will not forget today . it be a day of bitter disappointment for Port Talbot . today , we be take an extraordinary but necessary step not just to safeguard a single industry , but to defend the long - term interest of our country . on that point of interest , I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . let we be clear : today be about not nostalgia , but national resilience and secure Britain ' s future . retain a sovereign , primary steelmaking capability be critical to our economy and our national security , because steel be the backbone of our infrastructure , defence , energy and transport system . without the capacity to make steel from raw material here in Britain , we be at the mercy of global market and geopolitical shock , and we would be outsource not just production , but power . although we be resolute in our commitment to a green industrial future , the transition to clean steel must be a manage and just transition , not a cliff edge . that mean keep the furnace operate in Scunthorpe as we establish and scale up the electric arc furnace , because if we lose our primary steelmaking capability , we will not get it back . the skill will be lose , the supply chain break and we will become entirely dependent on other country , many of which do not share our environmental or labour standard , or , indeed , our geopolitical outlook . let we not forget the people . this be about job — good , unionised , skilled job that sustain community , generation of family and the dignity of work . the steelworker in Scunthorpe be not just make steel ; they be make Britain . we owe it to they to ensure that this industry have a future . I pay tribute in particular to the work of Community and GMB union , which have fight for the future of british steelmaking and British Steel worker . the Labour party be found to give work people a voice in Parliament , and , today , as a Government , we be honour that legacy by stand up for british industry , british worker and Britain ' s future . I be proud to support this legislation and I urge all member to do the same . steel be strategically vital for the UK and the foundation of our industry . we could and should be produce much more of it domestically . steel be also integral to the green industrial transformation that be essential for our future . wind turbine , train , rail track and electric vehicle be key element of the sustainable future for our economy . the Green party believe that public ownership be the good solution in this case , because only public ownership would give we the control that we need to ensure a proper strategic , long - term plan for the renewal of the steel industry not just in Scunthorpe but nationally . none the less , we will be support the Bill . we do , however , need to think long term . we have an opportunity to reprocess far more of our waste steel to feed our industry , instead of export it . we have an opportunity to use the skill of the community in place such as Scunthorpe to drive that green industrial transformation . moreover , the Government have an opportunity , a need and a duty to use not just this Bill but the other lever that be available to they to support this crucial strategic industry . as the Secretary of State have just acknowledge , electricity price , because they be lock to gas price , be keep too high . we need to decouple electricity from gas . as the hon . member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) mention , we should be introduce the carbon border adjustment mechanism at the same time as the EU — a year early than currently plan — to protect our steel industry . we should be make use of anti - dump mechanism to prevent the dumping of steel that be sell on the global market at below cost price . we should be use industrial and innovation policy to support the development of innovation — which be refer to by the hon . member for Stockton North ( Chris McDonald ) , who clearly know a great deal about the industry — that will be the future of the steel industry . we can not just patch up our old technology . we should be look to the future and consider what innovation we need to produce clean , green steel as the foundation for that green industrial transformation ? forty year ago in this place , the Conservative Minister of Trade and Industry say : " I believe that … privatisation will enable " — British Steel — " and its work force to … secure a firmly base competitive industry with a long - term future " . in the same debate , the then labour shadow Minister ask whether the Minister have " not reward British Steel … with a plan which quite unnecessarily place its future in jeopardy ? " — [ Official Report , 3 December 1987 ; Vol . 123 , c . 1107 . ] today , I think we can conclude that that privatisation do indeed place British Steel in jeopardy and that privatisation have leave Britain ' s steel industry dangerously expose . in the post - war period , railway , steel , mine and mill cover the country in a thicket of industry , but for ideological reason the Conservatives tear those network apart , with the result that in my North Northumberland constituency , the electricity grid be own by Warren Buffett , the water system be oversee from Hong Kong , and the bus be ultimately run out of Miami . we have the chance to correct this with british steelmaking , and that be what we be try to do today . this matter because national security be about much more than defence ; it be about trust , mutuality and our common endeavour . do my hon . friend agree that home - make steel be the fire in the belly of this country ' s industrial strategy , and that without steel be make on our shore to the high quality , we be weak ? today ' s Bill — a Labour Bill — will guarantee the future of steelmaking in our country , which be essential . my hon . friend make a good point , and I agree absolutely . I want my constituent to trust that the people pump their water , provide their power , connect they to the wide world and make their steel have their interest at heart . I want they to get job in business that serve the common good , not international stock market or foreign government . we need to have strategic industry in - house , so that we can trust that our economy be work for we . as we have hear today , Jingye appear to have at heart not the interest of the british people , but its own profit . why should we accept that a decision make in a boardroom in China with link to the chinese communist party can risk wipe out an industry that be the heart of one of our community , and vital to our nation ' s flourish ? if we be ultimately to nationalise steel , that would not necessarily be a perfect solution . a sluggish and over - subsidise steel producer would not serve Britain ' s interest any more than one own by foreign firm , but I believe we should keep nationalisation on the table . as my hon . friend the Member for Stockton North ( Chris McDonald ) say , we have the expertise and certainly the passion here in this country to succeed , and recent event have prove that the safe way to safeguard strategic part of our national infrastructure be to do it ourselves . privatisation have often be very bad for our country . that it take Government intervention to secure the continuation of our last remain plant produce virgin steel speak volume . my hope be that we soon move to the full nationalisation of British Steel and align that with our plan massive investment in skill through Skills England . after decade of fire sale of british industry , it be time for we to rebuild our industrial pride , our national security and our social covenant . to those end , I urge the House to back Britain and back British Steel . rise — Order . I remind member that each contribution should take no more than two to three minute . a potential tragedy be unfold for many people in the Scunthorpe area , not just those at the steelwork , but people in the wide community who work in the supply chain , their customer and worker in the local economy , and the family and friend of those work at the steelwork . well over 35 , 000 family in this country could be affect — nearly a whole parliamentary constituency . trump ' s steel tariff will hurt the UK steel industry . trump supporter in this House in the two shade of the blue team be strangely silent on the impact of his unnecessary tariff . have anyone hear they condemn Trump ' s tariff ? no . the Liberal Democrats believe the Government should stand strong against Trump ' s 25 % tariff . the relationship between the Jingye company and the Government have clearly break down , which be why the Secretary of State be take wide - range power for himself . as it appear that the Bill will be pass today , I have two question for he . can he confirm that the pension fund of employee and former employee be not in deficit , that all company contribution be up to date , and that the asset of the scheme have not be transfer to the hold company or any offshore business ; and if they have be , will he commence measure to get they back ? can he also confirm that ownership of the asset of the business , such as plant , land and building , have not be transfer to any hold company or offshore business ? I be glad to be call in this debate . I declare an interest : the GMB — one of the steelworker ’ union , whose parliamentary group I chair — have donate to my constituency party . twenty year ago , the MG Rover car plant in my constituency collapse , with devastating consequence that be feel to this day . today , all our thought be with the steelworker and their family at Scunthorpe and Teesside , and I hope that we can do something to avoid such a future for they . I do not want to speak for too long , but I would like to make a few point . first , today ' s decisive action be welcome . I think all our constituent would rather have a Government who act at great speed than a Government who act too late . secondly , I echo the point raise early by my hon . friend the Member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) about the importance of steelworker ' participation in the day ahead . if the Government could also clarify any change in plan for the UK Steel Council , that would be appreciate . thirdly , what role will Jingye now have in the running of British Steel on a day - to - day basis ? it be clear that worker have lose confidence in the management — as show by report this morning that management from Jingye be refuse entry to the plant — and that a change in that day - to - day management be need . I would like to respond to a couple of point make in the debate . the last time that this House carry legislation that have the effect of nationalise steel , that legislation be 108 page long . nationalisation be clearly outside the scope of the urgent emergency legislation that we be debate today . we have also hear much about cost , include energy cost . I do not wish to add to the inform comment make early , but the OECD have also say that the root cause of the industry ' s current problem be " global excess capacity " . in other word , the UK have be leave at the mercy of over - production and the dumping of artificially subsidise good . the Manufacturing Trade Remedies Alliance have long call for our trade defence to be strengthen , and I hope that those call will be listen to in a way that they be not under the last Government . I would like to end on a personal note , because I have think about one person in particular today : a family member , my aunt ' s father , who begin his career at the Ravenscraig steelwork in Motherwell . he rise to become a branch officer , national executive member and later a salaried official of the Iron and Steel Trades Confederation , the forerunner of today ' s Community union . in the peripatetic life of a trade union official , he later work in the west midland , Corby and Scunthorpe . he be fierce in the defence of his member , and the gentle and most modest of man in private . I understand that he be still remember on the executive of Community , and if he could be here today to witness this most difficult chapter in the steel industry ' s history , I be sure that he would offer valuable perspective and wise counsel . with your permission , Mr Deputy Speaker , I would like to enter his name in the record of this place : Dick Knox . I thank all member for their help in be brief for the last few contribution , but unfortunately we have time only for a final Back - Bench contribution . I call Sir Jeremy Wright . I be grateful to you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I can accept that there be broad agreement in this place that we should take action to preserve virgin steelmaking capability in the UK , but quite frankly , it be not enough for this House just to agree that we should do something . it be our responsibility to look at the detail of what the Government be propose and to decide whether it be properly target and appropriate for the task . there be not go to be a Committee stage or a Report stage in this Bill ; that be what the clock tell we . this be our only opportunity to look at the detail of the Bill , and I be afraid that precious little of that have be do today . let we have a look at what power the Secretary of State be go to be give — by the end of today , as thing will probably unfold . the Secretary of State will have power that apply to all steel manufacturer in England and Wales , not just to the particular company over which he have specific concern . there will no doubt be shiver run down the spine at Tata Steel as well , because the Bill apply to that company too . the Secretary of State can act , accord to this Bill , in order to instruct those company to deal in specific way with what be describe as " specify asset " . as I mention to he early , that do not limit the measure to blast furnace or to anything else that be specifically require to generate virgin steel . the Secretary of State can give direction to ask and require a company to do pretty much anything that company could otherwise do , and if the company refuse to do it , the Government have power to take control of asset , include power to enter premise by force if necessary , and criminal penalty that can lead to imprisonment . these be very serious power indeed , and I be afraid that this House be simply not be give the opportunity to scrutinise they as they require . they also look suspiciously , by the way , like nationalisation — so perhaps it would be easy to call this thing what it really be . let I address one or two specific before I finish . I hope that the Secretary of State , for whom I have huge respect , will think about — I think he have and will — some of the problem that this legislation will throw up . first , there be highly likely to be considerable controversy over whether a company in question be comply with a Government instruction . a company be likely to argue that point . as the Secretary of State point out , in respect of his particular concern we be deal with a company that he do not trust and that he believe have act in bad faith thus far . I have no reason to think , nor do the Secretary of State , that the company might not continue to do so . secondly , the Secretary of State be make himself responsible for claim against the company that arise from specific instruction give to it by the Government . that be what the indemnity clause mean . in those circumstance , there will be a further dispute about whether the relevant problem have arise because of what the Government have tell the company to do or because of something it have control over . as I say , the Secretary of State be enable there to be two hand on the tiller , and that will store up headache for the Government . I urge he , despite the fact that we have not have the chance to explore the matter today , to think very carefully about how the Government will protect themselves and the taxpayer from the oncoming complexity . I call Dame Harriett Baldwin for the official Opposition . I add my thank to everyone who have enable we to be here this afternoon , but the fact be that this be a bungle way to do parliamentary legislation , follow a bungle set of negotiation , and we be likely to end up with a bungle nationalisation . the Labour Government have land themselves in a steel crisis entirely of their own making . they have make poor decision and let the union dictate their action . the fact be that the union - lead Labour Government have bungle the whole negotiation , insist on a Scunthorpe - only deal that be not viable . frankly , the Government should have see this come . in fact , instead of address it 16 day ago , when British Steel announce its plan to close the site and Parliament be sit , their incompetence have lead to this last - minute emergency recall . colleague include my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Immingham ( Martin Vickers ) , the Tees Valley Mayor Ben Houchen and Councillor Rob Waltham of North Lincolnshire Council have be warn about the issue at British Steel . but no : Labour Ministers think they know well . the british public can now see the Government scramble for a solution to a problem they create and could have resolve month ago . the Government give themselves power in the Bill to compensate steel undertaking , yet the Minister have tell we nothing about the scale of that or the estimate of it . the Secretary of State tell the House that he have no trust or abide faith in the company , but he be give himself power to give whatever sum he deem appropriate to the company . do we not need more answer before we pass this legislation ? I wholeheartedly endorse what my right hon . Friend say . all new Government Members should be aware that the explanatory note to the Bill , which have only just be circulate to colleague , make it very clear — [ interruption . ] I hear cry of " Shame ! " from behind I . on the financial implication of the Bill , the explanatory note say that there have be no impact assessment of the effect on the country ' s finance , and nothing have be prepare for this House while we make this decision today . the Bill be a stick plaster for a Government who , in opposition , have year to come up with a plan , but they have dither and delay . ultimately , nothing will change for UK steel until the Government understand the damage that unrealistic and impossible " net zero by 2050 " target have do to british business and industry . we have hear a range of really excellent contribution from my hon . friend . from the Father of the House , we hear an excellent exposition of the importance of this industry to his constituent in Lincolnshire and the impact of energy cost on the industry . we hear from the great champion of the industry , my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Immingham , who have regularly bring this issue to the forefront of Members ' consideration . we hear from my right hon . friend the Member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) , and from my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , who raise incredibly important issue to do with tariff and China . we then hear from my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) , who raise some important legal question . if I may in the time available to I , I would like to raise a few far detailed question for the Minister to respond to when she get to the Dispatch Box . the Secretary of State have say that he do not want these power indefinitely , so why will Labour Members not back our amendment to implement a sunset clause for this Bill ? we have hear from a range of voice in the debate about the confusion over the territorial extent of this legislation . it make it very clear that the territorial extent apply to England and Wales only , yet clause 2 refer clearly just to England . there be another thing I would like the Minister to make clear at the Dispatch Box : if a new provider come into the UK and decide to set up a new steel - make enterprise in England or Wales , would that new enterprise be cover by this legislation ? can the Minister also tell the House what the Attorney General have advise on compliance with international law , include article 1 of protocol 1 to the european convention on human right , the World Trade Organisation subsidy agreement , and the trade and co - operation agreement , particularly with reference to state aid ? the Secretary of State be unable to tell the House this morning how much this intervention will cost . we be be ask this afternoon to sign off on a bottomless pit of money . how often will this House be give an update on how much taxpayer money be be send into this bottomless pit ? family across the country be already be hit in the pocket every day . can the Minister give the House a ballpark figure from the Dispatch Box ? be we talk about £ 100 million a year ? be we talk about a billion ? be we talk about more than a billion ? it be a fact that the Government themselves have make the situation bad for the steel industry with their determination to impose high energy price , high taxis and high business rate . where be the steel strategy that they have have nine month to develop ? what we can say with certainty about today ' s legislation be that this be no way to govern the country . whenever Labour negotiate , Britain lose . we can see for ourselves that this be a Government control by event ; they be not in control of event . yet , accord to the Secretary of State , it be everyone else ' s problem and nothing to do with they . this Government have treat Parliament with disdain . we have have nine month of dither and delay for these worker at Scunthorpe . when Labour negotiate , Britain lose . I look forward to hear the answer to all those question from the Minister . I thank hon . member on both side of the House not just for participate in this debate , but for return to this place in these exceptional circumstance . there seem to be some debate about it , but I think this be the sixth time since the second world war that we have meet on a Saturday , and only the second time that the House have be recall on a Saturday — the other be during the Falklands war . before I respond to Members ' comment , I echo the point make by my right hon . friend the Secretary of State in his opening remark : this Government will never hesitate to protect our steel industry and the thousand of steel worker in this country who build it . we always say , from the outset of our negotiation with Jingye , that we would keep every option on the table and would act in the national interest to protect job . UK - forge steel build our railway , bridge and building . it be integral to our economy ' s future , just as much as it have be to our rich industrial past . that be why we need to pass this legislation today . I will try to address as many of the point raise as I can . member make the argument for British Steel . my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North ( Liam Byrne ) point out that 95 % of Network Rail steel be from British Steel . my right hon . friend the Member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) point out that TfL would not get anywhere be it not for steel . my hon . friend the Member for Stockton North ( Chris McDonald ) , who have such expertise , point out that steel be the future and everything we have be make from or with steel . I can reassure the House that our plan for steel — the £ 2 . 5 billion that we commit to in the manifesto — will work to break down the trade barrier that we have on steel , consider the all new technology that we can introduce , and look across the whole of the UK to ensure that we protect steel everywhere . the Minister speak about the whole of the United Kingdom . I be very pleased that the Government be act , literally at pace for once , by step in to protect the worker in Scunthorpe , in precisely the opposite way to when they turn a blind eye to the plight of worker at Grangemouth , which be also critical national infrastructure labour under energy price . why be there one rule for industrial production in England and another for industrial production in Scotland ? in the first 10 week after come to power , this Government negotiate a well deal on Port Talbot and deliver a £ 200 million commitment to secure the future of Grangemouth . we act last week on the zero emission vehicle mandate to secure our automotive industry . we be act today to save the worker of Scunthorpe . the Government believe in direct action — in an active state secure the future of our industry across the UK . my hon . friend the Member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) raise trade protection issue . I want to reassure she that we will ensure that the right trade protection be in place for our steel industry . concern be raise about future decision about move towards nationalisation and whether we would come back to this place . I can reassure the House that we will come back to this place if be any further matter relate to ownership or otherwise . we will keep the House update . concern be raise about the " reasonable excuse " part of the Bill , and example be request . the " reasonable excuse " clause could include physical inability , illness or accident , and it be reasonable and measure in this case . many hon . member talk about China . we be focus on this company today ; we be not focus on the nation of China . the Bill be about what have happen with British Steel and what this government be go to about British Steel . I would not want this House to believe that the policy of this Government be anything other than a belief in free and fair trade , and that include with China . turn to the sunset clause amendment that have be table and the suggestion during the debate that those measure should be include in the Bill , I reiterate what the Secretary of State explain about the risk of a hard backstop reduce our leverage , which be why we do not include a sunset clause . however , we have hear the House ' s concern . I confirm that we will repeal the legislation as quickly as we can and that we will involve the Select Committee . I also make this pledge to the House : we will update the House regularly and the Secretary of State have commit to do so every four working week . I hope that that will give the House reassurance . rise — I welcome the Government ' s action today . I thank my hon . friend the Minister for Industry for all the hard work that she have put in to get we to this place . do she agree with I that our future industrial strategy must contain an extended section on Government procurement for steel , so that British - produce steel have a fair crack of the whip in the future ? my hon . friend be right that procurement have a key role to play in our industrial strategy in steel and beyond . we be work with colleague in the Cabinet Office to ensure that that be the case . I speak to the hon . member for Brigg and Immingham ( Martin Vickers ) about these issue regularly , as do the Secretary of State — on a point of order , Mr Speaker . it be report that Jingye management have be turn away by worker and the Humberside police today , so will the Minister tell the House whether the Government ' s policy be to bar Jingye management from go on to the premise ? as the right hon . member know , that be great information but not a point of order . I will not comment from the Dispatch Box on report that have be make during the debate . we be actively engage , minute by minute , on activity in British Steel . if anything , those report underwrite the need for the power in the Bill to be introduce on this day . I hope all hon . member will support the introduction of the legislation and vote for it today . the hon . member for Brigg and Immingham suggest that we could have move fast . I reassure the House that we do not recall the House lightly . we do it because we have a choice today : do we want to deny any possibility of the future of the steelwork at Scunthorpe and do we want to see the closure of the blast furnace , or do we want to secure a future for those worker and for primary steelmaking in this country ? on that point , will the Minister give way ? I hope my hon . friend will forgive I , but there be no time for I to give way . I reassure the hon . member for Brigg and Immingham that in no way have we move slowly — we have be move at pace throughout our time in government . there be suggestion that we should move to nationalise British Steel today and that this Bill be already nationalisation . it be not nationalisation and we be not move to nationalise British Steel today . we be take very significant power that we do not underestimate . that buy we time to have the leverage and the time we need to look at what must be do next , but we will act in the national interest . as the Prime Minister say yesterday , nothing be off the table . there be a suggestion that we should use the Civil Contingencies Act 2004 . that be difficult to do because it be very hard to meet the criterion ; there have to be a risk of death , so we do not meet that criterion . I agree with my hon . friend the Member for Sefton Central ( Bill Esterson ) that economic security and national security be two side of the same coin . the emergency legislation we have bring forward today be essential to protect British Steel , its workforce and the national interest . this government will never hesitate to act in the national interest to keep Britain secure at home and strong abroad , and this legislation be proof of that . today we take back control , and I urge all member of this House to vote for this Bill . the Speaker put the Question ( Order , this day ) , that the Bill be now read a second time . question agree to . Bill read a second time ; to stand committed to a Committee of the whole House ( Order , this day ) . further proceeding on the Bill stand postpone ( Order , this day ) . Steel Industry ( Special Measures ) Bill ( Money ) king ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Steel Industry ( Special Measures ) Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of : ( a ) any expense incur by the Secretary of State under or by virtue of this Act , and ( b ) any increase attributable to this Act in the sum payable under any other Act out of money so provide . — ( Kate Dearden . ) question agree to . Steel Industry ( Special Measures ) Bill Caroline Nokes in the Chair Proceedings resume ( Order , this day ) . consider in Committee it might be helpful if I begin by explain how the Committee stage will proceed . a number of amendment have be table , publish and select for debate . the amendment paper and selection list be available in the Vote Office . however , because it be now after 2 pm , there be no time available for debate . amendment that be not debate be not subsequently select for separate decision . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be obviously deeply regrettable that the Government be not prepare for the eventuality that they have face . we know they be not prepare because the Bill be not ready until 9 . 30 this morning . an obvious omission from the Bill be a sunset clause , and many member here today have speak in favour of such a clause . indeed , Ministers have suggest that they want this legislation to be time - limit . consequently , it be deeply regrettable that it sound as though the House will not have an opportunity to vote on a sunset clause . can you advise the House on whether there be anything that can be do at this stage to ensure that we get a vote on amendment 1 and / or new clause 2 ? I thank the hon . member for his point of order . he will know that it be long - stand practice that the Chair do not select for separate decision any proposition that have not be debate . it be therefore not possible for any of the amendment or new clause to be call at this stage . the Chair put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Order , this day ) . clause 1 to 10 order to stand part of the Bill . the Speaker resume the Chair . Bill report , without amendment . question put forthwith ( Order , this day ) , that the Bill be now read the third time . Bill read the third time and pass . under today ' s order of the House , I may not adjourn the House until any message from the Lords have be receive and I have report the Royal Assent of any Act agree by both Houses . the House be accordingly suspend until we have receive a message from the House of Lords about the amendment to the Bill and I be able to signify Royal Assent . I will arrange for the Division Bells to ring , and for a message to appear on the annunciator , a few minute before the sitting be resume . sit suspend . on resume — I inform the House that a message have be receive from the Lords , as follow : " the Lords agree to the Steel Industry ( Special Measures ) Bill , without amendment . " Royal Assent I have to notify the House , in accordance with the Royal Assent Act 1967 , that his Majesty have signify his Royal Assent to the follow Act : Steel Industry ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 . adjournment before I adjourn the House , I once again pass on my thank to all the staff of the House , who have work extremely hard at very short notice to make this sitting happen . the House stand adjourn — I have have apology from Jim Shannon , by the way . [ laughter . ] have a good Easter , everyone . House adjourn without question put ( Order , this day ) .