Oral Answers to Questions Northern Ireland the Secretary of State be ask — A75 and A77 road : Economic Impact what assessment he have make of the potential impact of the adequacy of the A75 and A77 road lead to cairnryan ferry port on the Northern Ireland economy . the Union connectivity review recognise the importance of the A75 and A77 road for passenger and freight between Northern Ireland and Great Britain . the Government have therefore allocate up to £ 5 million to support a feasibility study into bypass option for the A75 and have also encourage the Scottish Government to improve the A77 . there can not be a person in Northern Ireland who have not either be along the A75 or the A77 or have something deliver to they that have be drive through the ferry port at Cairnryan . we in Dumfries and Galloway and people across Scotland know that these be the highway from hell . this morning , even as we speak , the A75 have be close by another overturn lorry . we be cry out for improvement . can I count on the support of the might of the Northern Ireland Office to get the Department for Transport here to engage , as well as the Scottish Government ? I echo the hon . Gentleman ' s point , have drive along the road myself . my note helpfully say that average speed on the A75 and A77 be low than on several other scottish trunk road — you can say that again . I think that the Secretary of State for Scotland have write to he and offer a meeting to discuss the issue . we all want to see the road improve . to the A75 and the A77 , add the a9 , which be the link from the Highlands to Scotland . for 25 year we have be wait for it to be dualle ; the SNP have fail to do that . the Scottish Government can not make the ferry work and they can not make the road work . can the Secretary of State push they into action ? I have many and varied responsibility , but I be not aware that the a9 be one of they . I hope that the Scottish Government will have hear my hon . friend ' s strong plea . EU Trade Agreement : Economic Impact what assessment he have make of the potential impact of the UK - EU trade agreement announce on 19 May 2025 on the economy in Northern Ireland . what assessment he have make of the potential impact of the UK - EU trade agreement announce on 19 May 2025 on the economy in Northern Ireland . what assessment he have make of the potential impact of the UK - EU trade agreement announce on 19 May 2025 on the economy in Northern Ireland . the Government ' s new strategic partnership with the EU will deliver a broad range of economic benefit for Northern Ireland . in particular , a new agreement on agrifood and plant will far smooth trade flow across the Irish sea , protect the UK ' s internal market , reduce cost for business and improve consumer choice in Northern Ireland . I be pleased that the agreement secure with our large trading partner , the European Union , will make it easy for food and drink to be import and export . will the Secretary of State assure I and my constituent that all future conversation with trading partner will continue to prioritise high welfare standard and food standard on both side of the irish sea ? I can happily give my hon . friend that assurance . he will have notice how in another context — the trade agreement reach with the United States of America — we say that we would uphold our food standard in that agreement , and that be exactly what we have do . which of the sanitary and phytosanitary and agrifood requirement do the Secretary of State expect to be remove on good move from Great Britain to Northern Ireland as a result of the SPS agreement with the EU ? once we have negotiate the legal text and put our rulebook in line with current european arrangement , there will be : no need for SPS paperwork ; no mandatory identity check or physical check on good move ; no need for Northern Ireland plant health label ; an end to the ban on chill frozen meat move ; an end to the ban on movement of product of animal origin import to GB and then move to Northern Ireland ; and no onward paperwork or check on agrifood move for onward processing . that be why the SPS agreement in outline have be so widely welcome in Northern Ireland . I be pleased to say that the propose SPS agreement have be welcome by the Welsh farming community , include those in my constituency of Clwyd East . that be alongside the Ulster Farmers Union , the Federation of Small Businesses , the CBI , the Horticultural Trades Association , supermarket include Asda , M & S and Iceland , and many other . do the Secretary of State agree with I and with they that an SPS agreement would bring huge benefit for Wales , Northern Ireland and the rest of the UK ? it certainly would . it be a rare agreement that invite so much praise , certainly across the range of opinion in Northern Ireland . we all want to see it progress as quickly as possible , so we have get to turn it into a legal text and sort out our own legal rulebook . the benefit will then flow for business right across the United Kingdom . the Windsor framework be cause untold damage to business in Northern Ireland . it cost one of my local business £ 86 to bring a box of simple tie from GB to Northern Ireland because of the parcel border , and use farm machinery be now subject to EU import procedure , with some have be turn back from the port to Scotland in recent day . the late FSB report confirm that small business be be hard hit with red tape cost and uncertainty . will the Secretary of State accept that the reset be not help the here and now ? will he commit to meet these industry and help to sort out practical solution ? on the agricultural machinery point that the hon . member raise , if the machinery be come into and stay in Northern Ireland , it can be bring in , subject to cleaning , with a plant health label that be relatively straightforward . only if it might move into Ireland would it need to go through the red lane . I will make this general point : in 2023 Northern Ireland purchase of good from the rest of the United Kingdom rise by 16 . 2 % , and Northern Ireland be the fast grow region in the UK . with regard to agricultural machinery , I be sure that the Secretary of State be aware of a Northern Ireland farmer who take agricultural machinery from Northern Ireland to participate in a scottish agricultural show . on bring it back , it be reject in Northern Ireland and send back to Scotland because there may have be soil on the underside of a piece of agricultural equipment . do the Secretary of State really think that that make common sense ? it be the requirement of the Windsor framework , which the last Government negotiate , to address the basic problem of have two different system and an open border . everybody know that agricultural machinery need to be properly clean . if that be the case and the appropriate label , which be straightforward , be apply , there be nothing to stop the machinery move back to Northern Ireland . if the reset deal be suppose to bring an end to the SPS check , when will the custom post , which be there for the purpose of carry out those check , be demolish ? instead , the Secretary of State willingly preside over the ever - tighten EU noose on our economy , with agricultural machinery be the late that have to kowtow to EU diktat . meanwhile , trade diversion be rampant and the Secretary of State look the other way . when will he stop act as the Secretary of State for the EU and start act as the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland ? I do not accept the hon . Gentleman ' s characterisation . at some point , he have to acknowledge that follow our departure from the European Union — this be the issue that the previous Government have to address — the United Kingdom have one set of rule , the EU have another and there be an open border . how do we deal with that ? I be afraid that on mutual enforcement , the only idea I have ever hear he put forward be not a practical proposition . he need to take some responsibility for the consequence of his own argument . the EU - UK deal be warmly and broadly welcome across Northern Ireland to begin to unpick and undo some of the damage and friction create by Brexit , which be champion by some of those on the Opposition Benches . however , an FSB report out this week highlight continue problem , particularly for small business . will the Secretary of State reassure business that there will be co - design and full consultation as the text and the outworking of that very positive deal be bring through ? we will continue to consult as widely as possible in take forward the agreement that have be reach and outline with the European Union . there be help available for small business . it be important that it be as effective and easy to understand for those who seek to trade . I will look carefully at the report that the FSB have produce . regard the EU trade agreement , what barrier be the Secretary of State aware of that currently hinder free and unfettered trade from Northern Ireland within the UK ? what be the timescale for their removal ? good flow freely from Northern Ireland to the rest of the United Kingdom . far , one of the great advantage of the trade agreement that have be negotiate with India , the United States of America and the European Union be , in the case of India , a significant reduction of tariff on whisky , which will benefit producer in Northern Ireland , and be able to sell lamb into India . the deal with the United States of America will allow Northern Ireland farmer to sell their beef . I call the shadow Minister . contrary to what the Secretary of State have just tell the House , two week ago , the Federation of Small Businesses in Northern Ireland publish a report suggest that a third of small business that move good between Great Britain and Northern Ireland have cease supply customer or partner either in Great Britain or in Northern Ireland . under the Northern Ireland protocol , if the UK experience diversion of trade , we be entitle to take unilateral action to safeguard our internal market . will the Secretary of State tell the House whether he think that a third of small business cease trade in that way amount to a diversion of trade ? if not , perhaps he could tell we what would . there be other small business that be able to trade perfectly — [ interruption . ] the point that the hon . Gentleman need to recognise be that if some small business manage to move their good from GB to Northern Ireland , other can do so . in the end , it be a decision for an individual business where it choose to sell its good . it be the Windsor framework that apply now , not the Northern Ireland protocol , and I think he will accept that the Windsor framework represent a significant improvement on what be there before . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Federation of Small Businesses have warn that small and medium - sized enterprise in Northern Ireland continue to face disruption under the Windsor framework and , more importantly and sadly , that the Government have fail to effectively communicate the suppose benefit of dual market access so far . if dual market access be indeed a competitive advantage , as so many people across this House think it can and should be , can the Secretary of State specifically identify what concrete benefit it be provide to Northern Ireland business right now ? how do he respond to the grow criticism from firm across the UK who be burden with red tape and the fog of uncertainty ? I be interested by that observation in the FSB report because , as the House will testify , I spend a lot of my time extoll the virtue of the dual market access that Northern Ireland have as a result of the Windsor framework . I meet company as I travel around Northern Ireland who tell I about the benefit of it that they be feel . I think we all have a responsibility to extol the virtue of dual market access because , in my experience , if business can see an opportunity that allow they to sell more product , they will seize it with both hand . investment : technology business what recent discussion he have have with technology business on invest in Northern Ireland . what recent discussion he have have with technology business on invest in Northern Ireland . what recent discussion he have have with technology business on invest in Northern Ireland . I take every opportunity to promote investment into Northern Ireland , and our tech company in particular . I recently speak at the Big Data conference in New York and at London Tech Week to highlight our cutting - edge company in Northern Ireland . I hold a roundtable with tech business leader and visit Catagen in Belfast just last week to talk about the industrial strategy and the way that we can boost investment and growth . I wonder if the Minister might outline the many good reason for technology company to invest in Northern Ireland and tell we what she have do to promote that great opportunity ? I welcome the opportunity to promote Northern Ireland ' s tech company here in the Chamber today . More than 1 , 500 international company have set up operation in Northern Ireland . they tell I that this be due to the Government support , the strong working between the Government and the Executive , the dual market access , the unique concentration of tech company , the academic support from Ulster University and Queen ' s University and , above all , the people . Northern Ireland have a workforce with industry - ready skill and innovation in their dna . do the Minister agree that the strength of Northern Ireland ' s tech sector mean that it can play a huge part in become an AI superpower , support by this Government ? however , as we have hear in the Northern Ireland Committee , chair by my hon . friend the Member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) , there be a huge link between online safety and the rate of domestic abuse that we be see in Northern Ireland . can the Minister comment on how we can support and develop the sector while keep woman and girl safe ? we know that violence against woman and girl be an epidemic , and online safety be an important part of that . couple with Northern Ireland be an AI superpower , as my hon . friend rightly say , there be opportunity for AI company , many of which I have meet , to work on the tech to ensure that perpetrator be catch , that justice be do and that we ensure that online safety be take extremely seriously . the work that will be do in the industrial strategy to promote AI work — with the new AI growth zone , for example — can ensure that we lock that in . tech business be huge in my central London constituency , and I recognise that for the UK to do well , we need London to continue thrive and for Northern Ireland and the rest of the country to succeed , too . can the Minister assure I that the full benefit of the new industrial strategy will support company in Northern Ireland and that this Government be generate business opportunity in every corner of the United Kingdom ? the industrial strategy be good news for Northern Ireland . it be a bold long - term plan to give business and investor the certainty they need to thrive . the eight sector of the strategy map well with Northern Ireland ' s world - class strength , include advanced manufacturing , cyber , defence , the creative industry , life science and financial service . for each of those , there be increase UK - wide funding opportunity and , in Northern Ireland , specific fund on cyber - security , advanced manufacturing and the £ 30 million of that all - important R & D investment for innovation . I thank the Minister for her response so far . Northern Ireland be indeed open for business , and I be delighted that company be invest in my hometown . do she agree that the Dublin to Belfast economic corridor , which include my constituency of Lagan Valley , will play a key part and that it be a huge opportunity for investment ? Belfast be already at the heart of the UK ' s industrial strategy on cyber and tech and be lead the world . the Government have a bold vision to be , by 2035 , one of the top three place in the world to invest , create and scale up a tech business . Belfast and the growth and city deal , which be at the heart of that , be an important part . I have meet business across Belfast and Northern Ireland that be lead on this , and it be exciting to see . do the Minister accept , though , that poor road access from the north of the United Kingdom be one impediment to investment in Northern Ireland , and therefore another reason why we should see the A75 upgrading ? the Secretary of State have already answer the question on the road . it be important that we look at and address all part of the infrastructure that be hold Northern Ireland back in any way . tech business in Northern Ireland could take advantage of a Heathrow logistic hub . ballykelly in my constituency have a large available land base , a seaport close by , an airport next door to it , and a railway line that run through it . do the Minister think that be an excellent location for such a hub and tech business ? the hon . member be an excellent representative for his constituency and the opportunity there . I be sure his plea and bid have be hear . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . as Chair of the Select Committee and the ITV all - party parliamentary group , last night we host an event in Parliament with ITV and UTV there . what conversation be the Minister have with public sector broadcaster like ITV about future investment in Northern Ireland ? many different type of business — not only public sector broadcaster , but tech company , fintech , cyber - security and advanced manufacturing , such as Catagen , which I meet last week — be all part of the strong ecosystem in Northern Ireland . the fact that broadcaster can talk to advanced manufacturer which can talk to other make Northern Ireland such a fantastic place to invest in , and I be glad that that be be highlight in the House of Commons today . Britain lead the world in the gene editing of crop . this technology enable our farmer to produce disease and drought - resistant crop , reduce cost and increase food production . the UK - EU trade agreement mean Britain have to follow EU rule on sanitary and phytosanitary law . will the Minister give the House an assurance that the agreement will not slow that technology in Britain ? that be why the Secretary of State have be extoll and make clear how important the SPS agreement be . we be not take our foot off the pedal in any way towards that . it be not only agri - science , but life science that be lead the way for Northern Ireland and the UK and across the world . we want to ensure that we continue to support they in every way we can . Spending Review : Northern Ireland Executive what discussion he have have with the Northern Ireland Executive on the adequacy of the level of funding for Northern Ireland in the spending review 2025 . what discussion he have have with the Northern Ireland Executive on the adequacy of the level of funding for Northern Ireland in the spending review 2025 . what discussion he have have with the Northern Ireland Executive on the adequacy of the level of funding for Northern Ireland in the spending review 2025 . I regularly meet the Northern Ireland Finance Minister to discuss funding . the Government will provide Northern Ireland with a record settlement of £ 19 . 3 billion per year on average — the large in the history of devolution — and the Executive will also continue to receive over 24 % more per person , in line with their independently assess level of need . do the Secretary of State agree that record funding for Northern Ireland through the spending review reflect this Government ' s broad commitment to fair funding across the UK , include in area like Cornwall , where rurality , seasonal pressure and historical underfunding be finally be recognise , and that many in Cornwall would welcome the opportunity to far shape our own future through a level of devolution close to that enjoy in Northern Ireland ? the spending review settlement do indeed reflect the Government ' s commitment to provide resource right across the United Kingdom . a year ago , people be say there be go to be a fiscal cliff edge , but the money be make available for Northern Ireland mean that no one be say that now . thank you for call I , Mr Speaker — [ interruption . ] order . there be no need to run through the Chamber , Mr Morgan — that be in very bad taste . I apologise , Mr Speaker . local growth funding have provide vital investment for many community across Northern Ireland in recent year . will the Secretary of State confirm that the new local growth fund will give sector across Northern Ireland the long - await security they need ? my hon . friend will have notice the funding make available for local growth . as part of the spending review , discussion on the fiscal framework will be take forward by the Chief Secretary to the Treasury and the Department of Finance , to talk about thing like the Holtham review and capital borrowing by the Northern Ireland Housing Executive . whether it be Stoke - on - Trent in the west midland or the proud community in Northern Ireland , the spending review anticipate help to create good job and industrial improvement . will the Secretary of State set out how the spending review will help to improve the industrial base in Northern Ireland ? the spending review give the Northern Ireland Executive more fund to disperse as they see fit . it come alongside the publication of the industrial strategy , the fund that the Government be make available and the £ 30 million that will come to Northern Ireland through UK Research and Innovation . there be fund available and there be great wealth , talent and potential in Northern Ireland to make the good use of it . what assessment have the Minister make of the impact of Barnett fund on health in Northern Ireland , give that the Northern Ireland Department of Health ' s financial bid fall below request and require level each year ? it be important that we have fund for health , so will the Secretary of State outline what that will be ? the Government make funding available to the Northern Ireland Executive through the block grant . as the hon . Gentleman will know , it be for the Northern Ireland Executive to decide how they distribute the money between all the need in Northern Ireland , include health , where of course there be significant pressure . the public service transformation fund that the last Government make available be now begin to be use to reform some of the way in which the health service work . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the spending review settlement for the Northern Ireland Office explicitly cover the Finucane inquiry , but so far the Government have refuse to say how much money have be set aside for that inquiry . will the Secretary of State please tell the House how much do the Government expect the inquiry to cost ? the Finucane inquiry be begin its work . it will publish , as be normal , statement of the expenditure that it engage in . it depend how long the inquiry last and how much evidence be take , but the hon . Gentleman can rest assure that he will receive an answer in due course , as that process unfold . the Government have just have a spending review , so they must know how much they intend to spend . there will be a line in the Treasury account set aside for the Finucane inquiry . I do not understand why the Secretary of State find it so hard to tell the House how much we expect to spend . similarly , the Government must know how much compensation they expect to pay Gerry Adams , follow their inexplicable decision to drop the appeal that we lodge in that case . we have repeatedly press the Government to legislate to prevent that compensation from be pay and the Government have drag their heel . this morning , Policy Exchange have publish an excellent new report , " legislate about Gerry Adams and Carltona " , which set out a clear legal solution . the Government have nowhere far to hide , so will they finally do the right thing ? the hon . Gentleman need to keep up . I answer a parliamentary question yesterday in which I make it clear that we will deal with this issue , which arise because of the application of the Carltona principle in the Supreme Court judgment of 2020 , which the last government could not sort out in two and a half year . we will deal with it in our forthcoming legislation , and I will keep the House update . I commend the Secretary of State for at least answer a question yesterday . despite it be a day when the Labour Government be prepared to take money out of the pocket of the most vulnerable , they at least have the courage to stand forward and say that Gerry Adams would get none , so I thank the Secretary of State for that . I also advise he not to ignore the warning of the Federation of Small Businesses , which in its report be explicit that the Windsor framework be fracture the United Kingdom ' s internal market . that be a cause for concern . when we be talk of the spending review two week ago , he be ask whether the financial transaction capital be make available to Casement Park be additional ; he know that the blue book have a flat line for the next five year , so what be the answer ? the answer to the right hon . Gentleman be that it be additional . the Secretary of State know that the blue book have a flat line for the next five year . talk of economic growth , let I say he also know that there be a commitment to an enhanced investment zone in Northern Ireland . when do he believe the business of Northern Ireland will benefit from that ? if the right hon . Gentleman just bear with we , I hope we can see progress on that in the not - too - distant future . before we come to Prime Minister ' s question , I welcome to the Gallery his Excellency Ahmad Safadi , the Speaker of the House of Representatives in Jordan , and his delegation . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 2 July . this Saturday — [ interruption . ] order . there seem to be a bit of a challenge over who can cheer the most . I have never know one Prime Minister get as much cheer . [ interruption . ] I think they be cheer more , Mr Speaker , and quite right too ! this Saturday mark the 77th birthday of our national health service , and I want to begin by thank our dedicated NHS staff for their service . in that 77th year , I be proud that this Labour Government have deliver 4 million extra appointment , 1 , 700 more gps and the low waiting list for two year . the Labour party be proud to have be the party that create the NHS , and tomorrow we be announce our 10 - year health plan to build an nhs that be fit for the future , so that in many year and decade to come we can still proudly celebrate the anniversary of the NHS . may I also wish England and Wales the good of luck in the woman ' s Euros and congratulate England ' s under - 21 on retain the Euros ? this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . when this Labour Government extend free school meal to half a million more child last month , Laura — a work mum in Rochdale — tell I it would save she £ 500 a year . she say : " I be over the moon . only Labour would have do this . " do the Prime Minister agree that people vote Labour a year ago for not just change , but hope , and that cut child poverty be the moral mission of this Government in order to help every child in this country ? I be really proud that we extend free school meal for another half a million child , include Laura ' s . it be people like Laura and give child the good start in life that we have in our mind ' s eye . I think the child poverty taskforce visit Rochdale recently and will continue to back parent like Laura . we have already start roll out not just free school meal , but free breakfast club , and extend childcare . that be real change under this Labour Government . I call the Leader of the Opposition . first of all , can I take this opportunity to congratulate the hon . member for Rochdale ( Paul Waugh ) on be the toady of the week , help the Prime Minister ? [ interruption . ] order . there be a load of people want to catch my eye today . there be some free hit on the Government Benches — hon . member should not waste their opportunity . it have be a difficult week for the Prime Minister , so let we start with something simple . can he tell the House how much his welfare Bill be go to save ? let I start by say that free school meal matter on this side of the House . in relation to welfare , what we deliver last night be a Bill that end mandatory reassessment of those with severe disability . that be the right thing to do . it rebalance universal credit — that be long overdue — and it set out a pathway to reform of the personal independence payment . it be consistent with the principle I set out throughout : if you can work , you should work ; if you need help into work , the state should provide that help — the system that the Conservatives break do not do so ; and if you can not work — [ interruption . ] order . there be one or two member who I can spot immediately : the usual voice , the same name . please — it be too early to leave the Chamber . if you can not work , you must be support and protect . the reform welfare system that we be put in place will be well for individual , well for the taxpayer and well for the economy . I do not think the Prime Minister actually watch what happen in the House yesterday — his Bill be completely gutte . there be a u - turn in the middle of the debate , remove clause 5 . where on earth be he ? he can not answer the question because he know his Bill do not save any money ; it be go to cost million . this be the first Prime Minister in history to propose a Bill to save money who end up with a Bill that cost money . if the Bill do not cut welfare spending , can the Prime Minister tell the House how many people it will get into work ? I be glad that the Leader of the Opposition have ask that , because it give I the opportunity to say that we have already start change the jobcentre and invest in support back into work . the Trailblazer scheme be do exactly what she ask I : get people back into work . last night ' s Bill will help people back into work , and of course the timms review be ongoing , but I will tell the House what will not help people back into work and what will not help control the cost : vote to keep the broken system , and that be what the Conservatives do last night . everybody in this House accept that the current system be break . it invite the question , " who break it ? " the Conservatives break it , and last night they vote for the status quo . the broken system be their policy . that will not help individual , it will not help the taxpayer and it certainly will not help the economy . I will tell the Prime Minister what we do on welfare . [ interruption . ] why be Labour Members laugh ? they do not know . my party deliver the big reform of welfare in government . we get record number of people into work , include million of disabled people , and we cut the deficit every year until covid . the fact be that we be not scared of do difficult thing . we get people back into work . what the Prime Minister forget be that since the election — since he become Prime Minister — an additional 1 , 000 people a day be sign on to incapacity benefit . that be 50 % more than under we . astonishingly , because of the mess that the Government make yesterday — because there be no more saving — sickness benefit alone be set to rise to £ 100 billion on the Prime Minister ' s watch . he can not reduce that now — [ interruption . ] order . Mr McKee , I think we have have a run - in before . I certainly do not want any more . seriously — you be obviously not get your timing right , because I can hear your voice every time . I will start again , Mr Speaker . [ interruption . ] yes , and louder for those at the back : sickness benefit be set to rise to £ 100 billion because of the Government ' s mess . they can not now reduce that , because after last night ' s humiliate u - turn , we know that the Prime Minister can not control his mps . they be cheer now , but I can point out Labour Members who sign the amendment : you do , and you do . over 100 people sign that reason amendment until the Bill be completely gutte . the Prime Minister say that he would take the difficult decision , but be the reality not that he be too weak to get anything do ? I will tell the right hon . Lady what the Conservatives do to the welfare system — they break it . it be the same with the NHS . what do they do ? they break it . it be the same with the economy . what do they do ? they break it . they break everything that they touch . now she describe the broken system that we be try to fix . what do she do ? she vote against fix the system . I will spell it out : they vote last night for the system that be keep 1 million young people not learn or earn . that be a disgrace . they vote for a system where we have 3 million people out of work on ill health . they vote for that system ; we be fix it . we be clear up the mess that they leave , just like we be clear up the NHS and the economy . the Prime Minister have get some brass neck . have he read the paper this morning ? that Bill will achieve nothing . it be a pointless waste of time , and it be absolute proof that he do not have a plan . let I tell the House what be go to happen : in November , the Chancellor be go to put up our taxis to pay for the Prime Minister ' s incompetence . we on the Opposition Benches know that you can not tax your way to growth — [ interruption . ] these be the same member who cheer when they talk about the national insurance rise — the job tax ; why be they complain now ? People out there be frightened . can the Prime Minister reassure they by rule out tax rise in the autumn Budget ? the right hon . Lady know that no Prime Minister or Chancellor ever stand at the Dispatch Box and write future Budgets . that be not what the Conservatives do and it be not what we be do , and she know it . she talk about growth , but for 14 year we have stagnation , and that be what cause the problem . I be really pleased to show the progress that we be make , and I can update the House . last week , Amazon put £ 40 billion of investment into this country — one of the big investment of its type . that bring inward investment to £ 120 billion in the first year of this Labour Government . I can also tell the House that business confidence be the high for nine year . that be long than the whole time that the Leader of the Opposition have be in Parliament . figure this week have also demonstrate and show that we have the fast growth in the G7 in the first quarter of this year . what a difference from the mess the Conservatives make . that be the difference that a Labour Government make . the Prime Minister talk about job . unemployment have rise every month since Labour take office . have he speak to Nissan , by the way , and look at what be happen there ? this man have forget that his welfare Bill be there to plug a black hole create by the Chancellor . instead , they be create new one . [ interruption . ] the Chancellor be point at I , but she look absolutely miserable . [ interruption . ] they can point as much as they like , but the fact be that Labour mp be go on the record say that the Chancellor be toast . the reality be that she be a human shield for the Prime Minister ' s incompetence . in January , he say that she would be in post until the next election . will she really ? well , the right hon . Lady certainly win ' t . I have to say that I be always cheer up when she ask I question or respond to a statement , because she always make a complete mess of it and show just how unserious and irrelevant the Conservatives be . the right hon . Lady talk about the black hole , but they leave a £ 22 billion black hole in our economy , and we be clear it up . I be really proud that in the first year of a Labour Government , we have get free school meal , breakfast club , childcare , and £ 15 billion invest in transport in the north and the midland . with planning regulation , planning and infrastructure be pound forward . we be build 1 . 5 million home and have the big investment in social and affordable housing . we also have the three trade deal — remember , those be the one that the Conservatives could not get — include the US trade deal . on Monday , those tariff come down . that secure the job at Jaguar Land Rover . that be who we care about on the Government Benches . how awful for the Chancellor that the Prime Minister could not confirm that she would stay in place . he talk about his year in office . this week mark the first anniversary of Labour come into office . [ interruption . ] yeah , yeah , let ' s have it . the whip can not get their mps in the Lobby , but they can get they to cheer at the right time . the fact be that the Prime Minister ' s own mp be say that this Government be " incoherent and shambolic " — it be the hon . member for Liverpool Wavertree ( Paula Barker ) who say that . I could go on and on , but the fact be that it have be mistake after mistake after mistake . there be no plan to get people into work , there be no plan to cut the welfare budget , and there be no strategy ; there be just a series of humiliate u - turn , as with winter fuel and as with groom gang . what be really shocking be the fact that every other party in the House vote for even more welfare spending yesterday — yes , those mp behind the Prime Minister , and the Liberal Democrats , and Reform . the conservative party believe that this country need to live within its mean . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] we know what we believe , but this be a Prime Minister who have u - turn on everything he have do in office , include his own speech , because he do not know what he believe . with left - wing Labour MPs now run the government , be it not work people who will now pay the price ? this be why the Leader of the opposition always cheer I up . she talk about live within our mean , have leave a £ 22 billion black hole . she talk about our first year . I be really proud of our first year in government . we promise 2 million extra NHS appointment , and we deliver 4 million — a promise make and a promise deliver . we promise the big upgrade to worker ' right in a generation within the first 100 day — a promise make and a promise deliver . we promise free breakfast club — a promise make and a promise deliver . on ban bonus for water boss who pollute our river , which be a mess the Conservatives leave — a promise make and a promise deliver . create GB Energy — a promise make and a promise deliver . the large increase in defence spending since the last Labour Government — a promise make and a promise deliver . put more money in the pocket of work people , particularly the 3 million who be the low pay , through the national minimum wage — a promise make and a promise deliver . we be only get start . the Chancellor have lead on all these issue , and we be grateful to she for it . unlike the Conservatives , this Government have not drag their foot in ban zombie knife and ninja - style sword in their effort to tackle knife crime . in Croydon , where youth violence have cast a devastating shadow across our community , our local police be run a surrender scheme this month to take those dangerous weapon off our street . will the Prime Minister join I in commend the tireless work of Croydon ' s police officer , and will he outline what his government be do to ensure that the Met police have the resource they need both to protect neighbourhood policing and to deal with the unique challenge they face ? my hon . friend be right to speak of the importance of ban these despicable weapon . I know how much she care about this issue . the ban on zombie knife and machete come into effect last year , and the ban on ninja sword will come into effect this August . the Crime and Policing Bill will increase penalty for illegal sale and will give the police new power to seize knife . what do the Conservatives do when we put that Bill before the House to take those measure ? they vote against it . Knife crime soar on their watch , and they have clearly learn absolutely nothing . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . yesterday , the Government be ask the House to vote for a law that would mean that someone with a condition such as Parkinson ' s or multiple sclerosis would qualify for a personal independence payment today , but someone diagnose with the same condition , with the very same symptom , in a few month ' time would not . we all know that the cost of welfare need to come down , but that be not a fair way to do it . until he lose control yesterday , the Prime Minister be argue for that approach . have he change his mind on this , or not ? the Stephen Timms review — a very important review — will look into this issue , but what we do do last night be end mandatory reassessment for those with severe disability . I think that the right hon . Gentleman and his party care about thing like that . it be the right thing to do , and they vote against it . we have rebalance universal credit , which be long overdue . I think he believe that , but what do he do last night ? he vote against it . we set out a pathway to reform personal independence payment , which be something he argue for every week , and what do he do when he have the chance ? he vote against it . the House and Labour Back Benchers will note that the Prime Minister do not answer my question . moreover , if he look at our proposal for welfare reform to cut down the bill , he would not be in the mess that he be in . move on , from Hillsborough to Grenfell , from Primodos to Horizon , and from the contaminated blood scandal to nuclear test veteran , the bereaved and survivor of some of our country ' s most appalling scandal have come together to call for a legal duty of candour , and for the secondary duty need to make it practical and effective for investigation and inquiry . they be now frightened that the Government be water down these proposal to such an extent that they would be toothless . after month of delay , can the Prime Minister reassure campaigner that his Hillsborough law will include a real legal duty of candour , as he promise ? yes , it will . as the right hon . Gentleman may know , I have know some of the Hillsborough family for many year — I meet they over a decade ago — and know exactly what they have be through . various other group have suffer similar injustice with similar follow - up , which be an additional injustice on top of the original injustice . that be why we will bring forward a Hillsborough law — it be a commitment I have make . I have be talk to the family myself in recent week to make sure that we get this right . it be important that we get it right , but it will have a legal duty of candour . I have a follow - on question . the Prime Minister visit my constituency in 2022 and tell family that " one of my first act will be to put the Hillsborough law on the statute book . " he repeat the same promise at conference last year , say that the Bill would be publish on the anniversary in April . that do not happen . however , the Government be now plan to table a water - down version that do not deserve to be name a " Hillsborough law " . after pmq , my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool West Derby ( Ian Byrne ) will seek to introduce the real Hillsborough law . can the Prime Minister finally honour his promise and back the law in full ? if not , why not ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this , and remember well the visit we have . this be a really serious issue , and it be important that we get it right . I be fully committed to introduce a Hillsborough law , include a legal duty of candour for public servant and criminal sanction for those who refuse to comply . it be important that we get it right . I have be personally engage with some of the family on this , because , as I say , I have see at first hand what they have be through for over 10 year . I first meet they when I be Director of Public Prosecutions and there be consideration of the order in which certain thing would happen . that be actually about a different issue — it be about an issue of great concern to they — but my hon . friend be right to raise this . we will bring this forward . I just want to take the time to get it right and then put it before the House . in his victory speech last year , the Prime Minister promise to " end the chaos " . do he think that the public still believe he ? we have deliver more in the first year of a Labour Government than the SNP have deliver in 20 year . let I give the right hon . gentleman one example . we say that we would deliver 2 million extra appointment for the NHS in England , and we have deliver 4 million . what a contrast with the SNP Government . they have be in charge for about 20 year , and Scotland ' s doctor have say in the past week that the Scottish NHS be " die before our very eye " . the SNP should be ashamed . its own Public Health Minister admit that the SNP ' s failure be " cost life " . Scotland need a new direction so that we can bring waiting list down in Scotland , just as we have do in England . Hemel Hempstead be a new town that be build by a Labour Government after the second world war and provide decent housing to family like mine , yet 80 year on , the no . 1 issue in my case work be a shortage of housing . I therefore welcome this Government ' s commitment to build thousand of new home . in my constituency , we be look at a Hemel Garden Communities scheme that could provide 11 , 000 new home . do the Prime Minister agree that this development need to be a mix of genuinely affordable house to buy and council house to rent , and that it must be accompany by the right health , education and road infrastructure ? I totally agree with my hon . friend . project such as this be essential to build the 1 . 5 million home we need , while at the same time create vibrant and strong community . in keep with the Attlee legacy , we be support 47 locally - lead garden community to deliver ten of thousand more home , and of course deliver the big boost to social and affordable housing in a generation . on Monday afternoon , a four - year - old girl be seriously injure after be hit by a car on Lewes Road , just off the a259 in Newhaven in my constituency . I can report to the House that she be recover well in hospital . resident in Newhaven , Seaford and nearby Sussex coastal town have be warn about how unsafe these road be . indeed , the county council submit a fully cost plan for safety improvement on the a259 to the Government , but funding remain block . so I be appeal to the Prime Minister directly : will he personally intervene to unblock the funding need to make the a259 and surround road safe , to ensure that there be never a repeat of such an incident ? I be very sorry to hear of the incident that the hon . member cite . my sympathy be with the family , and I think I would send the good wish of the whole House to the family and to that little girl . he speak about the a259 , and I do hear a lot about this road because it run through the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Brighton Kemptown and Peacehaven ( Chris Ward ) . I know that it need address , and I know how strongly they have both be in raise this and campaign on it . a decision will be set our shortly . I think the hon . Member have meet the Roads Minister , but I will make sure he be keep fully update on development . I be proud to represent thousand of people work in the defence sector — ordinary people do extraordinary job to keep our country safe — and I be delighted that the Defence Secretary recently join I in my constituency to mark this Government ' s £ 15 billion investment in the Atomic Weapons Establishment . do the Prime Minister agree with I that our commitment to defence sector investment be vital not just for our national security , but for job , opportunity and growth in constituency such as Reading West and Mid Berkshire ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend , who be a fantastic advocate for her constituent . she be right to highlight the important work by the defence sector in her constituency and , of course , right across the United Kingdom . we be invest £ 15 billion in our sovereign nuclear warhead programme . that will support nearly 10 , 000 job , include many in her constituency . that be the defence dividend in action — an historic boost to defence spending — represent and reflect in good , well - pay job across the United Kingdom . give that the Government appear to be in listen mode , will the Prime Minister agree to scrap other measure that be push more people into poverty , such as the cruel two - child benefit cap , and the harsh and totally unacceptable cut to universal credit for ill and disabled people that remain in yesterday ' s dog ' s breakfast of a Bill ? I do not want to be ungenerous , but I do not think I be go to be listen to the hon . member or his party . they be the one who put an £ 80 billion unfunded tax commitment before the electorate at the last election . they be the one who talk about change and clean power , but every single time there be an infrastructure project or there be any change that be need , they block it , include in their own constituency . while we all revere the football star of the past , many be struggle with welfare issue , include organise financial fraud and head injury link to the onset of dementia . may I give the Prime Minister this letter on player welfare from 303 former player , which local champion such as John Stiles and international superstar , include Kevin Keegan and Graeme Souness , have sign ? will he agree to meet a group of former player , as cite in the recent letter to he from one of his hero , Michael Thomas , who of course shine when he play for Arsenal and Liverpool ? may I just start by congratulate Dawn Astle on her recent and richly deserve MBE for her work on behalf of former player ? I do remember Michael Thomas very well — put that goal in during injury time in 1989 to take the lead ; it be a fantastic victory . I have have the pleasure of meet he and discuss with he the very campaign that my hon . friend raise , and I will certainly meet he again . because athlete have bring we so much joy , they should have proper support from their sporting body on health and welfare , and we will ensure that they do . I refer member to my role as a serve county councillor . July be Good Care Month and Jane Austen tell we that the good place for convalescence by the sea be Cromer in my constituency . however , thank to Norfolk ' s Conservative county council , Cromer risk lose its convalescence facility forever . reablement centre such as Benjamin Court be exactly what the NHS need , yet the Tories be shut it down . will the Prime Minister ensure that the relevant health Minister meet I and concerned local campaigner to discuss what can be do to save Benjamin Court ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that important issue . decision on service be matter for the integrate care board — that mean they be take locally , obviously — but I be glad he have raise it , because we agree that the sector need reform . unlike the Conservatives , we be invest in the sector , with £ 4 billion of additional funding alongside an independent commission into adult social care to improve the quality of care across the United Kingdom , include for his constituent . figure from British Transport police show a staggering 47 % rise in violence and serious public order offence against rail staff between 2021 and 2024 . this epidemic of violence be allow to escalate under the previous Conservative Government , who fail to act while frontline worker be increasingly put at risk . do the Prime Minister agree that our transport worker deserve to do their job without fear , and will he reaffirm this Labour Government ' s commitment to ensure that train operate company be hold fully accountable for protect those who keep our railway safe and move ? those be shocking statistic . rail staff work incredibly hard to keep our country run and people safe . the abuse and assault on staff be utterly unacceptable . we be take measure to make sure they be safe . we want to encourage the use of body - wear camera , which have be prove to reduce violence against staff by up to 47 % . may I take this opportunity to thank our outstanding British Transport police for everything they do to support staff and passenger ? this time a year ago , farmer and many other across the country be about to go to the poll , perhaps to vote labour for the first time because they take the Prime Minister at his word that he and his party would never leave farmer in the background again . within week , however , that trust have be completely shatter by the family farm tax . farmer know how devastating that tax will be , the industry know how devastating that tax will be , we on the conservative Benches know how devastating it will be , and more and more of the Prime Minister ' s own Back Benchers do , too . follow the u - turn on winter fuel payment , follow the u - turn on groom gang , and follow the many , many u - turn on welfare payment yesterday , will the Prime Minister now tell farmer up and down the country when it will be their turn for a u - turn and that he will scrap the family farm tax ? this time a year ago , the country be line up to boot the Conservatives out of office , and long may they remain there . we put in place the most significant funding for farmer in the Budget , we have a road map for farmer that we be work on and , of course , where the Conservatives fail to spend the money , we be spend it with farmer . the nuclear industry provide over 29 , 000 job across the north - west , include thousand in Birchwood Park in my constituency , which be a globally lead centre of nuclear innovation . I welcome the Government ' s new modern industrial strategy , which will give business the confidence to invest after year of economic chaos under the last government . will the Prime Minister outline how the industrial strategy will support the growth of the nuclear sector , which be vital to our energy security , and to create thousand more high - pay , high - skilled and unionised job ? my hon . friend be a champion of nuclear and I know how important it be to thousand of her constituent . we be secure home - grow energy and drive bill down by unleash a golden age of nuclear . that include Sizewell C , which we announce just two or three week ago , and small modular reactor . that mean job , investment and opportunity across the country , include in her constituency . the rush change to the welfare Bill not only leave Parliament with whiplash , but more importantly leave many vulnerable people live in limbo , such as Chris and Emma in my constituency who be set to lose the PIP that they rely on for work . Chris have already lose a vital carer through all this uncertainty . it be not right that in our society vulnerable people have to be worried about what the Government will do next . do the Prime Minister understand that this have erode trust at a time when we need it most ? what would be well for build trust be an accurate description of what we be do . it be important that the Stephens Timms review will look at this really important issue , but we have to get on with reform . we have a broken system that do not work for those who be use the system and do not work for the taxpayer or the economy . we have to get on and reform it , and we will do so in the way we set out yesterday . I pay tribute to the veteran of the Royal Naval Association Crosby branch who be in the Gallery today . Gabe Santer , a 15 - year - old , fall to his death from a multi - storey car park in Liverpool in 2020 , one of the many to die in such tragic circumstance , include in my constituency . my Multi - Storey Car Parks ( Safety ) Bill seek to prevent such death . will the Government look carefully at its content as part of a national suicide prevention strategy ? the answer be yes , we will look at the content of the Bill . I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise it . across the House , we all have tragic experience of suicide . our thought be with Gabe ' s family and friend . we will conduct a call for evidence on part k of the building regulation about minimum guard height so that the necessary protection be in place to prevent future tragedy , and we will also look at the content of the Bill . People across the Staffordshire Moorlands be extremely concerned by the number of application grant for solar farm and battery storage facility . will the Prime Minister give they some reassurance that he will change the law and that we will see good agricultural land save for produce food , as it rightly should be ? it be right that we do both , and that we do support agriculture . the right hon . Lady say that people across the country be concern about solar , but they be also concerned about their bill come down , after they go up under the previous Government . the only way to get they down be on renewable , and that be what we be do . for the final question , I call Jessica Morden . this morning in Westminster Hall , Centenary Action present sash handmade by a team of wonderful woman work out of ReMake Newport to every one of our 264 woman mps to mark today ' s 97th anniversary of the Representation of the People ( Equal Franchise ) Act 1928 . will the Prime Minister join I in welcome this initiative , which celebrate the contribution woman make in public life ? although we now have a record number of woman mps , do he agree that we must continue to break down barrier for woman on our way to achieve the mission of a gender - equal Parliament ? I thank the woman in my hon . friend ' s constituency , through she , for their hard work on this initiative . have 264 woman mps be really significant progress in this House . I be incredibly proud that at the last election 100 new female Labour mp be elect , mean that the number of female mps in the Labour party be now at a record high . on the 97th anniversary of the equal franchise Act , it should be a source of great pride to the House that we have a record number of female member . British Indian Ocean Territory : sovereignty ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs if he will make a statement on the ratification of the UK - Mauritius treaty on the future sovereignty of the British Indian Ocean Territory . I thank the right hon . Lady for her question . on 22 May , the Diego Garcia treaty be sign and lay before the House . as the Defence Secretary tell the House on the day of the signature , this treaty secure the strategically important UK - US military base on the island of Diego Garcia . the Diego Garcia military base be essential to the security of the UK and our key ally , include the United States , and be essential to keep the british people safe . it be also one of our most significant contribution to the transatlantic defence and security partnership . the base enable rapid deployment of operation and force across the middle east , east Africa and south Asia , help combat some of the most challenging threat , include from terrorism and hostile state , and it have a unique strategic location . the treaty ensure that the UK retain complete operational control of Diego Garcia well into the next century . it have robust security measure that prevent threat from the outer island of the archipelago , include : a 24 nautical mile buffer zone where nothing can be build or place without UK consent ; a rigorous process to prevent activity on the wide island ; a strict ban on foreign security force on the outer island , whether civilian or military ; and a binding obligation to ensure the base be never undermine . these robust provision give the UK an effective veto over any activity that present a clear and direct threat to the base on Diego Garcia , and they will categorically prevent our adversary from compromise the base . the treaty set out that it can be ratify once both party have complete their relevant domestic process , and for the UK this of course include scrutiny of the treaty by Parliament and make the necessary change to domestic law . the treaty be lay before the House on the day of signature for scrutiny under the usual process set out in the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010 . we welcome the report into the treaty by the International Agreements Committee in the other place , which recognise the importance of ratify the treaty to secure the base , and the debate on Monday in the other place in which peer reject a cynical conservative motion to block ratification . nevertheless , before the treaty be ratify , the Government will also bring forward primary legislation , as I have say on many occasion , which will be scrutinise and debate in the usual way , and secondary legislation as necessary . ahead of ratification , the Government will also make a ministerial statement in both Houses , provide a factual update on chagossian eligibility for resettlement and on the modality of the chagossian trust fund . that will also enable further discussion in a proper manner . the treaty will then enter into force on the first day of the month follow the date on which both party have exchange letter confirm these process be complete . this landmark agreement secure the future of our strategically critical UK - US military base on Diego Garcia . it be , as I say , a crucial contribution to the defence and security partnership that we hold . as the Defence Secretary tell this House , there be no alternative but to act , and in so do we have protect Britons at home and overseas . [ interruption . ] if the opposition do not recognise that fact , why do they start negotiate in the first place ? thank you , Mr Speaker for grant this urgent question . with the 21 - day crag process about to conclude , it be a disgrace that Labour have breach the parliamentary convention and deny the House a meaningful debate and vote on ratification . the Minister say that we will get a vote on the Bill , but have a vote on the Bill be not the same as vote on a treaty under CRAG . early this week , the House of Lords have a debate and vote , where the Lib Dems side with Labour in back this £ 30 billion surrender treaty , which be subsidise tax cut in Mauritius . why can not we have a debate and vote in this House ? what be Ministers afraid of ? be they afraid that their Back Benchers , now worried about benefit cut and the impact of unpopular tax rise , will question why so much money be be hand over for a territory that we own and will force they into another embarrassing u - turn ? be they afraid that mps across the House will do the math even , and see that the actual amount of money go to Mauritius will be at least £ 30 billion and not the £ 3 . 4 billion accountancy valuation claim that minister talk about ? be they afraid that Labour ' s bareface hypocrisy and appal treatment of the chagossian community will be expose ? the Minister once say : " the people of Chagos must be at the heart of decision about their future " — [ Official Report , 28 October 2015 ; Vol . 601 , c . 192WH . ] but this surrender treaty betray they . he have betray they , leave any decision on resettlement and support through the trust fund in the hand of Mauritius . with a legal case ongoing , will the Minister extend the CRAG process until all legal challenge have conclude ? will the Minister finally admit that Labour make October ' s bad deal even weak by give up the unilateral right to extend the lease on the base and ditch the clause authorise the UK to exercise sovereign right ? the Prime Minister of Mauritius have say that it have do that , so will the Minister finally admit it ? will the Minister confirm that there be no guarantee that the current level of marine protection will continue ? there be too much ambiguity ; we have not have clarity . there be no guarantee on security or on safeguarding , unanswered question about notification requirement around the base , and no guarantee that Mauritius will not pursue further lawfare to stop operation at the base if it think they contravene international law , include try to block nuclear weapon , as the Pelindaba treaty now apply to the Chagos island . the Minister should scrap this treaty or at least have the courage to bring it here for a proper debate , full scrutiny and finally a vote in this House . I genuinely have to say , as somebody who have respect for and like the right hon . Lady , that I be disappoint by the tone of those remark . I do not know who write this stuff ; I do not know whether it be just performative politic , or rhetoric — I don ' t know what . I should point out that I have receive and answer over 100 write parliamentary question from the right hon . Lady . I have answer over 250 question in total on the deal and the process . we have have no few than six urgent question in this House . we have have two statement from the Government , from the Foreign Secretary and the Defence Secretary . I personally brief the right hon . Lady and answer many of her question in my office just a couple of week ago , in good faith and in detail . I have be subject , quite rightly , to robust scrutiny on these issue not only by the Foreign Affairs Committee , but by the International Relations and Defence Committee and the International Agreements Committee in the other House , in great detail . I do not know whether the right hon . Lady and her team be simply not read the transcript or the answer to the question , but I have repeatedly answer they . she might not like the answer , Mr Speaker , but I have answer these question . I have set out the position on cost . I have set out the position on the security arrangement . I have set out the position on the veto that we have . the fact be that this deal secure this base , and it secure our national security and that of our ally . it be absolutely right that it have have proper scrutiny , and there will be a vote , because there will be a vote on the legislation that we will put before the House in due course . on a recent visit to Washington with the Foreign Affairs Committee , I be strike by the support express by the US Government for the deal to secure the long - term future of the military base on Diego Garcia . alongside the US , our five Eyes ally support the deal , NATO support the deal , and India support the deal . do the Minister agree that the opposition would do well to listen to our close neighbour and ally instead of try to play party politic with our national security ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . national security be the top priority of this Government , and work with our crucial ally , include the United States , be key to that . he be absolutely right to point out the support that be gain for this deal through a full and detailed inter - agency process in the United States , at the high level of the Administration , as well as the support from our five Eyes partner and from India . the fact be that this deal secure the base and secure our capability , and it would not have be sign off if it do not do that . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the shambolic process of secure this deal have leave many question for the House , but the glare omission at the heart of that negotiation have be the failure by successive government to properly consult the chagossian people . for much of their history , Chagossians have be deny consultation on who govern they and their right to self - determination . we Liberal Democrats now fear that in handing over the sovereignty of the island to Mauritius without properly reflect the interest of Chagossians , the Government be only reinforce that legacy . the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) criticise the action of Liberal Democrat peer in the other place , yet only the Liberal Democrats champion the right of the chagossian people and secure a commitment from the Government to make statement to both Houses on their approach before ratification . in the light of those shortcoming , it be wrong that the Government have not bring the treaty to this House for scrutiny . will the Minister reverse that decision today and give parliamentarian the opportunity to assess and vote on the final deal ? I genuinely thank the hon . gentleman for the generally constructive way in which he and his colleague have approach the process . he be absolutely right to speak about the Chagossians . indeed , as I have point out many time , the Chagossians ' interest in this matter have be at the heart of our discussion . we have the trust fund ; we have the agreement to start visit again . of course , Mauritius will be able to restart a programme of resettlement . he have hear the remark make by my noble friend in the other place , in response to the question that his honourable colleague raise . we have be very clear about what we will do in that regard , and I hold to that here today . I have to challenge the suggestion that the treaty have not receive scrutiny . it be receive scrutiny right now . it have be receive scrutiny in the Foreign Affairs Committee , it have receive scrutiny in the other place , and it have receive scrutiny through parliamentary question . it be receive scrutiny and it be absolutely right that it do . the Minister have just set out the scrutiny that this matter have receive in various place , but I be really take by the number of question that he say he have receive from the shadow Foreign Secretary on this subject . can he tell I how many question he have receive on other matter of global importance ? my hon . Friend ask an important question . since the treaty be lay , I have have 50 write question from the right hon . Lady . in comparison , I have have four on Gibraltar , two on Ukraine , and one on Poland . he be right that this matter have receive scrutiny . I be not be funny , but it be amazing that the Minister have those figure to hand . the hon . Gentleman , for whom I have a huge amount of respect , keep say that the Government have no choice but to do this deal . I do not believe that to be true . my successor , Lord Cameron , do not believe that to be true either , which be why neither he nor I sign off an agreement . will the Minister please explain to the House in detail why he believe that he have no choice , include what body , at what time , and with what jurisdiction ? in the interest of time , I refer the right hon . member to the detailed evidence that I give in the House of Lords on this matter the other day , include on the legal circumstance . he know the risk to the operation of the base in the medium and short term , and he recognise the risk of a bind legal judgment , which we believe to be inevitable . his government know that , which be why they start the process . he may not have be able to conclude the deal — I accept that , Mr . Speaker — but the previous Government go through 11 round of negotiation because they recognise the importance of do this deal . they know that secure the facility be crucial to our national security . we put our national security and secure this base first , and that have meet with the approval of the United States and other five Eyes ally . I have to admit that I be rather confused , because I be sure that the shadow Foreign Secretary be in the Cabinet when the decision be make to start these negotiation . too often , we focus on the military aspect of this deal , but can the Minister confirm that it will also end a dangerous , irregular migration route into the UK ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . this Government take early action — even before the conclusion of the deal — to ensure that that route be close down by the memorandum of understanding that we reach with St Helena , for which I again thank St Helena . again , Mr . Speaker , I be rightly scrutinise by this House on that . my hon . friend be absolutely right on that point , and that be why we have do this deal . can the Minister tell the House why he think China support this deal ? I have be very clear on this : the United States , our five Eyes partner and India support this deal . Mauritius be one of the few country not to join the belt and road initiative . it be very clear that the deal be in the interest of our security and that of our ally — otherwise , the United States would not have agree to it in the first place . clearly , language such as " surrender " be inflammatory and inappropriate . conservative Members of this House wax lyrical and make a song and dance about national security . will my hon . friend remind they that on their watch , our armed force be hollow out , with the Army reach its small size since the napoleonic war , and spending never once reach 2 . 5 % ? be it not true that Labour be the party of strong defence and strong national security ? my hon . friend be right . whether it be in the ambitious agenda for national security and defence set out in the strategic defence review , in the unity and leadership we show at the NATO summit last week , or in secure our crucial national security basis , include Diego Garcia , this Government be lead from the front when it come to national security . quite frankly , the conservative party be show some brass neck after hollow out our armed force , leave this deal undo and so many other thing . I simply do not understand it , Mr . Speaker . I simply ask the Minister the same question that I ask when he first come to the House on this matter . in relation to the cost consequence of this deal , he know that the lion ' s share of the interest lie with the military base on Diego Garcia . therefore , what contribution be the United States make to the very significant cost of compensate the mauritian people ? the United States make significant and crucial contribution to the operation from Diego Garcia . they be of a quantum much great than the cost that we will pay in relation to the base under this deal . the benefit to the United Kingdom , the United States and our ally be priceless , and this Government will not scrimp on our national security . the cost of this deal be equivalent to a quarter of 1 % of our defence budget , and that be in the context of a Government who have make the high sustained increase in defence spending since the cold war . when the Minister speak to our international friend and ally , what be their message about the work that we be do to restore confidence in national security and our reputation on the global stage ? and what message should the Opposition take from those conversation ? I repeatedly hear a strong vote of confidence in our investment in national security and defence , whether it be from our european partner or from the United States . one just have to look at our leadership at the NATO summit and our ongoing support for Ukraine , which we agree on across the House . my hon . friend ask about the value and the cost . I have set out the cost on a number of occasion , but , as he say , it be just a fraction of 1 % of our annual defence budget . it would pay to run the NHS for just five hour . it also compare favourably with other ally . for example , France pay approximately € 85 million a year for its base in Djibouti . Diego Garcia be 15 time large and the capability be priceless . the Minister rightly say that the base on Diego Garcia be vital for our national security , and we all agree on that . the key issue be what notification have to be give to the Mauritius Government for the base to be use for operational purpose . my hon . friend the Minister of State for the Armed Forces have reply to multiple question on this topic , as have I . indeed , I answer these question in the due scrutiny that I receive the other day . we do not have to provide notification in advance . the treaty refer to " expeditiously " inform after the event , and that be absolutely the normal course of business . I be clear that the operation and the operational autonomy of this base be secure under this deal . it be amazing that we be to give up an important security base without it be necessary to do so , that we be to pay billion to a Government that will allow they to make tax cut while we impose tax burden on our own country , and that the Minister stand here today at the Dispatch Box and say that he do not have time to explain why it be necessary to do so . surely the way to ensure that we have proper scrutiny of this deal be to have a proper debate , or be he afraid that his own back Benchers , once they hear the real story , will find it as difficult to walk through the Lobby for it as they do for the welfare reform Bill yesterday ? I have respect for the right hon . Gentleman , but I totally reject his assertion . there be full support for this deal — and , indeed , full support for it from our ally in the United States and the five Eyes partner . on the point about allege tax cut , at no point in his Budget speech do Prime Minister Ramgoolam say that he be plan to fund income tax reform with the money from this deal . that be very , very clear . indeed , the rationale for this deal , which I have explain multiple time to the House , be that our national security be at risk and the operation of that base could not function as they once do . that be why the opposition start the negotiation and why we have conclude they . after yesterday ' s complete chaos , my constituent be brace themselves for big tax increase in the autumn . how do the Minister think they feel when they see the Mauritian Government crowing about virtually abolish income tax in Mauritius thank to the largesse that he be about to pour on they ? I be genuinely surprised by the comment of the right hon . Gentleman . as a former Defence Minister and someone who have serve , he will know the importance of this base and the need to secure it , and he will know the risk to our operation that be inherent under the previous Government . that be why his government start this process and why we have conclude it . it be also why our cost under the deal be broadly comparable with what France pay for its base in Djibouti , even though our base 15 time large and have immeasurably more capability , as he well know . in the Minister ' s response , he quote the answer from the Defence Secretary to my question , say that he have no choice . but the reason for do this deal be the worry about be take to court — so the Government do have a choice , and that be what my constituent and Opposition Members be so upset about . the Government could have a fight in the court and appeal the decision , yet they have choose not to , and they will not explain why . will the Minister set out what the need be for immediacy and why he and his government will not go to the court for the tribunal he be so worried about to have that fight ? if the case be shut down , Opposition Members would understand , and if it be find that we have a legal responsibility to pay , we would do so , but we do not , and we have not have our day in court as a country . that be the travesty of the deal . I have to correct the hon . member as we have have day in court on this issue . that be one of the reason — [ interruption . ] there be the non - bind judgment in the International Court of Justice . he also forget to mention the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea , the vote in the United Nations and all the other legal process . the fact be , it be our view — indeed , it be the view of the previous Government — that a legally bind judgment would inevitably follow . leave such a key national security asset in that way be not responsible ; no , the responsible thing to do be to secure the base with our ally , and that be exactly what we have do . while China might support this terrible deal , let I tell the Minister that the british people do not support this appalling deal , give away our strategic security asset and pay ten of billion of our taxpayer ' money in the process . our taxpayer will be suffer tax rise for that in order that the Mauritians get tax cut . since the Government be in the mood for u - turn , why do they not take the hint and u - turn on this terrible Chagos deal ? I will not take any lesson from a party that fawn over Vladimir Putin . in the Defence Secretary ' s statement on 22 May , he state with regard to potential legal ruling against we that " the most proximate , and the most potentially serious , be the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea . " — [ Official Report , 22 May 2025 ; Vol . 767 , c . 1291 . ] the US , which operate the base , be not even a signatory to UNCLOS . how would ITLOS have rule a bind legal judgment that we would have recognise ? it be notable that ITLOS have not be mention since that statement ? I be confused — I have mention itlos on a number of occasion , include just a moment ago . the long - stand view of the United Kingdom be that the UK would not have a realistic prospect of successfully defend its legal position on sovereignty in such litigation . even if we choose to ignore bind judgment make against we — we would not do so — their legal effect on third country and international organisation would give rise to real impact to the operation of the base and the delivery of its national security function . international organisation have already adopt decision base on mauritian sovereignty , and other would follow suit follow such litigation . that could affect the electromagnetic spectrum , access to the base by air and by sea , and the ability to patrol the maritime area around the base and to support the base ' s critical national security function . far , the UK would likely face a provisional measure order in a matter of week . the position be clear , and we have explain it . the hon . member ' s previous Government know exactly the same . [ interruption . ] however much he shout and however much he do not like the argument , they be the fact . will the Minister confirm that 40 year ago the most disgusting , cynical injustice be do against the Chagos islander and that it be their resolute campaigning over decade — often alone , with little friendship or support — that eventually bring the whole case to international law and an opinion from the International Court of Justice , which have bring about the situation we be now in ? instead of obsess with the twilight of empire , should opposition party not be think about the injustice do to the Chagos islander ? will the Minister confirm that in the arrangement now be make , the Chagos islander , wherever they be resident , and whatever their opinion be , do have a right of return ? will he give we some idea of what the attitude will be about the right of visit , the right of residence and the right of return to Diego Garcia , where the majority of the Chagos islander have come from ? they be a people who have be badly treat by history and be now be use as pawn by people more interested in defend some strange notion of the twilight of empire than justice for the Chagos islander . the primary purpose of the deal be of course to secure the base on Diego Garcia and the national security of the UK and our ally , but the right hon . member be right to point out the historical situation regard the Chagossians . we have express deep regret for how they be remove from the island in the 1960 and ' 70 ; indeed , that be on the face of the treaty . we recognise the importance of the island to the Chagossians as well as the different view in the community , which he be well acquainted with . we will be restart those visit , include to Diego Garcia . the programme of resettlement to island outside Diego Garcia will be for Mauritius to determine , but we have commit to member on the liberal Democrat Benches in the other place that we will provide further statement on how that will work in due course . there be also the trust fund and the support we provide here in the UK . we be listen to the different chagossian group and try to ensure that their interest be at the heart of the treaty deal as we move forward . the Minister will be aware of a pende judicial review challenge focus on the lack of consultation with the Chagossians . why be there not full and adequate consultation with the chagossian people ? I will not comment on ongoing judicial matter , but as I have set out a number of time the negotiation be necessarily between the UK and Mauritius . however , we recognise the importance of the island to Chagossians , which be why the measure that I just set out have be put in place . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . in answer to the hon . member for St Ives ( Andrew George ) , the Minister seem to imply — to Opposition Members ’ ear anyway — that the United States would be pay , I think he say , a large quantum of the funding for the deal . I think he be refer to the operational cost of the base . may I ask for confirmation that the United States be not contribute at all to the £ 30 billion lease under the settlement ? order . that be not a point of order for the Chair , as the hon . Gentleman will appreciate , but if the Minister wish to respond I will allow he to do so . far to that point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . perhaps it be because of the noise and the shouting , but I be clear . the United States contribute to the operation on Diego Garcia , and rightly so . there be establishment of that in relation to the exchange of note between the UK and the United States . it be not contribute towards the cost of the treaty deal . Heathrow Substation outage : NESO Review with permission , Mr Deputy Speaker , I would like to make a statement on the publication of the report from the National Energy System Operator follow its review into the fire at the North Hyde substation on 20 March . NESO ' s review be commission jointly by the Energy Secretary and Ofgem in the immediate aftermath of the fire , which disrupt power supply to over 70 , 000 customer , include , of course , Heathrow airport , which close operation on 21 March . while power from the grid be restore quickly to customer , there be significant secondary impact to the aviation sector due to the associated closure of Heathrow airport . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Transport make a statement to the House at the time , where she commit that the Government would update the House as soon as the relevant investigation have conclude . that be why I be make this statement before the House on the day that NESO ' s report have be publish . before I update the House on the key finding of the review , I reassure hon . member that the Government be take action in response to the report . we will urgently consider the finding of the review and have commit to publish a Government response that will set out a plan on how the issue identify will be address in order to improve our energy resilience . have review the report , I be deeply concerned — I be sure hon . member will agree — that know risk be not address by National Grid Electricity Transmission , a key operator of our electricity system . NGET ' s own guidance be clear , and base on the elevated moisture sample that NGET take in 2018 , the asset should have remain out of service until mitigating action be put in place , or the asset should have be carefully monitor until it could be replace . NGET fail to take action appropriate to the severity of the risk at North Hyde . that be most likely the cause of the catastrophic fire on 20 March . I speak to NGET this morning and make it clear that the finding be unacceptable and that action must be take to ensure that maintenance work on critical asset be prioritise appropriately . fire suppression system must not be leave inoperable . I be pleased to see that the regulator be take swift action in response to the finding , announce today that it be open an official enforcement investigation into NGET . Ofgem will consider any possible licence condition breach relate to the development and maintenance of National Grid Electricity Transmission ' s electricity system at North Hyde . I speak with Ofgem yesterday to express my support for that investigation and the plan audit of National Grid ' s critical substation asset . that will be essential to understand any other potential risk on the network and ensure that those be be mitigate appropriately . the report also highlight that North Hyde substation , which be build in 1968 , be subject to different design standard than new site that be build during the 1990 . there be not sufficient distance or a physical barrier between two transformer at North Hyde , which allow the fire to spread . it be essential that we consider the potential risk create by differ design and standard across the electricity network , particularly as we move towards clean power 2030 . that will be a key focus of the Government ' s response . my Department and Ofgem will hold NGET to account for its role in the incident at North Hyde , but the extent of the impact of the incident on Heathrow operation must also come into focus . Heathrow Airport Ltd commission its own independent review , the Kelly review , which be publish on 28 May and investigate the circumstance that lead to the airport cease operation for most of 21 March . the review highlight several recommendation to far improve the resilience of the airport ' s internal electricity network . those align with NESO ' s finding that there be option to improve Heathrow ' s own power resilience , which be the responsibility of Heathrow and not National Grid , and reduce the risk of further disruption at this scale . heathrow benefit from three separate supply point to the electricity network . it be rare for any site to have such a resilient connection to the network . as no energy system can ever be free from disruption , this be an opportunity for Heathrow to consider invest in its internal electrical distribution network to take advantage of those multiple supply point . I welcome the continue effective collaboration between Heathrow and energy operator as part of the review . my Department and the Department for Transport will work to ensure that that collaboration continue across those critical sector . although such incident be rare and the UK have a robust and resilient system , there be always wide lesson to be learn . the majority of recommendation make by NESO in its report suggest potential improvement that could be consider by operator across the energy sector . in collaboration with NESO , Ofgem and other industry partner , my Department will ensure the delivery and implementation of those energy recommendation . however , the report finding be also applicable to wide Government policy on resilience , both in the energy sector and across other critical national infrastructure sector . ensure the protection and resilience of critical national infrastructure continue to be a key priority for Government , with action already be take . the Government ' s recently publish 10 - year infrastructure strategy commit to strengthen resilience standard across critical national infrastructure . far , the Cabinet Office will imminently publish the UK Government resilience action plan , which will articulate Government ' s new strategic approach to resilience and be the outcome of the resilience review announce by the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster in this place last year . my Department be already take step to enhance our current approach to the designation of critical national infrastructure in the energy sector . we recently introduce specific licence condition that give NESO responsibility for datum gathering and technical analysis to independently inform the Government ' s decision on the designation of CNI , ensure our most critical infrastructure in the energy sector be always as resilient as possible . we will work with the Cabinet Office and wide Government to develop a full response to the North Hyde report and set out how we will tackle some of the cross - sector resilience challenge highlight , particularly give the importance of the energy sector for the continued operation of so much of our critical national infrastructure . I want to restate that Great Britain continue to have a resilient energy network . even though incident such as this be rare , it be essential that we learn the lesson to maintain and , where possible , improve our resilience . the Government response will set out our plan for how we will continue to do so . I thank NESO for carry out such a comprehensive review over the past three month . the report show the value of learn from past emergency such as this . NESO ' s newly establish function in energy resilience will enable Government , the energy industry and the regulator to truly understand whole energy system risk and mitigation , proactively ensure that Great Britain continue to have a reliable energy supply , which be critical to the whole of society . I commend this statement to the House . before I call the shadow Secretary of State , may I take this opportunity to welcome she back to her place in the House ? thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I feel old , wise and significantly more sleep - deprive . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . I also thank NESO for its rapid work . the report be clear that there have be serious failing by National Grid to fix an issue that it know about for seven year . the Minister be right ; that be unacceptable . what be most important , though , be what happen now . I have some question for the Minister . first , who at National Grid make the decision to defer critical maintenance of the transformer in 2022 ? he say that he would hold they accountable , so how will he do that ? he speak about breach licence condition . what be the penalty for do that and what accountability mechanism will he use ? secondly , the report say that the North Hyde site do not meet modern standard on physical barrier between transformer . can the Minister confirm he have ask National Grid to review substation with transformer build before the current standard be put in place ? thirdly , what step will he take to look at the resilience of our energy system , particularly in the light of the heighten geopolitical risk that we all face ? the key message that we should take from the report on the Heathrow blackout be the importance of critical national infrastructure to our energy security and our national security . in that regard , it be the Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change who be play with fire . a week after the blackout hit Heathrow , Spain and Portugal give we a stark warning of what happen when country fail to protect their energy security : public transport down , payment system down and million of people unable to cook , travel or contact their family . tragically , people lose their life . in the case of North Hyde , the blackout affect school , the London Underground , Hillingdon hospital and 70 , 000 customer , some of whom have to move out of their home . that be the price we pay when we do not take energy security seriously . it be not a nice - to - have — energy be a basic need — and yet this Government be put our energy at risk . the national security strategy that the Government publish just last week include 12 mention of climate but not a single mention of the risk that China pose to our energy system . last year , our intelligence service warn that chinese state - sponsor hacker be work to disrupt and destroy critical infrastructure in the event of conflict , and yet the Secretary of State be rush to make Britain dependent on chinese solar panel , chinese rare earth and chinese battery in just five year ' time . we have just see China limit the export of critical mineral in its trade war with the US . we have see kill switch find in chinese inverter . the US intelligence service have warn we about the risk of surveillance device in chinese wind turbine . I first write to the Secretary of State eight month ago , ask he to publish an assessment of what his target mean for our reliance on chinese import . he have not even bother to reply . if the Secretary of State want to hand over the key of our energy supply to the Chinese Communist party , he should come to this House and explain why . we be lucky enough in this country to be surround by our own gas field , but the Secretary of State do not care . this be a man who would rather import gas from Norway , from the very same field in the North sea that he be ban Britain from use ; who be pour concrete down our gas well ; and who be block off any contingency plan that Britain might need in a crisis . I do not say this lightly , but this be a man who be put our national security at risk . today we be talk about the first transformer fire in a decade in this country and he do not even bother to turn up . that be the problem . the Secretary of State might prefer to be in Brazil , Baku , Beijing or wherever he be today , but he should be here to explain himself , because as the former head of MI6 say , he be pursue an energy policy that be " completely crazy " when it come to national security . I want clean energy from nuclear , from small modular reactor and from the next generation of british innovation , but first and foremost I want energy that keep the light on and keep bill down . this government be go to leave we completely reliant on foreign import : from China , from Norway , from Qatar — from anywhere as long as it be not Britain . NESO and Ofgem will do their work , but the Minister must do his work too . alongside the work of the North Hyde report , can he confirm that he will come back and update the House on his plan to protect the energy resilience of this country ? I be go to start — and I will , regardless of the rest of that speech — by warmly welcome the right hon . Lady back to her place as the shadow Secretary of State . I will miss spar with my scottish colleague , the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) , although I be sure we will still have opportunity to do so . the right hon . Lady might come to miss the lack of sleep at home compare with the noise in this place , but she be very welcome back . she have obviously take the last few month to write a wrap - up speech on a whole range of issue , and I be glad to give she the opportunity to pontificate here on many of those thing , but let I stick to the question that relate to the statement that I have deliver to the House today . the right hon . Lady ask about the role that National Grid have play . Ofgem have open an enforcement investigation into this incident to get to the bottom of exactly what National Grid have or have not do , and whether there be possible breach of licence . that investigation should now take its course . there be clearly serious question to answer , and that be exactly the point that I put to National Grid today . I have ask for an immediate response on what action it be take and for assurance that there be no further maintenance backlog that it have not act on , and I expect that by the end of this week . Ofgem have also instruct a wide audit of maintenance work across the energy system , which will identify if there be any similar issue . on the point about be hold accountable , clearly I be go to wait for the outcome of Ofgem ' s investigation . it be the responsibility of Ofgem as the regulator to determine whether National Grid be in breach of any of its licence condition and what the appropriate action should be if it be . I will wait for those finding to come through . the right hon . Lady raise an important point about the physical barrier . clearly there be difference because the time at which some of our infrastructure be build and the different standard that be in place at different time . we need to make a wide review to see what be actually possible with some of this infrastructure ; it be not always possible to build to the standard we now expect , but everything that be be build now be be build to the high standard . I want the same assurance that she have call for : to know that anything that be build previously be safe . on the wide resilience question , I be not go to get into a back - and - forward on the frankly quite ludicrous claim that the right hon . Lady make . I hope this be not an indication of the tone we can expect in the year ahead , because there be some difficult decision for we all to wrestle with . there be the really important question about deliver our energy security in , as she say , an increasingly uncertain world . we be sprint towards clean power to remove the volatility of fossil fuel from our system . she oppose all of that investment . there be also a critical role to play in upgrade the network infrastructure across the country , which her party also oppose . there be some really search question for the Conservatives — who be , of course , in charge of this infrastructure for 14 year — about their role and what part they want to play . it be easy to shout from the sideline with accusation . it be far more useful and important for a party that be in government for 14 year and be now the official Opposition to come up with some credible question about how we deliver the energy system of the future . we be go to get on with deliver it . I call the Chair of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee . it beggar belief that no action be take after the risk be identify in 2018 at the North Hyde substation . the NESO report highlight a lack of information - sharing internally at National Grid and externally between organisation . it draw attention to the energy company not know that Heathrow have a 10 to 12 - hour arrangement for switch supply , and that National Grid do not appear to know that Heathrow be a customer of the substation . it be a matter of immense luck that the explosion and fire take place at 11 o ' clock at night and that no one be present ; otherwise , this would have be a very different discussion , with people have die . the Minister highlight the unacceptable lack of action by National Grid . will he ensure proper oversight and information share internally at National Grid and externally between organisation , so that we have safety and resilience in our national energy system , where it apply to critical national infrastructure and beyond ? first , on the point about join up , my hon . friend be absolutely right . the response that I have see from National Grid identify that as one of the point it will take away . it will look at information sharing and join up the datum in various system , and at how to ensure that be follow through on . it be important to say that there be also learn , not just for National Grid but across the energy system , through look at what other transmission owner do and at what the Government do around share information where we can . there be a lot of learning and a lot of recommendation will be take forward . on the question of Heathrow , much be identify in the Kelly review , which look specifically at these operation . on the question of whether there be a single point of failure at Heathrow , the airport be one of the big consumer of electricity in the country and one of our most important piece of critical national infrastructure . it be important that those at Heathrow reflect on this report and take some lesson from it . the report have show — this be a lesson for everyone — the importance of invest in electricity resilience and prepare for the bad , even if we think there be a low chance of the bad actually happen . I completely agree with my hon . friend ' s final point : it be in all our interest to spend time , effort and investment in make sure that our energy system continue to be as resilient as possible . I call the Liberal Democrat Front - Bench spokesman . this report be an utterly damn assessment of our national resilience , this time through decay but also through a lack of readiness as the climate crisis change the dynamic , with old equipment operate at high temperature just as the load for climate control and air conditioning be at their peak . the british people will rightly be alarmed that the problem that cause this substation failure be know as long ago as 2018 , but there be a much wide point here . beyond the technicality of this failure , the resilience of critical national infrastructure have be neglect for far too long . as an engineer , I come to this place for precisely this reason : we be too short - termist and too narrow in our vision . we can not possibly expect to remain a world leader in infrastructure if we can not future - proof and seriously invest in the resilience of our asset . building and maintain infrastructure might not get pulse race . there be no ribbon to cut when something just continue to operate efficiently , but that long - termism be an ideology that we should all get behind if we be serious about Britain ' s future . the report outline the many miss opportunity to fix the issue at the substation , and we will all have to look seriously into Ofgem ' s consequential investigation into National Grid once it be publish . this be not just about grid resilience , though . this time it be a fire cause by a fault , but next time it might be a deliberate cyber - attack or an act of terrorism , which could have a more disastrous impact . we must look beyond the short term , with a strategic and long - term plan to join up national infrastructure and make it safe and reliable for all . the Government must bring about a strategy and act quickly to review the resilience of all similar asset , include every UK airport — they be all critical to our national economy and our society . with that in mind , can the Minister confirm whether an assessment have be make of the likelihood of a repeat of this incident , at Heathrow and at all other piece of critical national infrastructure ? also , be the Government take this opportunity to finally pick up the National Infrastructure Commission report from 2020 and 2023 , which be ignore by the previous Government , and the report from 2024 , which be not implement quickly enough , and to implement standard and framework for resilience in key sector such as aviation , telecom , water and energy , which will future - proof our age infrastructure to make it reliable and safe ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to broaden this beyond the electricity system and North Hyde to take in wide question around critical national infrastructure . he be also right about invest in the future . I always think that grid and network set the heart race a little fast , but that be just I . this be important , and this Government be invest in this infrastructure ; just this week Ofgem announce record investment in it . I hope , give the importance of this statement , that member on all side of the House will recognise the importance of that investment . on the point around wide resilience , the Cabinet Office be lead on try to bring together what I think it be fair to say have be too fragmented a landscape in resilience across Government . my Department be responsible for a number of key risk in the national risk register . it be right that the lead Departments have expertise in certain area , but if that information be not share coherently across Government , we increase the chance of not get the answer right . a lot of work be be do in that regard . we be also look at how we share datum across all sector of critical national infrastructure within Government . we will say more about that in the resilience action plan , which the Cabinet Office be work on at the moment . of course , the 10 - year infrastructure strategy be also about how we will invest for the long term in the infrastructure that keep our country run . I call the Chair of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee . speak as a chartered electrical engineer and as the Chair of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee , I be absolutely amazed that such an important and large part of our critical national infrastructure in the National Grid be not properly maintain for seven year and that heathrow — the busy airport in the world — have a single point of failure . the Minister have outline some of the process and procedure that will follow , but will he say how he intend to improve the standard of engineering maintenance culture and excellence in our critical national infrastructure , which have clearly be allow to fall significantly under successive conservative government ? first , it be important to say that Heathrow have multiple route into its electricity network — three in fact — which be unique . this report and the process identify in the Kelly review will give Heathrow Airport Ltd pause for thought on what it need to do on how its network be configure and how it can adapt in such situation . of course , this be an incredibly rare circumstance , but the whole point of resilience planning be to plan for eventuality that we think be extremely unlikely to happen but that would have a significant impact if they do . heathrow closing be clearly one such circumstance . secondly , my hon . friend be right to highlight standard and system . I want to be careful not to prejudge the review that Ofgem have announce , because there be something to be say about standard change over time . maintenance backlog obviously then have to be meet , and if the issue be that maintenance that should have be carry out have not be , that be clearly an issue we will take forward . but if it be just that piece of infrastructure be subject to standard that have change over time , we have a wide question of how we can adapt some of that infrastructure for future standard . we will look at all those point . I repeat to the House that our electricity system be incredibly robust in its resilience . we need to do everything possible to make it even more robust , so that such instance do not have quite so significant an impact as this one do . may I follow up on that and ask the Minister whether he will undertake to have a full , frank and open discussion with the relevant directorate within his Department about what it have learn from this disaster ? in particular , what exercise , tabletop or virtual , must be undertake to practise resilience in the event of future such failure ? my right hon . friend the Member for East Surrey ( Claire Coutinho ) be right to warn about the increase fragility of energy security in this country . there be plenty of informed opinion that support that view . I have speak to colleague across the Department on these question . they be rightly constantly look at how we review our process . importantly , they be also work outside of Government and try to break down some of the silos , so we be co - ordinating with different part of Government that have different responsibility . but the right hon . member be right , and we will constantly push to do more of that . the question of exercise be important . we have a really significant exercise under the previous Government , which look at the Government ' s response to a significant power outage . we be put in place many of the recommendation from that exercise , which be important to take forward , but more exercise be useful . I would slightly separate the response from the infrastructure itself fail , which be what we need to investigate quickly . the Kelly review set out that Heathrow ' s response to the incident be in line with its response plan . although the outcome be clearly not what any of we would have want , it go to a wide question about the infrastructure at Heathrow , not so much the actual plan put in place when the incident do occur . those be two slightly different thing , but they be both extremely important . I , too , thank the Minister for make this statement , and NESO for this damn report . Heathrow Airport Ltd ' s power set - up internally virtually guarantee hour of disruption in a scenario like this . on 21 March , that mean over a quarter of a million passenger be affect ; airline lose significant revenue , for which they will not be compensate ; and countless time - critical freight load be also affect . yet in Spain and Portugal , airport do not close when those country have full power outage . by any definition , surely Heathrow airport count as critical national infrastructure as it undeniably require operational continuity . I note that the Minister confirm the airport ' s responsibility for its own power resilience , but do the Government have a role in ensure that end - to - end power supply to critical national infrastructure be robust and that risk like power outage be manage adequately ? I thank my hon . friend for the question and for her thank to NESO , which have do a comprehensive job on this report in a fairly short space of time . there be lesson to be learn for Heathrow , and it will be learn those lesson . I be in communication with the Transport Secretary , who of course have immediate responsibility for Heathrow as a piece of critical national transport infrastructure . it be worth say that its back - up generator do operate in the way they be suppose to , but Heathrow be a huge piece of infrastructure , and it be not intend that those back - up process would continue to run normal operation in a huge airport beyond the immediate situation of be able to land plane safely and ensure other critical system within the airport . the question Heathrow have to answer be on have three point of electricity generation come into the airport . it clearly need to look at the way the network be configure and take forward the wide question of its resilience and ability to adapt to such situation . the Government have an incredibly important role , as my hon . friend rightly say , and we will do all we can to ensure that National Grid be do its bit , that the distribution operator be do what it need to do , and that Heathrow Airport Ltd be also meet the expectation that we would expect from our most important piece of transport infrastructure . I call the SNP spokesperson . the report by NESO have clearly uncover serious structural failing at National Grid , but let we not forget that the Government ' s response to the outage be severely want as well . on the Monday follow the outage , the Transport Secretary confirm that she be rely on the content of a three - day - old conversation with Heathrow , with no assessment from the Government and no conversation with National Grid . can the Secretary of State assure the House that sufficient lesson be be learn in Government to ensure that , when the power supply to critical national infrastructure be affect in the future , the Government be not leave without answer again ? additionally , member will understand the phrase " Quis custodiet ipsos custode ? " , mean " who guard the guard ? " why do it take such a serious outage for the National Grid to be audit like this ? surely well oversight may have identify the shockingly poor risk management . since I do not realise in my statement early this week that the hon . Gentleman be now the SNP ' s energy spokesperson , I welcome he to his place — I hope he will bring the same customary sunshine that his predecessor in the role do to our deliberation in this place . on the incident itself , clearly there be lesson to be learn from the way the energy infrastructure work on 20 and 21 March , and for Heathrow on the configuration of its internal network and how that work . the incident itself be clearly one we want to avoid at all cost , but actually the process be carry out safely , passenger be inform and the disruption be keep to an absolute minimum , but if an airport such as Heathrow close , there will be disruption . I be not sure that I take the hon . Gentleman ' s criticism of the handling of the incident . he be right on the broad point about how we ensure we be regularly audit the process of maintenance work go forward . the three transmission owner in the UK have a responsibility for do that , and that be regulate by Ofgem , which regularly check on this . the second part of Ofgem ' s review announce today will look specifically at whether those maintenance backlog and any other long - stand issue have be resolve , and look at the lesson we can learn on ensure that those process actually happen and that we do not just have thing sit on a list but not actually deliver . the substation be locate in my constituency and I be there on the day the incident happen . it be a massive fire and 200 of my constituent be evacuate from their home during the night , and there be smoke flow down the street . it could have be a much big disaster have it not be for the courageous firefighter who go on to the site , the help they get from the council , the back - up service and the NHS . I place on record the House ' s congratulation to they and our admiration for what they do . my constituent want to be reassure , but the report demonstrate a catalogue of failure . the problem be identify in 2018 — we be now seven year on . I welcome the right hon . member for East Surrey ( Claire Coutinho ) back to her place , but sleep deprivation can affect the memory : her party be in Government for most of that period . I be worried that site like this could be easily target by terrorist activity , so we need a process of reassurance . the recommendation set out in the review , about what we do from here to ensure resilience , have to take into account that the Government have a role in drive through the programme . we have to recognise that we can not rely on some of the other agency without a real government thrust of leadership , but also secure accountability , because I do not want other area to experience what we experience that night . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his remark and for the way he make they . he be absolutely right to recognise the heroic role that our emergency service play on the night — I be sorry that I do not say that at the start of my statement — as well as the engineer , who work in incredibly hard in difficult circumstance in the hour that follow the fire to try to get service reconnecte as quickly as possible . there be very serious question to answer , and I hope that come through in my statement — it certainly come through in the conversation I have with National Grid early . we be seek urgent assurance that the work that should have be do be be do , and that there be no other similar situation . Ofgem be take the matter seriously , with two review , one into National Grid and the other into the wide energy system , to see if there be any further lesson to learn . however , the right hon . Gentleman be right and I completely agree with his point that the Government need to be front - footed and take a leadership role in drive the work forward : we can not leave it to individual company to mark their own homework . we be do that partly by bring together our resilience work across Government , and I will soon be chair a new group that bring together everyone who have responsibility for critical national infrastructure in our energy system , to ensure that energy security , cyber - security and other threat to our infrastructure be take seriously , so that action be take at the high level of Government to ensure that we do not have a repeat of the incident in future . the substation by Heathrow be probably one of the most important in the country , yet this damn report say that there be a " catastrophic failure " of maintenance . give that National Grid also fail to recognise how close we come to a national blackout early this year , we have to ask : be National Grid grossly negligent and do the Minister still have full confidence in its management ? the hon . Gentleman may be confuse two thing . the National Energy System Operator be no long part of National Grid , as it be make into a publicly own company by the previous Government , which be introduce by we when we come into Government . so the National Energy System Operator be responsible for manage the energy system and it be different from National Grid , which be a private company that operate the electricity network in England , so those two organisation be slightly different . of course , he be right to highlight the scale of the failure . that be why I have give a statement today and why a number of serious action be be take , which will be follow up in a serious way . we do not come close to a blackout early this year . it be important to repeat that , because there be a lot of misinformation about a particular set of statistic that be misunderstood by some people . we have never come close to that and we have never have a national power outage in our history . the aim of all the work that we do be to build as safe and resilient an electricity system as we can , so that when circumstance like this happen — because fire and accident do happen — we will have do everything that we could have do to have mitigation in place . when such a fault be down to a failure of maintenance , we must ensure that be take account of and never happen again . like any serious incident , this one have multiple cause , both operational and relate to design . I urge the Minister to ensure that the lesson learn be apply not only to electricity transmission and distribution site , but to energy storage site , for which we have an absence of standard . he rightly mention the need for redundancy and flexibility in our electricity system , and the need to avoid have single point of failure . that apply well to large piece of essential infrastructure , but be hard with our distribute critical infrastructure , for example around telecommunication , so we need diversity in our energy system as a whole . do he agree that in our energy system , we need widespread availability from multiple part of the energy sector , with electricity be back up by , for example , hydrogen and ammonia ? my hon . friend always remind I how much he know about many of these issue ; it be hugely welcome . he be right : there be wide lesson to be learn across the system , and not just for large critical national infrastructure . as he say , we have a grid that have many more power station , of different form , than we have ever have in the past . there be also lesson to be learn for storage , which be rightly become increasingly important for our energy mix . on his wide point about telecom , in the wake of the storm early this year , we take a number of action to make our electricity system more resilient . our use of telecommunication equipment in this country be change . very few people now have access to traditional copper wire phone , so when telecom equipment go down , there be an immediate significant impact on people ' s life . I recently meet the Minister for Data Protection and Telecoms in the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology to discuss this issue . we will work with Ofcom and the operator to ensure that the telecom infrastructure be as resilient as it can be . point of order on a point of order , Mr Dirprwy Lefarydd . Privy Counsellors can request and receive confidential briefing on urgent matter , and that make it possible for they to come to a fully inform decision on matter of national security . that be particularly pertinent for today ' s motion on the proscription of Palestine Action . could you advise I on how I be to make an informed decision when my request for a Privy Council briefing on Palestine Action be refuse this week ? I thank the right hon . Lady for give I notice of her point of order . she will understand that this be not a matter for the Chair , but she have put an important concern on the record . I trust that member on the Treasury Bench will have take notice of it . far to that point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . can you consult the Speaker ' s Office on whether , before the start of the debate on the statutory instrument on the prevention of terrorism , anything can be do to ensure that the three organisation list can be vote on separately ? that would be the proper way for member of the House to express their view . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his point of order . I be afraid that his request be simply , in procedural term , not possible . the Chair be not responsible for the forming of such motion . the motion will be put to the House as it be on the Order Paper . Public Authority ( accountability ) motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to set a requirement on public institution , public servant and official and on those carry out function on their behalf to act in the public interest and with candour and frankness ; to define the public law duty on they to assist court , official inquiry and investigation ; to enable victim to enforce such duty ; to create offence for the breach of certain duty ; to provide funding for victim and their relative in certain proceeding before the court and at official inquiry and investigation ; and for connected purpose . on 15 April 1989 , I enter Hillsborough stadium , an innocent 16 - year - old full of hope and excitement , to watch my beloved Liverpool football club in the FA cup semi - final . little do I , or anybody else there that day , know that we be walk into a national disaster that would leave 97 man , woman and child dead , hundred more injured , and countless family devastate for generation . what unfold that day be not a tragic accident . it be a disaster cause by police failure and compound by one of the most shameful state cover - up this country have ever see . like so many other , I be just a working - class lad who happen to be there , but like so many other , I be drag into a decade - long web of establishment denial , distortion and deceit . that day shape I and the course of my life , and it be the reason I stand here today . we have all witness the bravery , determination and anguish of the Hillsborough family and survivor , who be fight tirelessly for truth and justice in the face of repeat state obstruction . we never seek revenge or ask for special treatment ; we just want what anyone would want in our shoe — the truth about what happen to our love one and a fair chance at justice . instead , we be meet with wall of silence , decade of lie and a legal system stack against we . I be so honoured that some of those tireless campaigner and giant of justice be in the House today , watch as we fight once again to end the injustice they have endure for more than three decade . Police officer know who be responsible and where accountability lie , yet lie after lie be tell . at inquest and inquiry and in medium briefing , supporter be blame for the death of their fellow fan . time and again , false narrative be repeat and legitimise by those in power , and we will never , ever forget or forgive the disgraceful headline in the Sun . while the family and survivor scrape together fund for legal representation , those responsible be shield by some of the fine legal mind in the country , insultingly pay for by the state . I remember vividly my dad , who be seriously injure that day , fundraise in the Breck , our local pub near Anfield , for the Hillsborough Justice Campaign . that grassroots organisation be power by ordinary people , not the Treasury , and the contrast could not be starker . I be very proud that he be here today . grieve family fight for justice while the institution responsible be protect at every turn by a system design to shield itself . it be not a broken system ; it be a system work exactly as it be design to — a system in which the establishment protect its own , and in which ordinary people , like my dad and thousand of other , be treat as an inconvenience . through " the real truth " legacy project , we teach schoolchildren about Hillsborough and other example of state injustice , because this history must not be bury ; it must be understand . crucially , it must never be repeat . when I speak to student about the fight for truth , I compare it to somebody who be blindfold , and who have their hand tie behind their back , have to go toe to toe with Tyson Fury . that be what those family face , and still face to this day . this be not just about Hillsborough , although the legislation bear its name . for decade , we have see the same institutional playbook use time and again — the cover - up , the smear , the hostile briefing , and the dragging out of justice until people simply give up or pass away . we have see Grenfell , Manchester arena , the Post Office Horizon scandal , infect blood , the " Truth about Zane " campaign , covid - 19 , nuclear test veteran and so many more . each time , we see the same weary expression on the face of the devastated family , and the same exhaustion etch on to the face of those battle a system design to protect itself . each time it happen , a little more faith in this country ' s soul be lose . today we have the power to change that . as the parliamentary lead for the Hillsborough Law now campaign , I be proud to reintroduce this legislation , the Public Authority ( accountability ) Bill . I be proud but deeply disappointed , because this Bill should already be in law . in 2022 , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Holborn and St Pancras ( Keir Starmer ) stand before the people of Liverpool at the Labour party conference and pledge that " one of my first act as Prime Minister will be to put the Hillsborough Law onto the statute book . " he say the same again as Prime Minister in September 2024 , and mention not a Hillsborough law , but the Hillsborough law . that pledge fill our heart with hope , and promise an end to the culture of denial and delay , and the decade of deceit . make no mistake : this Bill be the Hillsborough law — the one draft by Pete Weatherby KC and Elkan Abrahamson . it be the one originally introduce by Andy Burnham in 2017 and shape by the family , for the family . it include a statutory duty of candour on public authority , enforceable with criminal sanction . it level the play field so that family be no long the underdog in the courtroom . it create genuine accountability mechanism , so that state cover - up be much hard to conceal and the truth be much hard to bury . this Bill be for the 97 , but also for the victim of every other state failure , and for every family who might in future face the nightmare of be leave alone to fight for truth and justice . despite the promise in 2022 , in March this year the Government bring forward a water - down version — a replacement Bill , not the Hillsborough law that the Prime Minister promise . they present it to the legal expert who write the original Bill , and those expert say unequivocally that it fall far short , because it have no legally bind duty of candour , no provision for equal legal funding during inquest and inquiry , and loophole allow public body to avoid disclosure . worse still , that draft follow a family listening day , organise by the brilliant organisation Inquest , at which Ministers hear directly from the family of the bereaved , include Hillsborough family . those family make their view crystal clear , and their expectation be even clear . the result report be not ambiguous — it be entitle " all or nothing " — yet the Government return with a hollow offering that deliver nothing of what be promise . follow widespread outrage from campaigner , that draft Bill be thankfully and rightly shelve , but we understand that a new replacement Bill , still without the key provision of the Hillsborough law , could be imminent . this time , it will not be share with the family or campaigner in advance . what do that say about the lesson learn ? the resistance to the Hillsborough law be root not in legal complexity , but self - preservation . it be be lead by those with the most to lose : senior official and institution who fear scrutiny more than they value accountability . let I be absolutely crystal clear : this law will not weaken public institution , but strengthen they . it will protect the vast majority of decent , hard - work public servant who , if pressure to conceal the truth , will finally have the law on their side . it will deliver justice more swiftly and affordably , reduce the need for draw - out and expensive inquiry and inquest that cost the public purse hundred of million of pound . this legislation be right here . it be write , ready and require no redrafting and no more stalling . what it require be political will . just last week , 166 mp and Lords from across these Houses sign a letter urge the Prime Minister to honour his pledge . the support span party , region and generation , and that cross - party unity reflect the will of the public . they do not want another whitewash or betrayal ; they want integrity and action . let I close with this . the law can not bring back the 97 , erase the decade of pain or undo the trauma inflict by callous lie and institutional neglect , but it can stop this ever happen again . it can give truth , fight injustice and restore some of the faith lose not just in the system , but in the very idea of justice . I say loud and clear to the Prime Minister : do not let this moment slip away . do not let your promise make in Liverpool be break in Westminster . let we honour the 97 and so many other with not just remembrance , but change . I call on the Government to back this Bill — the real Hillsborough law — and I commend it to the House . question put and agree to . order , that Ian Byrne , Kim Johnson , Paula Barker , Peter Dowd , Derek Twigg , Sorcha Eastwood , Si â n Berry , Liz Saville Roberts , Jeremy Corbyn , Stephen Flynn , Tom Morrison and Richard Burgon present the Bill . Ian Byrne accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 11 July , and to be print ( Bill 280 ) . Armed Forces Commissioner Bill Consideration of Lords message Clause 1 - Armed Forces Commissioner I beg to move , that this House insist on Commons amendment 2A , to which the Lords have disagree , and disagree with the Lords in Lords amendment 2B and 2C propose in lieu of that amendment . before I start , I place on record my thank to all those right hon . and hon . member who support Armed Forces Day event at the weekend across the length and breadth of our country . the Secretary of State have the privilege of attend the national event in Cleethorpes , and I spend time with our armed force community on Plymouth Hoe to see the fantastic turnout not just of armed force personnel but of their family , veteran , and the charity and organisation that support everyone who serve and have serve . meeting and hearing from service personnel and their family at this important moment of recognition of our armed force be a great honour , and provide a moment of reflection for everyone in this House on the great service that those in the military provide to the nation . I be disappointed that the Armed Forces Commissioner Bill have return to this House . the last time we be here , a full month ago , I explain that the Bill already deliver what the other House have insert . I be therefore disappointed that the amendment in the name of Baroness Goldie seek to replace the Government amendment with other amendment , which I be afraid be deeply flawed . I will explain why . to be absolutely clear , we be all in agreement about the intention behind the Lords amendment . defence personnel must feel empower and protect in come forward with their concern , and I absolutely agree that we need to address and eliminate toxic behaviour and culture in our armed force . this Government be commit to do exactly that , which be the whole reason we be shine a light on the welfare matter of our people and legislate for an independent champion in the form of the Armed Forces Commissioner . I commend the Minister and the Government for bring this Bill forward , and I understand the issue — I speak to the Minister just beforehand . lord amendment 2 deal with whistleblower and protection for family member , which be necessary . I have a complaint ready to hand to the Minister that be facilitate by family member watch the effect on their love one . do the Minister agree that it be right and proper that love one have a mechanism for ensure the right thing be do by those who be legitimately whistleblowe ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention , and I agree with he . it be precisely for that reason that the Government be insist on our amendment and not accept the Opposition amendment make in the other place , because that amendment do not include family member . I agree that include love one — family member , for the purpose of the wording of the Bill — within the remit of the Armed Forces Commissioner be an important new step in provide not just member in uniform , but their immediate family member as define in the secondary legislation that will accompany the Bill , with the opportunity to raise a general service welfare matter . I agree that there be a lot more we can debate on these matter , and there will be an opportunity to do so during the passage of the next armed force Bill . however , I say to all member that I be concerned that go round again on this matter only hold up delivery of a key element that will be use to tackle the very issue this amendment seek to address . namely , it hold up the establishment of an Armed Forces Commissioner , which be a key manifesto commitment for defence . the long this Bill be prevent from become law , the great the disservice we do to our armed force and their family . I sincerely hope that today we can send a united message from this House that we do not wish to delay this vital legislation any far . like everyone else in this House , I be incredibly proud of our armed force , and particularly of our relationship with they in St Helens . just yesterday , the Duke of Lancaster ' s regiment parade through St Helens town centre after be award the freedom of the borough — we be so incredibly proud . do the Minister agree that we just need to get on with this now , so that we can show a united front and speak with one voice in support of our armed force , and give they the support they need ? I thank my hon . friend for place on the record the military event in his constituency . it be so important that we recognise the link and tie that so many of our military unit have with the locality from which they recruit , where they be base and where they serve . I agree with his broad point ; the time be right for we to pass this Bill , get it into law , and allow we to move to a situation in which we have an Armed Forces Commissioner able to deal with the issue raise by our people and their family member . the Government take on board the important debate in both Houses and propose amendment 2A , to which this House previously agree . that amendment honour the spirit of the noble Baroness ' s amendment in the other place and actually go far than her proposal , deliver concrete legal protection that be not include in the amendment that be back before we today . we be seek to reinsert that well amendment , which be make early in the process and in good faith , follow discussion and co - operation with the Opposition in the other place . give the strong cross - party support for the Bill and clear argument in favour of the amendment in lieu , we have be hope that that would enable we to conclude proceeding . the Government amendment will establish genuine protection for people wish to raise a concern anonymously , and will build trust and confidence among our armed force and their family in a way we can not envisage will be achieve by the propose amendment that be before we today . I be very happy to serve on the Committee for the Armed Forces Commissioner Bill while it be proceed through this place . as the Minister know , there be a large amount of consensus about the need for that process to conclude as quickly as possible , and I recently write an article with my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) about the need to give our armed force the reassurance that this Government be take action to support they and their family . do the Minister agree that it really be time to get on with this ? we have a consensus in this House that the Armed Forces Commissioner should be able to begin work as quickly as possible . I thank my hon . friend for his intervention , and for the work he have be undertake with my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) . the Armed Forces Commissioner be a key manifesto promise make at the general election , and make with the deliberate intent of provide an independent voice — an independent champion for those people who serve . we know that for many of our people some of the service welfare matter be not good enough , include childcare and the poor state of military accommodation . the ability of the commissioner to raise those issue , investigate they and use the additional new power not currently available to the Service Complaints Ombudsman be a substantial step forward for our people and a key plank of renew the contract between the nation and those who serve . I agree with my hon . friend that I would like to see that get into law . briefly , I will remind the House of the protection currently afford to the armed force ; one thing I have be make aware of during these debate and discussion be that it be worth repeat some of those , so that there can be no doubt about they . all defence personnel be protect in relation to whistleblowe under exist defence policy , which enable individual to raise and resolve issue in a way that be protect and secure and do not lead to wrongful disclosure of official information . the armed force operate within a different legal and constitutional construct to that of civilian , so they be not explicitly cover by the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 — PIDA . however , as a matter of policy under this Government and the previous Government , the Ministry of Defence already recognise and adhere to the criterion for protect disclosure , and it follow the prescribed procedure and protection for those make a qualifying disclosure . the MOD will not tolerate any form of victimisation of an individual for raise a genuine concern . the Government amendment be support by further non - legislative commitment which , take together , far bolster trust and confidence in the Armed Forces Commissioner in that respect . they include review and update the Ministry of Defence ' s policy and protection relate to raise a concern , which would include whistleblowe in the sense we be discuss it today . to be clear , the Government recognise the importance of due protection for whistleblower . indeed , just this week the Cabinet Office be host a whistleblowing conference , bring together policy representative from across Government to review the current whistleblowing framework and discuss forthcoming change under the Employment Rights Bill . that Bill contain a new clause strengthen protection for people wish to make a protect disclosure under PIDA , and explicitly recognise sexual harassment as ground for a protect disclosure . the Ministry of Defence ' s " raise a concern " policy will be review and update to reflect these change , and we welcome the interest of member from all party in that process . what proportion of the commissioner ' s time , and that of his or her staff , do the Minister envisage be devoted to individual matter of casework , of the sort he have just describe , and what proportion will be around thematic investigation , such as the state of service housing ? that be a genuinely fair question . the Bill be draft in such a way that there be no obligation or requirement for any commissioner who be appoint to resource accord to a Government position . it be for the Armed Forces Commissioner to decide the allocation of resource and energy . however , the german armed force model , from which we have take inspiration , undertake two to three thematic investigation a year with dedicated team , use feedback from people who have raise a concern officially and from those get in touch to raise an issue but not necessarily expect it to be deal with as casework . the majority of the resource , due to the casework function , relate to correspondence , but it would be for the UK Armed Forces Commissioner to make that determination . the Bill provide the power to do that . let I come to the amendment from the other place , because the power relate to whistleblowing be a key part of why we do not think the amendment be suitable . first , the use of " whistleblower " be inappropriate in this context , despite the value we place on the function . although more recently the use of the term have be more relaxed , and raise a concern and whistleblowing be use interchangeably , engagement in 2019 under the previous Government with the whistleblowing charity Protect suggest that the term might be put people off come forward . today , we be talk about law , rather than the policy that will be implement . although the term whistleblowing appear in a few limited circumstance in law , there be no single agree definition of whistleblowing in UK legislation . simply use the term in this Bill , as propose by the Opposition ' s Lords amendment 2B and 2C , would therefore have no practical legal effect and would provide no protection that do not already exist or be not already provide for in the Government ' s amendment in lieu . terminology aside , I have several real concern about the new amendment insert in the other place . the whistleblow investigation propose by these amendment have the same scope as the current investigation on general service welfare matter provide for by the Bill , but none of the associated power of investigation , so the amendment do not allow the commissioner to access site to assist their investigation . they do not allow the commissioner to access information or document to assist their investigation . they do not require the Secretary of State to co - operate , assist and consider any finding or recommendation , as be the current wording , and the amendment do not require report to go to the Secretary of State or to be lay before Parliament . the scope of the amendment be therefore considerably narrower . issue raise under the propose new clause can relate only to people subject to service law — namely the man and woman of our armed force and not family member , as I say in reply to the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) — and can not be about term of service . the commissioner would need to consult the individual before start an investigation , constrain their independence and possibly lead to junior staff face pressure from senior to withhold consent . the anonymity protection would relate only to investigation under this propose new clause , which be unlikely ever to be use , for the reason that I have set out . it also remove the anonymity protection that the Government propose to include . more importantly , however , the Bill be intend to provide a safe route for people to come forward with their concern and know that they will be consider by a truly independent figure . we want people to feel secure and empower to raise those concern , and we want the commissioner to have the full range of power as provide for in the Bill to deal with all matter raise with they . the amendment would restrict the power available to the commissioner to deal with complaint raise through this process . I do not believe that be really what the House want to see on whistleblowing . the Minister will remember a Westminster Hall debate — I think it be last week — in which I inaccurately and over - optimistically refer to this as the Armed Forces Commissioner Act , not realise it be still go back and forth between here and the other place . I be correct by the shadow Defence Minister , the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) . I assume it be a friendly correction of my misunderstanding about process . have I correctly understand that what be go on be some kind of political difference over the use of the word " whistleblower " , which have lead to a badly draft amendment be insert into the Bill ? that amendment will weaken the Bill and reduce its ability to do what be intend . at the same time , it will delay thing , when the Department be at the point of be able to advertise for and appoint an Armed Forces Commissioner — someone to be in that role , fight for the welfare of our armed service personnel . I hope that this be not a party political issue , because many of the member raise concern about whistleblowe in the other place be do so because they recognise that cultural issue within our armed force need to be address and to get clarity on what the Government seek to do . I hope that from the statement that my colleague Lord Coaker have make to the other place , and from the remark I have make at this Dispatch Box , colleague can feel reassure that we take issue of culture , harassment and abuse seriously , and we be clear that there be no place for they in our armed force . we be update the policy and procedure on whistleblowe and raise a concern from the policy we inherit from the last government , so as to improve it and take it far . we recognise that the Employment Rights Bill will far strengthen that . I realise that the opposition do not support the Employment Rights Bill , but we do , and it will far enhance the protection for whistleblower . by update these policy and by include the cross - government learn that our colleague in the Cabinet Office be co - ordinating at the moment , we will have a strong policy . I hope that my place that on the record here , as my noble Friend Lord Coaker will do in the other place when the Bill return there , will be enough for those member who be concerned to be satisfied that the Government have a genuine desire to address these issue and that the amendment , as draft , create a narrow scope for the commissioner , and would prevent they from achieve their objective , due to the wording . it be therefore time to let the amendment fall away so that the Bill can pass . I thank my hon . friend for his intervention , and I assure he that he be not the only person who get intervene on by the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) for clarification . we be always grateful for his knowledge when he do so . we have deliberately draft the Bill to be as broad , clear and inclusive as possible , and through our communication campaign and guidance that we have already announce , we will make it clear to anyone who be subject to service law that they and their family can approach the commissioner to raise a general service welfare matter , however big or small , and whether it affect they directly or not . in that respect , it provide for the intended function of the amendment . I make it explicitly clear that the power to initiate investigation base on information provide by the commissioner already exist in the Bill . in addition , there be exist policy and procedure in place for people in defence to raise concern that fall outside the definition of a general service welfare matter , such as fraud or criminal activity . recognise protection be already in place for those matter . all defence civil servant be cover by the protection provide by PIDA , and all military personnel be provide those same protection through exist defence policy . our commitment to review and update defence policy and process , in conjunction with the protection that be already in place for both civilian and member of our armed force , plus the deficiency in the amendment insert by the other place , mean that now be the time for both Houses to do the right thing and bring the Bill into law at the early opportunity . Lord Coaker and I will be write to the opposition spokespeople in the other place — I be grateful for the engagement that have already take place , both between Baroness Goldie and Lord Coaker and between the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) , Baroness Kramer and I — to address their concern in detail , to provide write assurance about the change we be make that confirm what I have say at the Dispatch Box today , and to invite their contribution as we seek to develop and renew the " raise a concern " policy . I therefore urge the House to support the Government ' s position , to ensure that we can deliver this vital manifesto commitment for our brave servicemen and woman and their family as soon as possible . I call the shadow Minister . I rise to address the Lords amendment , follow yet another Government defeat in the other place . as I say last month when we last debate this important Bill , his Majesty ' s official opposition be drive by a commitment to ensure that our brave servicemen and woman receive the robust , transparent and fair support they deserve . the Bill , which aim to establish an independent Armed Forces Commissioner with Ofsted - like power to gain access to military site and information , hold the potential to improve the welfare and accountability framework for our armed force . if implement effectively , it could significantly enhance public confidence in the way in which the concern of service personnel be address . I believe that this vision enjoy broad support across the House — although yet again I have to place on record that when we be discuss important legislation that affect the welfare and wellbeing of armed force personnel and their family , no Reform Member of Parliament be in the Chamber of the House of Commons . they can not spend the whole of their life on TikTok , particularly as it be a chinese system . our duty as his Majesty ' s opposition be to ensure that the Bill deliver on its promise without introduce unnecessary complexity . we must scrutinise the way in which the commissioner ' s role integrate with the exist complaint system , and what it mean for those navigate they . today we focus again on the key issue of whistleblowing , which be debate extensively in the other place and which now lie before this House yet again . our amendment , champion by Baroness Goldie , seek to empower the commissioner to investigate whistleblowe concern relate to welfare and service issue , while guarantee anonymity for those who come forward , be they service personnel , their family or other . this be not a radical proposal but a reasonable compromise , incorporate the exact wording of the Government ' s Commons amendment on anonymity in report , alongside our whistleblowing duty . the Government argue that exist mechanism — a confidential hotline , investigation team and improve complaint process — be sufficient , and that our amendment do not confer additional power . that stance be , I be afraid , both inconsistent and unconvincing . the Minister ' s own " dear colleague " letter of 30 May generously acknowledge that Baroness Goldie ' s amendment have spark an important debate , yet the Government resist embed a clear , statutorily protect whistleblowing function . such a provision be essential to ensure that vulnerable service personnel can raise concern without fear of reprisal . Lord Coaker , speak for the Government in the other place on 11 June , claim that the term " whistleblower " and " whistleblowing " might deter individual from come forward , cite Cabinet Office guidance . that suggestion be plainly daft . if the term " whistleblowing " be truly a barrier , why do the national health service successfully operate its " freedom to speak up " policy , which explicitly use the term ? why do the Children ' s Commissioner issue an annual whistleblowing report ? those example demonstrate that the term be not a deterrent , but a recognised and effective framework for protect those who expose wrongdoing . to argue otherwise undermine the very concept of whistleblowe regime across multiple sector and public service in the United Kingdom . the Government far contend that whistleblowe lack a clear legal definition . that be simply untenable . section 340Q of the Armed Forces Act 2006 be entitle " Investigation of concern raise by whistle - blower " , and section 29d of the Police Reform Act 2002 provide another clear statutory precedent . those act show that include whistleblowe in legislation add tangible value , ensure protection for those who raise concern . if whistleblowing be robust enough for the Police Reform Act and for the very Act that this Bill amend , how can the Government claim that it lack clarity or value in this instance ? that be totally inconsistent . the Government ' s position be riddle with contradiction . in Committee , our broad amendment to empower the commissioner be dismiss by the Ministry of Defence as be too wide - ranging . in a spirit of compromise , we narrow it to focus on welfare and service issue . now the Government claim that the revise amendment be too narrow and lack sufficient power . Lord Coaker argue that our amendment , if pass , would limit the commissioner ' s investigation to the same scope as current power , without enable access to site , information or document , or require the Secretary of State to co - operate or report to Parliament . if the Government believe that our amendment do not go far enough , why do they not support it and propose their own broad amendment to enhance the commissioner ' s power , which would almost take we back to the status quo ante ? this inconsistency suggest a reluctance to engage constructively , as if argument be be pluck out of thin air to block progress . Lord Coaker — with whom I deal when he be in this place , and for whom , for the avoidance of doubt , I have immense respect — also claim that our amendment exclude family member and term of service issue , and would apply only to those subject to service law . that be incorrect . our amendment define a whistleblower as a person " subject to service law or … a relevant family member . " thus a corporal ' s sister , for example , could raise a whistleblowing concern if the corporal face abuse or bullying by a military colleague . this provision ensure that family member have a voice , directly contradict the Government ' s assertion to the contrary . let I give a brief theoretical example . let we consider the possibility of a whistleblower be someone who serve in the British Army in Northern Ireland under Operation Banner . that be an extremely topical issue at present , as the Minister will know , give the Government ' s appal remedial order to excise key part of the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 . I do not know whether all armed force personnel who serve in Northern Ireland have privately sign the parliamentary petition entitle " Protect Northern Ireland Veterans from Prosecutions " , but I can say that as of today , more than 164 , 000 people have sign it . we therefore look forward very much to a debate in Parliament on 14 July on exactly that matter , which I be sure will be follow closely by the veteran community and their family . this be not an " angel on a pinhead " argument . it be actually quite important . the Government ' s assurance about anonymity and communication campaign to promote the commissioner ' s role be welcome but insufficient . a campaign can be no substitute for a clear , statutory whistleblowing provision that service personnel can trust — to be fair , I should add that when we debate the Bill before , the Minister talk about the issue of trust repeatedly . the other place recognise that , deliver another cross - party defeat to the Government in the last fortnight by amend the Bill to include a robust , anonymous whistleblowing route . our amendment represent a reasonable compromise , align with the Government ' s own wording on anonymity while embed a vital whistleblowing duty . to block it would signal that the Government be not serious about work constructively with the Opposition to improve the welfare of our armed force personnel , so I urge they to accept this compromise in the interest of all who serve . I will listen closely to anything far that the Minister have to say , but if the Government persist in offer assurance without statutory weight , I will have no choice but to test the opinion of the House . our service personnel deserve a system that hear their voice and protect their concern , and if we carry on play ping - pong — well , that be a sport that I be once quite good at . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I welcome Lord amendment 2B and 2C , table by Baroness Goldie in response to the Government ' s rejection of the original proposal . these amendment be not about party politic . they be table by a conservative peer and support across the House of Lords by Liberal Democrats and other . they represent a thoughtful , pragmatic effort to address a real and persistent problem : the need for an Armed Forces Commissioner who be not just a complaint handler , but an independent figure capable of receive and investigate whistleblowing disclosure about systemic welfare failure confidentially and without fear of reprisal . I welcome that the Minister have engage with Baroness Kramer and I . however , the Government ' s insistence on remove the Lords amendment and replace they with something far more limited be deeply disappointing . their approach diminish the ambition of the Bill and miss a critical opportunity to build genuine trust with service personnel and their family — something that the commissioner must get right from the start , or it will be near impossible to regain . let we be honest about what be at stake . behind the language of " whistleblowing " be real people — soldier , spouse and contractor — who have see something go seriously wrong and want to make it right , not for themselves but for other . they be not file a complaint ; they be raise the alarm . yet again and again , we have see these people let down — unheard , unsupported or even punish for speak out . from the appalling housing condition endure by military family to serious allegation of abuse and misconduct , the public have grow increasingly aware that internal complaint mechanism be not enough . that be why introduce whistleblowe matter , and why the Lords amendment be so vital . Baroness Goldie ' s revise amendment 2B and 2C strike a balance . they would preserve the key element of whistleblow protection , include a statutory duty for the commissioner to protect the anonymity of those who come forward , and they would respond directly to concern raise by the Government by make it clear that report must not identify whistleblower without their consent . the amendment would bring the Armed Forces Commissioner in line with modern expectation of public service oversight . from regulator and financial service to the NHS and beyond , have a whistleblowing channel alongside a complaint function be now standard . the Government argue that include the term " whistleblower " in legislation could somehow deter people from come forward , and refer to previous analysis undertake by the last Government . I find this baffling . the term be well establish in UK law , understand by the public and associate with great protection . it be clear , accessible and trust , and dilute or avoid it send precisely the wrong message . the Lords amendment would do more than close a gap ; they would send a message to our armed force community that Parliament be listen and that we recognise their loyalty — not just in word , but in the system we put in place to protect they . the Liberal Democrats have long call for a fair deal for service personnel and their family . we support the Bill , and the creation of the Armed Forces Commissioner as soon as possible , but to be effective the role must be equip with the right tool and must work from day one . that mean give people a confidential route to raise serious concern , and let they know that they will be treat with dignity and protect by law . I will vote against the Government ' s motion to remove the Lords amendment , and I urge all member to do the same . Baroness Goldie have offer a constructive and reasonable way forward . her compromise amendment uphold the integrity of the Bill , would give the commissioner proper investigatory reach and , most importantly , would give service personnel and their family a voice they can trust . let we take this opportunity to make the Bill strong and the culture of our armed force fair , safe and more accountable . I agree with the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) that we should arm the commissioner with the right tool on day one . that be precisely why I do not want to accept an amendment that would restrict those tool and provide weak protection for people raise whistleblowe concern via a propose route , rather that the route that be already in the Bill . it be precisely because I want the Bill to work that I be not accept weak amendment . I always find it useful to use the phrase " flip it to see it " to see whether something would work , and I want to try that here . let we take the counterfactual : if the Government propose an amendment that would restrict the commissioner ' s access to site in relation to a whistleblowing complaint compare to a normal complaint , or an amendment that would restrict access to information and document assist an investigation for a whistleblowing complaint rather than a normal matter , and that would restrict the requirement for the Secretary of State to co - operate , assist or consider any finding or recommendation on a whistleblowing complaint rather than a normal complaint , I think this House would rightly reject it . I be afraid that be what the Lords amendment would deliver : narrow scope , few power and less ability for the commissioner to investigate . I hope that the House can see from my remark that we believe in provide a route for people to raise their concern anonymously . we believe in the protection for it , and we be update the " raise a concern " policy that we inherit from the last government in order to deliver that work . the Bill should be pass and be make an Act of Parliament , so that we can implement its provision as fast as we can . the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) argue against the advice that his Government issue . he be well within his right to do so , give his government be defeat , but it be contrary to the position that exist until July . I do not support a poor amendment . I have engage constructively and will continue to do so , because it be right to do so . that be the spirit of this Government on this legislation , and it will continue to be the case . the right hon . Gentleman accuse the Government of not be serious about work for our armed force personnel , so let I very clear : I do not accept less for our armed force personnel . I be not accept the amendment from the other place , because they would provide few protection for people on the route that he suggest and few power for the commissioner to undertake that work . I believe that if it be not for the necessity to play some ping - pong in this respect , he would be agree with I on this matter . let we pass this Bill , put it in place , and give our armed force and their family the independent champion that they so richly deserve . I have listen very carefully to what the Minister have say , but I be afraid I remain unconvinced . I think he use the phrase " flip it to see it " . I could offer he another one : jaw - jaw be well than war - war . Baroness Goldie have do a great job in the other place in bring together people from across the political spectrum to concentrate on this very important matter . I recommend that the House vote against the Government today in order to send the Bill back to the other place , where there should be all - party negotiation , include with Government Ministers , to see if we can find a way through . as thing sit here and now , I be afraid we must press this into the Division Lobbies . question put . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Alison Hume Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Chris Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Gen Kitchen Jim Allister Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope Ellie chown James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Gareth davy Mims Davies Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Sorcha Eastwood Luke Evans Tim Farron will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Andrew George Sarah Gibson Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Wera Hobhouse Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Wendy Morton David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Sarah Olney Priti Patel Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Anna Sabine Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Lisa Smart Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden James Wild Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Harriet Cross Rebecca Paul the House divide : Ayes 321 , Noes 158 . question accordingly agree to . resolve , that this House insist on Commons amendment 2A , to which the Lords have disagree , and disagree with the Lords in Lords amendment 2B and 2C propose in lieu of that amendment . order , that a Committee be appoint to draw up reason to be assign to the Lords for insist on Commons amendment 2A and disagree to Lords amendment 2B and 2C in lieu of that amendment ; that Kate Dearden , Rachel Hopkins , Graeme Downie , Luke Akehurst , Lizzi Collinge , Mark Francois and Tessa Munt be member of the Committee ; that Kate Dearden be the Chair of the Committee ; that three be the quorum of the Committee . that the Committee do withdraw immediately . — ( Gerald Jones . ) Committee to withdraw immediately ; reason to be report and communicate to the Lords . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Act 2024 outlaw foreign Government ownership of UK medium organisation , set a limit of 5 % on that process . the Government have now move that from 5 % to 15 % , which be considerably high . however , there have be only a marginal debate in a Statutory Instrument Committee . my concern — it have only just be pass — be that that be a major change . it would have be fair if the Government have set about have a proper debate on it here in the Chamber of the House of Commons , because newspaper ownership be a very significant issue . the other place will potentially get a much large debate , yet we be the elect House . I ask your advice , Madam Deputy Speaker , on how we may raise the issue again ? I thank the right hon . member for give I prior notice of this point of order . it be not a matter for the Chair , but his comment be now on the record . defence I beg to move , that the draft Armed Forces Act 2006 ( Continuation ) Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 9 June , be approve . the draft order will address the constitutional requirement , under the Bill of Rights 1688 , that a stand Army , and by extension the Royal Navy and the Royal Air Force , must receive the consent of Parliament . the draft order provide that consent by continue into force for another year the Armed Forces Act 2006 , the legislation that govern the armed force . this debate usually take place in a Delegated Legislation Committee , before return to the Floor of the House for approval . give the significance to the country of both the armed force and the democratic oversight that Parliament provide , it be fitting that the debate be today be afford time on the Floor of the House . that enable all member who wish to contribute to do so , for as the strategic defence review have show , we must put our people at the heart of defence — I know that on all side of the House there be strong support for our people . Parliament be require to renew the Armed Forces Act every five year through primary legislation — the next armed force Bill be require to have obtain Royal Assent by December 2026 — and in the intervene year it be to approve an annual order in Council , such as the one before we today . the Act provide nearly all the provision for the existence of a service justice system . it provide for the service offence and for the investigation of alleged offence , the arrest , hold in custody and charging of armed force personnel accuse of commit an offence wherever in the world they be serve . on that last point , I draw the House ' s attention to the explanatory memorandum to the order , which state : " the extent of this instrument be the United Kingdom , the Isle of Man , the Channel Islands , and the british overseas territory except Gibraltar . " there be a distinct difference between the extent of UK legislation and how the jurisdiction of service law be apply . the extent of any legislation be a statement about in which separate legal jurisdiction the legislation form part of the law . not extend to Gibraltar simply mean that the 2006 Act do not form part of gibraltarian law . that be because Gibraltar have make an agreement with the United Kingdom that it will pass forward amendment to the Act in its own legislation . conversely , service law apply to member of the armed force wherever they be in the world , so effectively there be unlimited geographical jurisdiction with regard to our service personnel and , in some circumstance , civilian subject to service discipline , include those base in , or serve in , Gibraltar . the 2006 Act provide the legal basis for office such as the Judge Advocate General and the Director of Service Prosecutions , as well as the court martial , the summary appeal court and the service civilian court . it also set out the process for the accuse to be deal with by their commanding officer , or to be try at court martial . finally , the Act also contain provision that cover non - service justice matter , such as service complaint and the armed force covenant . as such , the next armed force Bill will likely contain a mixture of both service justice measure and non - service justice measure . I look forward to work with member across the House when it be introduce in due course . in addition , we have commit to tackle the unacceptable behaviour that have plague defence in the past , root out toxic behaviour that we see evidence of in our armed force . there be no place for abuse in the UK armed force . today ' s debate come against a backdrop of this Government deliver for defence , for our service personnel and for veteran , by put people at the heart of our defence plan and renew the nation ' s contract with those who serve , combine with a whole - of - society approach to our national resilience . that be why , last year , we deliver the big pay rise for our armed force in 20 year . we follow that up with another above - inflation rise recently . that be why we have secure a major housing deal to buy back over 36 , 000 military home , improve house for armed force family and save taxpayer billion . we be invest £ 7 billion to improve military accommodation over the course of this Parliament . that be why we have set new target to tackle the recruitment and retention crisis we inherit from the previous Government , the result of which be clear already : inflow up 19 % , outflow down 7 % , and the Army experience a seven - year high in application volume . we be deliver for defence . that be why we will be appoint an Armed Forces Commissioner to improve service life , and be make it easy for veteran to access care and support for our £ 50 million valour network . after all , the Government recognise that the world have change . we be in a new era of threat , which demand a new era for UK defence . the strategic defence review , publish last month , will make Britain safe , secure at home and strong abroad , and set a path for the next decade and beyond to transform defence and end the hollowing out of our armed force that we have see over the past 14 year . decisive action have already be take . we have : step up and speed up support for Ukraine ; sign the landmark Trinity House agreement with Germany ; start work at pace on a new defence industrial strategy , ensure defence be an engine for growth ; and implement the deep Ministry of Defence reform programme in decade . all of that have be underpin by an increase in defence spending of nearly £ 5 billion this year , and a commitment to reach 2 . 5 % in April 2027 , 3 % in the next Parliament and 3 . 5 % in 2035 — the large sustained increase in defence spending since the end of the cold war . one of the fundamental tenet of the strategic defence review , as the Minister be now broaden this out , be that we should be prepare to fight and defeat a peer enemy by 2035 , which be 10 year from now . why , after all the hullabaloo about the much - vaunted defence review , have this Government return to what in the 1920s be know as the 10 - year rule ? I would say to the right hon . member that his Government leave our force hollow out and underfunde , leave our force live in appal accommodation , leave a retention and recruitment crisis that mean that for every 100 people join our force , 130 be leave , and leave a situation where morale fall each and every year for the last decade in every one of our service . we be fix that . we be get our defence back on track . that be why the defence review set out the journey to transform our defence , why the Chancellor have provide additional financial resource this year , and why the Prime Minister support the defence investment pledge at the recent NATO summit — something I hope the right hon . Gentleman ' s party will , in due course , bring itself to do . we need to be ready to deliver for our defence and to stand with our ally , and that be what we be do today : we be end the hollow out and underfunding . as someone who value defence sometimes more than his party loyalty , as I see in the previous Parliament , I hope the right hon . Gentleman would welcome that . indeed , I hope he have the opportunity to do so in a moment , when he stand up to speak . I be not sure there be much point in we just blame each other on this matter . there be historical parallel . in 1935 we be spend only 2 . 5 % of our national wealth on defence . there be massive rearmament follow that and consensus on both side of the House , and by 1945 we be spend the good part of 50 % of national wealth on it . it would be much well if the two party try to work together on this matter and realise that we be face an existential crisis in the world , and that thing be very different now from 2010 or 2015 , or whenever , and that we should work together to massively increase defence spending . I thank the right hon . gentleman for that point , and I agree with what he say . it be precisely the reason that when the Defence Secretary be the shadow Defence Secretary , and when I be the shadow Minister for the Armed Forces , we have a position of cross - party support on defence matter . it be really important , I think , that we get back to that place . when our adversary look at the United Kingdom , they should see strong cross - party support , as indeed I believe they do when we debate Ukraine . there be a strong set of plan in our strategic defence review , with increase defence funding get to 2 . 5 % , a figure we have not match in the past 14 year . there be a real opportunity to send a united message from this House to our adversary and to our people who serve . I hope that the right hon . Gentleman ' s colleague on the Front Bench be listen to his comment as closely as I be . member have the opportunity to approve this order today , know that the Government be deliver on our pledge . on a very serious note , the opposition have be accuse of be pro - Russia , pro - China and pro - Iran repeatedly by the Prime Minister , which the Minister have defend , because we dare to oppose the Chagos deal . if he want unity , we need to see that on both side of the House . I think the unity we see on the Chagos deal be that the Conservatives start a deal and we finish it ; they agree it be the right thing to start negotiation and hold 11 round , and we agree it be the right thing to complete that deal . we put our national security first in that respect , secure the future of the Diego Garcia base and win the support of our US friend , our NATO ally , our five Eyes partner and India locally . it be up to the hon . gentleman which side of the debate he wish to be on — we choose the side of our national security . hon . member can approve this order today , know that we be deliver on the pledge to rewrite the contract between the United Kingdom and those who serve in order to improve it . the Armed Forces Act — and , by extension , this order — underpin the very existence of his Majesty ' s armed force . it back those who , like my old man — a Royal Navy submariner — and so many across this House , step forward to serve our country and protect our United Kingdom and our ally and partner in an era of global instability , to deploy globally in support of british objective and to support our national security . with the consent of the House today , Parliament will acknowledge , pay tribute to and back their service . the purpose of this instrument be to provide for the continuation in force of the Armed Forces Act 2006 , which would otherwise expire in mid - December 2025 . in essence , the measure provide for the 2006 Act to continue in force for a further year , take we up to a deadline of 14 December 2026 . for those with an historical interest — among whom I include myself — the principle of the legislation date back to the Bill of Rights 1688 , as the Minister intimated , which , give that it follow on from the civil war , declare the " raise or keeping of a stand army within the United Kingdom in time of peace , unless with the consent of Parliament , to be against the law . " this provision have result in the requirement , since 1688 , that all legislation on discipline in the armed force be annually renew , hence this order . as the Minister state , this instrument should have support across the House , and I be sure that it do . however , yet again , when we be debate defence — when we be debate an order that be fundamental to the discipline and integrity of our armed force — there be no Reform mps in the Chamber . why ? it be because reform do not do defence . the Minister and I have see that time and again over the past year — so there be a point of consensus , if he want one . while this order might appear to be a mere formality , albeit an important one , it give I the opportunity to ask my opposite number , the Minister for the Armed Forces , four important question , but before I do , I will just report to the Minister that the cadet , who be an important part of the armed force family , be indeed well disciplined and in good heart . I attend an Armed Forces Day event in Basildon on Saturday , as I have do for year , and be honour to be invite to inspect the Air Cadets on parade . when I ask one very smart cadet why he have decide to join the Air Cadets , he reply , " because my mum make I , Sir , although three year in , I ' m very grateful that she do . " I also manage to grab a quick drink with some veteran in a local hostelry . however , mysteriously , all four mp in the Basildon borough — none of whom be Labour mp — appear not to have be invite this year . I can only presume that our invitation be lose in the post . I say gently to the Minister , more in sorrow than in anger , that play silly partisan game like this be demean for the Labour - lead council . on that point , will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? no . Armed Forces Day be too important for this sort of silly nonsense , which embarrass Basildon council in the eye of the public and , indeed , its local mps . in all seriousness , perhaps the Minister could have a word with his colleague on the council and make sure that this unfortunate oversight do not happen again . defence be traditionally a bipartisan issue . we all believe in the defence of the realm , and I have always believe that it be the first duty of Government . however , I say to the Minister , on the Floor of the House , that he can not have it both way . he can not on the one hand plead for unity between the Government and the opposition and then , when it suit , imply that opposition spokesman be russian , chinese or iranian fellow traveller just because they have the temerity not to agree with the Government on their bonker Chagos deal . my honest advice to the Minister be to make up his mind and be consistent ; he will then receive the respect that he ask for . I turn to the order . Armed Forces act be normally subject to quinquennial review . we have Armed Forces act in 2011 , 2016 and 2021 , and we can expect a further Act before the instrument expire in December 2026 . give the vagary of parliamentary life , few thing be certain , but assume for a moment that it will be the Armed Forces Minister and I who will take this legislation through on behalf of our respective party , this seem a good opportunity to ask the Minister two question . first , what be the late timing for that legislation , and when can we expect to see a Bill ? secondly , could he give the House some idea of the likely key theme of that Bill , and the area , if any , in which the legislation be likely to differ materially from the Armed Forces Act 2021 ? in fairness , he drop a hint a few moment ago that there will be service justice provision ; perhaps he could expand on that slightly , if he have the opportunity . I ask because there will be a large number of interested party , include the armed force themselves , obviously , the armed force family federation , military charity and other . from previous experience , I can say that they will take a close and important interest in the Bill . give they as good a head - up as possible be clearly desirable . perhaps the Minister could assist the House with that . as the explanatory note that the Minister refer to point out , be this order not to be pass , " the key effect … would be to end the provision which be necessary to maintain the armed force as discipline body . crucially , the 2006 Act confer power and set out procedure to enforce the duty of member of the armed force to obey lawful command . without the 2006 Act , those power and procedure would no long have effect ; command officer and the Court Martial would have no power of punishment in respect of a failure to obey a lawful command or any other form of disciplinary or criminal misconduct . member of the armed force would still owe allegiance to his Majesty , but the power of enforcement would be remove . " clearly , that would be very undesirable , and for the avoidance of doubt , we will most certainly not vote against this order in a few minute ' time , but there be an important point here about member of the armed force be require to obey lawful command . that bring I on to my third question for the Minister . as recently as defence question on Monday , we debate in the Chamber the fate of the 300 , 000 or so british Army veteran who serve in Northern Ireland on Operation Banner . they be lawfully command to help uphold the rule of law in support of the Royal Ulster Constabulary GC , now the Police Service of Northern Ireland , and to protect all people in Northern Ireland , of whatever tradition , from heinous act of terrorism , whether by bomb or by bullet . as the Minister will be well aware , the Government have table a so - call remedial order that would cut out element of the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 , thus potentially open up some of those veteran to an endless cycle of investigation and reinvestigation . the order also make it easy for the like of Gerry Adams and his compadre to sue the british taxpayer for hundred of million of pound . accord to a press report in the Daily Telegraph yesterday and an associated answer by the Northern Ireland Secretary to a parliamentary question , the Government have decide to drop the part of the remedial order that would assist Mr Adams and his associate in sue the british taxpayer . if that report be true , we Conservative Members would warmly welcome it . however , it do not solve the problem of our brave veteran who serve in Northern Ireland often be persecute at the behest of Sinn F é in . whenever my right hon . friend and other member of the conservative shadow defence team bring up the question of reopen this lawfare against our veteran , Government Ministers say , " we will be sure to give veteran maximum support . " to I , that imply not protect they from the lawfare , but support they as they go through the process ; but the process be the punishment . everybody know that people involve in fatal incident would serve only a limited prison term if , heaven forbid , they be convict , but the probability be that they will not be convict ; the punishment lie in what they have to go through before they be acquit . my right hon . friend chair the Select Committee on which I serve some year ago , when it produce a very good report on this issue , so he be an expert on this . all I will say be that when it come to legacy issue , Labour often provide legal support , but not necessarily always to veteran . if the Minister wish to maintain morale in the armed force past and present — this order be clearly necessary for do that — perhaps he will take this opportunity to clarify the Government ' s position . do they still intend to table a remedial order , or to move straight to what the labour manifesto describe as new legislation in the field of legacy matter ? which be it ? I seek clarification and support from shadow Front Benchers on this . do they recognise that there may be a bit of disagreement in the Government between Ministers in the Ministry of Defence and those in the Northern Ireland Office on how to proceed ? I certainly hope there be . I very much hope that MOD Ministers be fight tenaciously in private , even if they can not say so in public , to have this mad order scrap , and to defend the Northern Ireland veteran , just as the Northern Ireland veteran defend all of we . the Minister understand exactly what I mean by that , and I think that he and some of his ministerial colleague may have be work on this . if they have , then we in good faith wish they Godspeed . I have one more question on this matter , and then I will move on . if it be the Government ' s intention to still go ahead with the remedial order — again , the House would really welcome clarity on this — despite the fact that it would have disastrous consequence for recruitment and retention , which the Minister mention a few minute ago , can he confirm exactly what the Government ' s policy be ? be it to go down the remedial order route , or down the route of introduce new primary legislation , and if it be the latter , what be the timing for that new Bill ? fourthly and finally , the Minister for the Armed Forces have sign a formal statement to the effect that , in his view , the provision of the Armed Forces Act 2006 ( Continuation ) Order 2025 be compatible with the european convention on human right . however , there be a question : be british troop to be deploy to Ukraine as part of some coalition of the willing — perhaps follow a ceasefire in Ukraine — what would happen to those british troop if they be to be involve in combat with russian force , or russian acolyte ? what guarantee could the Ministry give that if soldier fire their weapon in anger , they would not subsequently be subject to lawfare under the Human Rights Act 1998 , even decade after the event , as be the case in Northern Ireland ? this be not an idle point . I understand that the issue of lawfare and its effect on recruitment and retention in the British Army have be raise at the most senior level in the Army , include in recent meeting with the Chief of the General Staff . this be very much a live issue that deserve to be raise in Parliament , not least for the soldier who might have to take these action for real . give all this , would it not be helpful — as suggest a number of time by my hon . friend the Member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) , the shadow Defence Secretary — for the Minister to issue a formal declaration that we would derogate from the european convention on human right in relation to any british military operation relate to Ukraine , so that soldier who serve in that conflict would be exclude from any lawfare prosecution , even decade later ? the Minister will know that the issue be materially affect morale in the armed force , and especially in the special force community , so any reassurance he can give regard a derogation would no doubt be gratefully receive . to summarise , we obviously support this order to continue the operation of the Armed Forces Act 2006 until December 2026 . it would be helpful to have some idea of timing , and even of the content of the prospective Armed Forces Act 2026 , as it be likely to be , to allow interested party to plan . to maintain morale and discipline in our armed force , perhaps the Minister could also confirm whether the Government would countenance derogation from the echr during future military operation , potentially include those in defence of Ukraine . moreover , perhaps he could update the House on where we be on the Government ' s propose new legislation on legacy matter , and on the fate of the propose remedial order under the Human Rights Act 1998 . be the Government contemplating remove clause from that remedial order , or be they abandon it altogether , and instead rely on new primary legislation to achieve their aim ? the Father of the House , my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , give we all very wise advice : we should increase defence spending . we certainly should , in this increasingly dangerous world ; we can argue about by how much and how quickly . we Conservative Members want to work constructively with the Government and the Ministry of Defence , for the defence of the realm — but do unto other as you would have they do unto you . I can now announce the result of today ' s defer Divisions . on the draft Enterprise Act 2002 ( Mergers Involving Newspaper Enterprises and Foreign Powers ) Regulations 2025 , the Ayes be 338 and the Noes be 79 , so the Ayes have it . on the draft Criminal Justice Act 2003 ( suitability for Fixed Term Recall ) Order 2025 , the Ayes be 333 and the Noes be 168 , so the Ayes have it . [ the Division list be publish at the end of today ' s debate . ] I thank the Minister for his statement . I appreciate he bring the debate to the Floor of the House . it show the importance of the issue and the importance that the Government place on our armed force and , in particular , our armed force personnel . I welcome the pay rise that this Government be give our service personnel and the commitment that the Minister have make personally to tackle recruitment and retention issue , as well as , of course , the £ 5 billion increase in spending . as I be unable to intervene on the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) , I must say that I be disappointed that this have turn into a party political debate , but I assure everyone in the House — after say that — that I do not intend to say any more on that matter . this order reflect a constitutional requirement , but it also give we an annual opportunity to thank our brave servicemen and woman . as I have mention previously in this House , I be the son and , like most people my age , the grandson of veteran , so I recognise the sacrifice that our armed force family make for this country . if the continuation order be not agree , command officer and court martial will no long have the power to punish or discipline service people , so it be obviously really important that we pass it today . we should recognise that , for the vast majority of our servicemen and woman , the part of the Act cover by the order be irrelevant . however , we must support our servicemen and woman as they support we , which be why I welcome the work of Ministers and veteran on Op VALOUR . as Lord Coaker say in the other place : " we inhabit a world that be more dangerous than at any time since the fall of the Soviet Union in 1991 " . — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 22 October 2024 ; Vol . 840 , c . GC84 . ] that be something that everybody in this House can reflect on . like many member from all party , I attend the turning of the page ceremony organise by the Speaker ' s Office and the Serjeant at arm . every week , I hear the name of member of this House and child of member of this House who lose their life in the second world war , and I find it incredibly move . this morning , it be particularly move when one name be read out : it be the name of a son of a Member of the House who pass away at the age of eight . of course , our service personnel and our country can not work in isolation , and it be incredibly important to recognise the work that our armed force do in collaboration with our NATO ally . finally , I would like to take this opportunity to thank all hon . and gallant Members of this House — I know that one of they , the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) , be about to speak , and I be glad that he have return to his place — for what they have do in their past career to keep we all safe . I also pay tribute to the servicemen and woman of my constituency of Harlow and the UK as a whole for their continuous service , keep we and our family safe during these increasingly troubled time . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . today ' s motion may appear procedural , but it sit at the heart of how we govern our armed force and , by extension , how we uphold parliamentary democracy and the rule of law . under the Bill of Rights of 1688 , a stand army in peacetime must be consent to annually by Parliament . that annual renewal be not just constitutional housekeeping . it be a clear democratic statement that power in this country derive from Parliament , and that our armed force serve under the law , not above it . I will , of course , support the continuation order . the Armed Forces Act 2006 provide a unified legal framework that enable our military to function . without it , the service justice system would fall away . Discipline could not be enforce and command officer would be strip of lawful authority , and there would be no mean to uphold the standard of service that we rightly expect . with that annual consent must come annual scrutiny . we owe it to those who serve under this Act to ensure that the political leadership they serve be worthy of their trust . the reality be that , over recent year , conservative government have fail in their duty to our armed force . while a brutal war rage in Europe , the previous Government be cut 10 , 000 troop from our Army . our armed force be now small than they have be for generation , at a time when global threat be escalate . equipment programme be routinely over budget and behind schedule . the National Audit Office have repeatedly warn about capability gap in area such as battlefield communication , armoured vehicle and naval readiness , and our service personnel be too often ask to do more with less , and that include live in unacceptable condition with a housing system that do not meet their need . the effectiveness of our armed force depend not just on kit , but on people . when these people be be let down — when we ask they to serve under a legal framework renew by this House , but do not support they properly in practice — we be not keep our side of the bargain . the Liberal Democrats be call for a different path . we demand the reversal of those short - sighted troop cut and a long - term plan to increase regular troop number to over 100 , 000 once more . that begin with immediate action through a new joining and re - enlistment bonus scheme to help recruit and retain at least 3 , 000 personnel , stabilise the force while we plan for future growth . we be also call for cross - party talk to agree a sustainable path to meet NATO ' s new spending target of 5 % of GDP , a goal that should be above party politic . the security of our country and our ally depend on serious , sustained commitment . beyond strategy and number , we want to deliver a fair deal for those who serve . that mean proper pay and decent condition . it mean high - quality housing that meet the decent home standard . as a minimum , it mean give real support for the transition to civilian life through access to mental health care , job opportunity and practical assistance for family who so often bear the strain behind the scene . we press the Government to deliver long overdue justice for LGBT veteran , many of whom be still await compensation after year of discrimination and dismissal . that process must be fair , fast and comprehensive . we also demand full implementation of the Atherton report ' s recommendation to tackle the entrenched issue of harassment and misogyny face by too many woman in uniform . service should never come with condition of fear or inequality . look ahead , we understand the new armed force Act be expect to be introduce in the next year . when the Bill be bring forward , I will hold the Government to a high standard . it must not be a copy - and - paste exercise . it must be an opportunity to improve the culture of our armed force by ensure that equality , accountability and modernisation be at its heart . the continuation order maintain the legal foundation of our armed force , but law alone be not enough . we need leadership , we need commitment , and we need a Government who do not simply consent to the military ' s existence once a year , but honour their service every single day with action , investment and respect . I welcome the Armed Forces Act 2006 ( Continuation ) Order 2025 and place on record my wholehearte support for our armed force and the role they play in provide national security and defence of this nation , both at home and deploy on operation across the globe . as a new MP last year , the first Delegated Legislation Committee I sit on consider the previous continuation order . I be very proud to be able to do that . as a veteran and now the MP for a constituency in Huntingdon with british , US and wide NATO force , I know first hand how vital political support for our military be today . although we have move past the period of kinetic operation that typify my generation of warfare in Iraq and Afghanistan , the world feel more dangerous today than it do at that time . the russian invasion of Ukraine in 2022 precipitate a sea change in the nature of warfare . the manoeuvre warfare of old that we see during the initial invasion , unchanged in a generation and familiar to those of my generation and several before that , have be replace by cyber , drone , grey zone and subthreshold activity that feel like warfare but not so long ago would have be the preserve of science fiction or an episode of " Black Mirror " . that be the thread that must run through the strategic defence review and it be in such area that we must ensure our armed force be equip to compete in across domain . I do not doubt the Government ' s sentiment in wish to increase defence spending to ensure that we remain a credible and capable NATO ally , and that we continue to punch above our weight on the world stage . as an island nation in a notionally geographically safe part of the world , the legacy of our imperial past be one of world policing , post - colonial responsibility and expeditionary warfare . our decentralised , persistent nuclear capability ensure that we be a nation that continue to be take seriously , but my concern be that we be in danger of be bench , as those NATO ally close to the fray , who feel the threat from Russia on the eastern flank and the High North most keenly , will , with their vastly increase defence budget and whole - of - society approach to defence , make we a second - tier nation . the pledge to uplift defence spending to 5 % , with the claim that we will achieve 4 . 1 % by April 2027 , be simply not credible . this smoke and mirror approach reflect the fact that the sum do not add up . we see only yesterday that the Government ' s botched welfare reform have leave a £ 4 . 5 billion gap in the spending plan , which be couple with a furth £ 1 . 25 billion from the winter fuel u - turn . where will that money come from ? spending cut or high taxis be now inevitable , and growth projection look at well sluggish . meanwhile , the Government claim that they can reach 2 . 6 % on defence plus security , but they refuse to break down the quantum of that spending . how much of that 2 . 6 % be actually on hard defence , and how much be on the intelligence service ? by our estimate , the number be somewhere in the region of 0 . 15 % , which suggest that the real defence budget as a proportion of GDP be only 2 . 45 % . if we bear in mind that a sizeable proportion of that figure be solely our continuous at - sea deterrent , the figure for our conventional force drop to somewhere in the region of 1 . 7 % — a long way from the number that the Government be put forward . the 4 . 1 % figure that the Government be now puff their chest out about include 1 . 5 % on national security and general resilience . this contain everything from UK art spending to rural broadband . under the chapter on pursue asymmetric advantage , paragraph 25 detail that the royal research ship Sir David Attenborough play a part regard understand environmental change in the Arctic ocean , which mean that Boaty McBoatface be include in the Prime Minister ' s defence spending figure . do we honestly think that Russia and China will take that seriously ? the huge capability commitment that we see in the SDR and in the forthcoming equipment plan far outstrip our spending power . we be quite literally write cheque that we may never be able to cash . not only have we pledge to create an entirely new domain in cyber , but we be about to embark on an essential modernisation process which now simply do not look fund . the global combat air programme — a project not due to be deliver until the back end of the next decade , but one that run the risk of be outpace by technological change — be exquisitely capable , but in 20 year ' time , will a sixth - generation fighter need to be crew ? it may be crew in 2040 , but GCAP ' s out of service date be likely to be beyond 2070 . do we honestly believe that crew aircraft will be relevant by then ? furthermore , how will we deliver the loyal wingman in the system of system that it form part of ? drone be clearly the future of warfare , and although we continue to use Ukraine as the proving ground for a new capability against a near - peer adversary , the british Army should be on the front foot , rapidly equip and training with drone , rather than use e - sport as the only drone warfare training of note . I see the Minister take note . while he be write stuff down , let I suggest that a two - stage warhead a la Javelin on an FPV — first person view — drone be surely the next generation anti - armour capability that we need , thus consign enfilade fire from a defilade position to a thing of the past , despite my own anti - tank root . meanwhile , Project Grayburn mean that we will replace 150 , 000 sa80a3 rifle by 2030 — a significant logistical commitment , in term not just of change the weapon system , but of possibly change the nature of the ammunition as well . although that will increase stop power , it will also remove the purpose of 5 . 56 , which I be sure we do not need to go into in the Chamber today , and everything that go with that , include rifle rack , ammunition pouch , magazine and mag charger . this be the nitty - gritty of change a weapon platform that really do take its toll on exactly how we would implement that . we also intend to replace nearly 6 , 000 Land Rovers by 2030 , which be another significant logistical commitment in term of train soldier to drive they , put those vehicle out , and make sure that we have the logistical trail in place to be able to service those vehicle . these small but still resource - intensive task place more and more strain on our personnel . only today , I understand that the Ministry of Defence police have cut 1 , 500 role . with the Military Provost Guard Service under - resource and unable to replace they , the burden have fall on regular soldier to augment their guard task . such additional task with weekend guard erode goodwill and continue to contribute to retention problem . only a few week ago , I be in Poland visit the RAF conduct the NATO air policing role , interdict russian penetration along NATO ' s border . the personnel there be rightly extremely proud to serve , but at the same time the strain that the current operational tempo be place on those in specialist role be immense , require they repeatedly to spend long period away from home . incredibly , the additional penalty that they pay be a financial one , with all but those on the high LSA band find that the pay they receive for be separate from their family be often , at good , negligible and , at worst , a financial hit . second - order effect mean that an individual who may be be pay more to be on operation be not physically at home to help with the task there ; that mean have to pay for a babysitter rather than have their spouse look after the child . they have to pay for a dog walker rather than be able to leave the dog at home , for when the spouse return . those cost add up , and they simply be not factor into those extra payment that people receive for be on tour . meanwhile , we continue to see those who have already serve their nation question whether they continue to enjoy the support of those they have risk their life to serve . the concern around the treatment of Northern Ireland veteran leave Operation Banner veteran rightly very concerned about their future and about be hold accountable for action from over 50 year ago . without clarity on whether protection will be guarantee for those who serve their country , future recruitment could suffer hugely . People serve their country will lose confidence under this government that they will not one day be treat as a criminal . it raise question over my own service and that of my peer . the goalpost could one day move for we , and I know that that apply to former service people on both side of the House . I see the Security Minister on the Front Bench who serve so proudly in Afghanistan . I welcome the Armed Forces Act 2006 ( Continuation ) Order 2025 , and I be proud to play my small part in the history of one of our fine institution . I recognise and acknowledge the sentiment and intent of Defence Ministers to deliver for our service personnel ; I do not call that into question for one second . however , I wish to place on record my concern that the limitation place on they by Treasury accounting and the smoke and mirror approach to hit our NATO pledge will put the cross - party consensus on defence at risk , and the fiscal rule and botched legislation will reduce the Chancellor ' s spend power in a dangerous new world . this Government must demonstrate their front - footed commitment with tangible result , not just pledge . I want to contribute as the MP for Lagan Valley , which be the home of Army HQ in Northern Ireland . I , too , be proud of my family member who serve in the Regular Army , the Ulster Defence Regiment and the Royal Ulster Constabulary . however , I will depart from the view of some member ; I would say that they be professional in everything that they do , and they would agree with I — as would many across the House and indeed in Northern Ireland — that they serve not above the law but within the law , as any professional soldier will do . I pay tribute to the Royal British Legion ' s Lisburn and Dromore branch — and in particular to Brian Sloan from Lisburn Royal British Legion — which have be incredible in support veteran not just throughout Lagan Valley but across Northern Ireland , make sure that they be at the fore of both civic and remembrance event . I echo the remark make by the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) on the Opposition Front Bench about the cadet , whom people often overlook . in Lagan Valley we be bless to have sea , RAF and army cadet , and every time I look at those young people it make my heart feel proud and a wee bit more confident for the future . we be in a change security situation , as I think everybody in the House know , and one of the challenge that the Minister refer to in his opening remark be that of recruitment and retention . we must change the dial whenever we discuss these thing , because this should be an opportunity for our young people . I often hear young people malign and marginalise , but sometimes those young people desperately want to find meaning in life , and want to find that through service . that be exactly what the cadet provide , and they will be our engineer and strategic op planner of the future . I put on record my thank to those who be serve , to gallant member throughout the House and to people who have serve in Lagan Valley . I have their back in all of this completely and utterly . I be proud of they and of what they have do . lastly , I have a word for their family too , because there be often a hidden shift that people do not see and a hidden threat that many will still be deal with year from now . it be vital that we remember those people who have serve . I rise to raise an important point that have be report in the medium over the last 24 hour about the future of the Royal Marines . as a former Royal Marine and the Member of Parliament who represent the commando training centre in Lympstone , I think this be an issue that we need to discuss now . I hope that the Minister will be able to give some answer . it have be report that the Royal Marines be move away from their conventional amphibious operation and that large - scale beach landing and traditional force protection from sea be be replace with small , flexible team design to operate alongside special force . let I be clear : adaptability be vital , and I be sure that there be many merit in the direction of travel , but it be important that the Minister tell the House about this and give we the opportunity to discuss it . I worry that abandon hard - win capability without a clear and credible replacement be not adaptation ; it be risk . I would like to put some question to the Minister . be the Government remove the United Kingdom ' s amphibious warfare capability ? if so , what replace it ? what be the long - term plan to project force from sea to land if not through the Royal Marines in their traditional role ? we have no delivery date for the multi - role strike ship that be mean to underpin the new commando force concept . there be also no detailed plan and no answer on whether they will provide genuine operational flexibility or simply be a scale - back presence . will the mrs be able to deploy full commando unit at scale in high - threat environment or be they design purely for small team operation ? if it be the latter , be that now the full extent of our national amphibious ambition ? that bring we to special force support , which I know be not an issue that we can discuss in the Chamber with the Security Minister , who serve with the special force support group , in great detail . however , it have be report that 40 Commando have be task to operate alongside the Special Boat Service in sensitive national mission , include evacuation and hostage rescue . what do that mean for the Royal Marines ' contribution to the special force support group ? be the SFSG be restructure or reassign ? that speak to a deep point regard our NATO ally . we talk in the strategic defence review about be " NATO first " . NATO have long count on the UK ' s high - end amphibious expertise . it matter to our national resilience in a world where rapid deployment from the sea be often the only option . above all , it matter to the man and woman who serve , and they deserve clarity about their future role , mission and identity . I therefore urge the Minister to come forward with honest , detailed answer — not slogan or spin , but clarity on capability , posture and intent — because defence policy can not be make in stealth . for the final contribution , I call Robin Swann . I thank the Minister for bring forward this order . I have just a few question for he in regard to contribution make by other hon . member . many member have talk about the value of our cadet service in promote young people , the value that they provide and the additional skill training that be give . it be concern when I meet some cadet in Northern Ireland that their senior officer report that there be a fall in the core financial support — the core grant — that they receive from the Ministry of Defence . may I have clarity from the Minister , under this order , that if that be true , he will take the opportunity to reverse it ? it be not a large sum of money in relation to the Ministry of Defence ' s overall spend or , indeed , in relation to the projection talk about today . the cadet provide a valuable service and the financial support that be give to they should recognise that . on continue support , the Minister and I have have , and will continue to have , many exchange on the investment not just in our service personnel , but in the facility and the basis . I refer specifically to Northern Ireland . the Minister know about Aldergrove and the facility that it can be for all our armed force as a strategic location in our national defence . I would like to hear , even if it be under the SDR , that there be the possibility of further investment there . I pay tribute and give thank to all current and former service personnel . the shadow Minister make reference to the debate in this place on 14 July . I encourage all member of the House to participate so that our veteran can see their support . finally , I will turn to the local , as other member have do . will the Minister join I in congratulate the Royal British Legion branch in Ballyclare and Randalstown ? this year , they have celebrate the 100th anniversary of the support they provide to service personnel who have be through war , and they continue to support service personnel today . we now come to the Front Benchers . I call the shadow Minister . we have have a good debate — lively at time — about an important subject . again , for the avoidance of doubt , we will loyally support the order , which I be sure the House will pass without the need for a Division . we have have some very good speech , include from my hon . friend the Member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) . he recall his time serve as an infantry platoon commander . I have that same honour , although in my case it be as a cold war reservist rather than as a regular , like he . my hon . friend the Member for Exmouth and Exeter East ( David Reed ) ask a number of question about the future of the Royal Marines now that the Government have flog off most of our amphibious shipping . he ask for confirmation about timing on the MRSS class and about what happen to the Royal Marines now in their amphibious role . perhaps the Minister will provide the House with some reassurance . if it be true that the Royal Marines will lose their amphibious role , at least in the short term , will he say whether the Parachute Regiment be consult on that decision ? [ interruption . ] I see that Hansard must record that the Security Minister be chuckle at this point . I see the Security Minister chuckle away . I , too , would like confirmation that , as part of the big three , the RAF Regiment be also consult on this decision . I think the RAF Regiment have have other thing on its mind lately . I congratulate the hon . member for South Antrim ( Robin Swann ) on raise the important issue of Northern Ireland . that take I to the point on which I would like to conclude . I hope that the Minister will answer some of my question about what will happen to our Northern Ireland veteran . again , for the avoidance of doubt , I think I know where his heart lie on this . I can not recall whether the Security Minister serve in Northern Ireland — indicate assent . he be nod — I know that he serve with great distinction in Afghanistan , so he too will understand this . we on these Benches have to believe that in the privacy of discussion between Government Departments , they be do the right thing . perhaps the Minister can give some assurance to those of the 300 , 000 veteran who serve in Op Banner who be still with we that the Government will remove the sword of Damocles that hang over they , and allow those people who serve our country so bravely and with such distinction in incredibly difficult circumstance to sleep safely in their bed , as they deserve . I thank all member for their contribution to this debate . it be a good one , and I will refer briefly to a number of the issue that have be raise . first , I detect strong support for our armed force on all side of the House , which be good to see , so I hope there will not be a Division . this debate have show the merit in hold the annual order on the Floor of the House , but I suspect I will need to have a word with the Leader of the House and the whip before I commit to any future such debate , because that be definitely outside my swim lane . I thank the hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sorcha Eastwood ) for talk about cadet . it be absolutely right that we invest more in cadet , and that be why the strategic defence review set out our ambition to increase the size of our cadet force by 30 % . this be a strong investment in the future of our young people that provide opportunity to get lifelong skill and increase confidence , as well as a pathway for young people to serve in our armed force in order to fully realise the benefit . have see the cadet on parade on Plymouth Hoe for Armed Forces Day at the weekend , I know that there be strong support for they in every part of the country . the hon . Lady talk about young people find meaning through service , and I could not agree more . I be grateful to she for that contribution . the shadow Minister , the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) , ask I a number of question . we have to renew the Armed Forces Act every five year , and it will be renew in the proper way . we be look at what be necessary to update that legislation , especially as it will come in after the publication of the strategic defence review . he will be familiar with the fact that the strategic defence review make the case for a defence readiness Bill , and we be look at all those detail . I can reassure he that it be part of the commitment we have make that , follow the wide consultation we undertake for the Armed Forces Commissioner Bill , we will continue that in that spirit for future legislation . the right hon . Gentleman may have miss it , but just before Prime Minister ' s question today we have Northern Ireland question , and I believe the Northern Ireland Secretary reply to question on a number of issue that he have ask I about . I refer he to those remark because as he will know — if only because I say this every time he ask I a question on it — that these be matter for the Northern Ireland Office , although Defence clearly have strong equity and view on these matter as well . I be watch Northern Ireland question and , from memory , the Northern Ireland Secretary say that the Government would address this through primary legislation , but he give no indication of any kind as to what will happen to the outstanding remedial order . if Ministers can not answer that today , perhaps the Minister or the Northern Ireland Office could write to we and tell we where we stand . the right hon . Gentleman will know , because I have have a similar conversation in a variety of different format over recent week , that the policy intention of the Northern Ireland Office be to repeal and , importantly , replace the unlawful Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 . it have be find to be unlawful , it do not enjoy community support and it need to be repeal and replace . any Government who be elect last July would have have to do that . on the point about not enjoy community support , when we be have these debate in great detail , the highly divide community would always stand up and say how this be unacceptable and that be unacceptable , and then their representative would quietly come up to we and say , " for goodness ' sake , go on do what you be do . " the Minister may have some legal problem to overcome , but let he not be fool by what be say in public about what really need to be do . I thank the right hon . member for his contribution . indeed , it be a matter that my colleague in the Northern Ireland Office follow closely as that be the lead Department with responsibility for the repealing and replace of the legacy Act . I be certain that he will continue make suggestion in that way . it be not for I to make announcement on the Northern Ireland Office ' s behalf , but I be certain that it will have listen to what he have to say . I be grateful for the remark from the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) . I tell he just before this that I look forward to see he on the Front Bench in a shadow Defence role very soon . as he know , I be a big fan of what he have to say , and I like the way he bring his military expertise and a certain defence nerdery , which , as a defence nerd on the labour side , I very much appreciate . I politely say to the hon . member that my experience from engage with our ally on NATO ' s eastern flank — from Finland and the Baltic state all the way down , pass Belarus and other , be that the nation there value the relationship with the United Kingdom even more so over the past year . we have strong relation with the Joint Expeditionary Force nation of northern Europe , and we continue to deepen relation with our baltic friend , include enhance our forward land force in Estonia , and our co - operation and support for Latvia and Lithuania . I do not recognise that concern , but he be right to raise it , if only to allow I to put on the record that we have strong support from those nation and , indeed , we strongly support they in want to be sovereign and free , include from russian aggression . I also politely say to the hon . member that RRS Sir David Attenborough provide an important presence in the antarctic region . if he have not yet discover polar region nerdery , can I recommend that to he ? not only do HMS Protector — our ice ship — and RRS Sir David Attenborough provide an important presence for our Arctic and antarctic mission ; they also help we honour our obligation under the Antarctic treaty , which be an important part of the rule - base framework for the protection of the Antarctic . on the Arctic and HMS Protector , what plan do we have to procure an icebreaker to increase our footprint in that region ? I know he be tempt to go into polar nerdery ! I would be happy to speak to the hon . member about some of those aspect . clearly , when it come to the provision of our ship and capability , it be not just an MOD matter ; it be one that we share , in particular with our Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office colleague , but I be happy to pick up those point with he . I be not certain that the hon . member be right on everything he say on drone , but none the less , he be certainly right that drone warfare have fundamentally change how warfare be conduct . I be proud that we have a plan to return to 2 . 5 % spending on defence — a figure not meet since 2010 . we do need to spend more on defence because we live in more dangerous time . my hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) be right to speak about the sacrifice that armed force family make — it be something that we should not forget . indeed , that be the reason why in the Armed Forces Commissioner Bill , we deliberately extend the power of the commissioner to have a requirement to engage with the family member of our people who serve , which be important . I be grateful to the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) for her contribution . we do indeed have a Government who honour the service of our armed force every day , and I be proud to serve within it . she be also right to raise LGBT veteran . she will know that the prioritisation we have decide as Ministers be that the initial payment , as we stand up the system to make payment , should be direct at those who be over 80 or face a terminal condition . we have complete that work . that be the right prioritisation in the first instance , so justice can be do for those folk who may not see many more day . we be now stand up that wide system so that we can process that wide set of payment that we have commit to do , and we will continue to do so . finally , in relation to the question ask by the hon . member for Exmouth and Exeter East ( David Reed ) , the future commando force strategy publish under the last Government move away from full commando assault to small raid party . that be the extant policy of the last Government and , because of that , I would be happy to speak to he about it . we have a strong commitment to the amphibious role of the Royal Marines and to the multi - role strike ship , as set out in the strategic defence review , and I would be very happy to speak to he about that far . I have a Royal Marine base in my constituency , as he have in his — on that point , will the Minister give way ? I be afraid I have to conclude because of time , but I would be very happy to meet the hon . gentleman to discuss this far . I can reassure he that the Royal Marines have a very bright and strong future in our armed force . on that point , will the Minister give way ? oh , go on then . what the Minister say raise a more fundamental question . just like the release of the strategic defence review to trade body and to the press before its publication , we be read about issue in the press but do not have the opportunity to discuss they in Parliament . while I welcome the Minister ' s offer to have a conversation with he , why can we not have that conversation in the Chamber now ? I refer the hon . gentleman to all the debate that I call on the future of the Royal Marines under the last government , when I be sit on the Opposition Benches , to make the case that the Royal Marines have a bright future . we have a strong commitment to the future of the Royal Marines and to amphibiocity . he will know the change that his Government introduce in the future commando force strategy . if we look at the lesson from Ukraine , the Royal Marines be well ahead of the learning that we now see from there . I be happy to discuss that with he far and I be sure that he will want to table a Westminster Hall debate so that we can discuss this even more . I reassure the hon . Gentleman and the House that the future of the Royal Marines be safe and secure . we have strong commitment to amphibiocity . we need to ensure that all our fight force adapt to the change environment in which they operate . as someone who represent Stonehouse Barracks , the spiritual home of the Royal Marines , I feel personally about that commitment and I do not recognise the concern that he raise . however , I be glad that there be strong cross - party support for our armed force and for this draft order . question put and agree to . resolve , that the draft Armed Forces Act 2006 ( Continuation ) Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 9 June , be approve . Prevention and Suppression of Terrorism I beg to move , that the draft Terrorism Act 2000 ( Proscribed Organisations ) ( amendment ) Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 30 June , be approve . I be grateful to the House for its consideration of this draft order , which will see three distinct group proscribe : Maniacs Murder Cult , Palestine Action and the Russian Imperial Movement . on that point , will the Minister give way ? will the Minister give way ? I will make a bit of progress , which I do not think be unreasonable . the proscription of those three organisation will reaffirm the UK ' s zero - tolerance approach to terrorism , regardless of its form or underlie ideology . it may be helpful to set out some background to the proscription power . to proscribe an organisation , the Home Secretary must reasonably believe that it be concern in terrorism . that mean that the organisation commit or participate in terrorism , it prepare for terrorism , it promote or encourage terrorism , or it be otherwise concerned in terrorism . some 80 terrorist organisation be currently proscribe under the Terrorism Act 2000 . Proscription be , rightly , ideologically neutral : it judge an organisation on its action and the action it be willing to deploy in pursuit of its cause . the UK ' s definition of terrorism be establish in law a quarter of a century ago , and it have stand the test of time and extensive scrutiny since . on that point , will the Minister give way ? I will make a little more progress before give way . the definition have three limb . first , the use or threat of action must reach a certain level of seriousness , such as serious violence or serious damage to property . secondly , the use or threat must be design to influence a government or intimidate the public or a section of the public . thirdly , the use or threat must be make for the purpose of advance a political , religious , racial or ideological cause . successive independent reviewer of terrorism legislation have uphold the UK ' s terrorism definition as effective and fit for purpose , even as the threat from terrorism have evolve . rise — I will give way in just a moment . Proscription be one of the most powerful counter - terrorism tool available to Government . any decision to proscribe be take with great care and follow rigorous consideration , as note by Jonathan Hall KC in his report on the operation of the terrorism act of 2022 . rise — I will give way to the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) . I be grateful to the Minister . the question that many of we want to put to he be this : why have he link these three organisation together ? he clearly have make a judgment on each of the three organisation independently of each other . I and many other outside , I be sure , think it would be fair if we take individual vote on the three . many of we be very concerned about the issue face Palestine Action , and that be the issue we wish to address in the debate . I can say to the right hon . Gentleman that I will move on to that and will explain with real clarity precisely why we have proceed in the way that we have . I suspect that he have a long memory . I be sure that he will recall that he have vote against proscribe a number of organisation previously , include al - Qaeda in 2001 , when the motion be bundle along with 20 other militant organisation , so there be clear precedent for do this . the reason we seek to do it be to demonstrate that we do not attach any kind of ideological prism with which to seek to make a judgment . the Home Secretary will take a view base on a legal threshold , and that be the basis on which we have proceed . I thank the Minister for bring forward this motion . if it come to a vote , as some have indicate they wish it to do , my party will support the Government . I come from Northern Ireland , and we understand what it mean to have security . it be important to have Government , Ministers , the police , the Army , MI5 and MI6 , and they all have a responsibility . in relation to the membership of those organisation , be there a list of those who may be member of Palestine Action , for instance ? I do not know where they be — there might be some in this House ; if there be , perhaps we would understand . will they be subject to the ruling and proscription as well ? I know that the hon . Gentleman speak with great authority on these matter , bear out of his extensive experience of deal with these matter in Northern Ireland . if he be a little patient and if the House allow I to make a bit of progress , I will explain and respond to the point he have raise and the point that other hon . member seek to raise . if the House will allow , let I turn to the specific measure before we today , take each of the propose addition to the list of proscribe organisation in order . first , there be the Maniacs Murder Cult , also know as MMC , which be an insidious white - supremacist and neo - nazi organisation operate online and across border . it aim to encourage individual to engage in act of violence against people it perceive to be antisocial , include homeless people , drug addict and migrant , all to further its own ideology and degrade human society through violence . the Government assess that MMC commit , prepare for , promote and encourage act of terrorism . MMC member and leader have claim a number of violent attack globally that be commit in pursuit of the group ' s aim . MMC supply instructional material that could increase the capability or motivation of an aspire attacker , include a guide that provide information on how to fatally attack someone with a knife and use a vehicle as a weapon . MMC ' s member and non - member share its material and other online content , include video of violent attack , to encourage further violence in support of its ideology . on 22 May , a 21 - year - old georgian national know as Commander Butcher , consider to be one of MMC ' s leader , be extradite to the United States , and he be set to stand trial in New York for solicit hate crime and act of mass violence . as set out in the indictment , he be allege to have recruit individual online to promote MMC ' s ideology by commit act of murder , arson , bombing and mass poisoning in New York — act target at member of ethnic minority group , homeless people and jewish schoolchildren . as this case illustrate , MMC have a truly transnational audience , which include people in the UK . it do not matter where the leader of this network be base if they be capable of inspire act of violence and terror in any country . vulnerable individual , such as minor , be particularly expose to the horrific material MMC publish and distribute online . this government will not stand by and allow the terrorist threat and wide societal harm cause by MMC to persist . proscribe MMC be key to deter and divert individual from engage with its violent content , and it send a clear signal to social medium company to remove MMC ' s material from their platform . the threat pose by MMC must be take extremely seriously , whether it be inspiring act of violence against our people or influence young people to commit those act . we will not hesitate to take action against such group to keep our country safe . I agree with the Minister that MMC clearly meet the threshold for proscription , but when do its action first come to the attention of the government ? why have they leave it so long to bring forward this order ? why do they leave it until it be politically convenient ? I be sorry that the hon . Gentleman have choose to make that final point . there be no political convenience in what we be seek to do today . we be seek to ensure the security of our country , and if he have a little patience , I will far make that case to he and to the House . let I turn to Palestine Action . the public attention it have garner should not be confuse with legitimacy , nor should a group form five year ago be conflate with the legitimate campaign for palestinian right and statehood , which have exist in our country and in this House for more than five decade . let I be clear : the proscription of Palestine Action be not aim at ban protest that support Palestine . there be many way in which people can continue to lawfully express their support for Palestine without be a member or supporter of Palestine Action . the Minister will be aware that the High Court have grant Palestine Action permission for a legal challenge . rather than the Home Secretary , who be not here , rush this order through Parliament , should it not be delay until the judicial process have conclude ? we be certainly not seek to rush this through Parliament ; these be matter that the Home Secretary and I have consider for some time . there be a clear route to legal challenge , and if an organisation be proscribe , it have the opportunity to pursue that route . that be entirely within the right of any organisation that be proscribe , and be a matter for they . let I make the important point that freedom of expression and assembly be cornerstone of our democracy . they be fundamental right , and this Government will always respect and protect they . we will always defend the right of the british people to engage in legitimate and peaceful protest , and to stand up for the cause in which they believe . I often show visitor the statue of Viscount Falkland and its missing spur , remove when a suffragette chain herself to it . I be here when protester superglue their buttock to the glass panel above we , cause some scandal and damage . will the Minister confirm that criminal damage , no matter how creatively or indeed scandalously undertake , will always be deal with under criminal law , and not as a terrorist act ? I know that my hon . friend have give this matter serious consideration , and she make an interesting point . in my remark , I will seek to evidence to she and other why we have choose to take this course of action on this group . I hope that when I have make my speech , she will understand why we be proceed in this way . I be just make a point about the importance of the right to protest . essential as such right be , they do not give this group carte blanche to seriously damage property or subject member of the public to fear and violence . the Minister will be aware that many of we in this Chamber think that Palestine Action be in a different category from the other two organisation that he be seek to proscribe . be he aware that several UN special rapporteur , include those protect human right , say that they have tell the UK Government that " act of protest that damage property , but be not intend to kill or injure people , should not be treat as terrorism " ? I be grateful to the Mother of the House , because she make an important point . before I respond to it , let I say politely and gently to she and other that my strong sense be that if the action of the group that we be consider have be conduct by an organisation with different ideological motive , she and some of her colleague would strongly recommend that the Government proscribe they . [ interruption . ] that is , I be afraid , the conclusion I have arrive at . my right hon . Friend mention the United Nations . the Government receive a letter from the UN special procedure mandate holder at the end of 2024 , and the UK Government provide a full response , which have be publish . I gently say to she that national security and keep the public safe be very much matter for this country , not other organisation . this heavy - handed approach threaten basic freedom and set a dangerous precedent for all political dissent in the UK . do the Minister acknowledge that ? I do not acknowledge that , and I do not accept the hon . Gentleman ' s characterisation of the decision we have take . if he will listen to what I have to say , I hope he will understand why we be progress in this way . the attack at Brize Norton on 20 June have understandably provoke shock and anger in this House and across the country , but it be just the late episode in Palestine Action ' s long history of harmful activity . it have orchestrate a nationwide campaign of attack that have result in serious damage to property and cross the threshold between direct criminal action and terrorism . I hope that go some way to respond to the point that my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West ( Dame Chi Onwurah ) make . Palestine Action member have use violence against people respond at the scene of attack . for their role in co - ordinate attack , member of the organisation have be charge with serious offence , include violent disorder , grievous bodily harm with intent and aggravate burglary , which be an offence involve a weapon . I thank the Minister for give way , and for some of the thing that he have say . everything he have speak about could be deal with under criminal law . my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West ( Dame Chi Onwurah ) mention the suffragette . I think we need to give the context of a little bit of history . the suffragette carry out a campaign of window - smashing , poster and paint defacement , cut telegraph and railway line and target bombing and arson , but specifically avoid harm people . there be a long history in this country of direct action that push the boundary of our democracy . it be very difficult for all of we , but this be still direct action , not terrorist action . I acknowledge my hon . friend ' s point about history , and it be entirely reasonable context for he and other to raise , but ultimately this Government must respond to event take place in the here and now . the Government have to make sometimes difficult decision about what measure be require to keep the public safe . he be absolutely within his right to make comparison with other group , but as I will explain , fundamentally the Home Secretary have to take a view on whether a legal threshold have be cross , and if it have , she have to make a judgment on whether she wish to proceed . will the Minister give way ? I must make a bit of progress , because I still have some way to go . despite some of its rhetoric , the group ' s own material state that it be not non - violent , and that be echo in the action of its member , who have commit atrocious attack . have carefully consider all the evidence , the Home Secretary have conclude that Palestine Action be concern in terrorism and should be proscribe . the House will understand that I be unable to comment on specific intelligence or to go into detail about incident that be sub judice . however , I can provide a summary of the group ' s activity , and it be right that I make the position clear to the House . since its inception in 2020 , Palestine Action have orchestrate and enact a campaign of direct criminal action against business and institution , include key national infrastructure and defence firm that provide service and supply that support Ukraine , NATO , our five Eyes ally and the UK defence industry . over time , and most notably since the start of 2024 , Palestine Action ' s activity have increase in frequency and severity . its target have broaden to include financial firm , charity , university and Government building . its method have become more aggressive , with its member demonstrate a willingness to use violence . will the Minister give way ? I will , but I must then make some progress . the Minister have speak about some of the history of this , but there be more recent history . the last Government introduce the Public Order Act 2023 to deal with Extinction Rebellion . the Home Secretary , who be then on the Opposition Front Bench , list all the various crime that could be deal with . she say then : " the Government be extend power that we would normally make available just for serious violence and terrorism to peaceful protest . Police officer themselves have say that this be , ' a severe restriction on a person ' s right to protest and in reality , be unworkable ' . " — [ Official Report , 23 May 2022 ; Vol . 715 , c . 63 . ] she be right then , and be wrong today , be she not ? I will make a bit of progress , because I hope to answer some of the point that the right hon . Gentleman — [ interruption . ] I be about to explain to he that specific recent incident have inform the decision . I understand why he may not want to listen to that , but I invite he to do so , because the context be very important . will the Minister give way ? no , I will make some progress now . Palestine Action ' s own material state " we be not non - violent and we have specific target " . the group have a footprint in all 45 police region in the UK , and have pledge to escalate its campaign . this disgraceful pattern of activity can not be allow to continue . in apply the legislative framework , the Government assess that Palestine Action commit act of terrorism . in several attack — will the Minister give way ? I will not give way , because I need to get these important point on the record . Palestine Action have commit act of serious damage to property , with the aim of progress its political cause and intimidate and influence the public and the Government . these include attack against Thales in Glasgow in 2022 and against Instro Precision in Kent and Elbit Systems UK in Bristol last year . in such attack , Palestine Action member have force entry on to premise while arm with a variety of weapon , and damage or demolish property , cause million of pound ' worth of criminal damage . as the House have hear , Palestine Action member have use violence against people respond at the scene . during Palestine Action ' s attack against the Thales defence factory in Glasgow in 2022 , the group cause over £ 1 million - worth of damage , include to part that be essential for our submarine . Palestine Action cause panic among staff , who fear for their safety as pyrotechnic and smoke bomb be throw into the area to which they be evacuate . when pass custodial sentence for the perpetrator , the sheriff say : " throw pyrotechnic at area where people be be evacuate to can not be describe as non - violent . " the Government also assess that Palestine Action prepare for terrorism . the organisation have provide practical advice to assist its member in carry out significant level of property damage at target right across the UK . for example , Palestine Action have release an underground manual that encourage its member to create small group or cell and provide guidance about how to conduct activity against private company and Government building . it explain how to operate covertly to evade arrest and provide a link to a website , also create by Palestine Action , which contain a map of target location across the UK . the Government assess that Palestine Action promote and encourage terrorism , include through the glorification on social medium of its attack involve property damage . Palestine Action ' s attack be not victimless crime ; employee have experience physical violence , intimidation and harassment , and they have be prevent from enter their place of work . we would not tolerate this activity from organisation motivate by islamist or extreme right - wing ideology , and we can not tolerate it from Palestine Action . by implement this measure , we will remove Palestine Action ' s veil of legitimacy , tackle its financial support , and degrade its effort to recruit and radicalise people into commit terrorist activity in its name . we must be under no illusion : Palestine Action be not a legitimate protest group . People engage in lawful protest do not need weapon . People engage in lawful protest do not throw smoke bomb and fire pyrotechnic around innocent member of the public . and people engage in lawful protest do not cause million of pound ' worth of damage to national security infrastructure , include submarine and defence equipment for NATO . Proscribing Palestine Action will not impinge the right to protest . People have always be able to protest lawfully or express support for Palestine , and they can continue to do so . I be conscious of the time , so I will briefly turn to the Russian Imperial Movement . RIM be a white supremacist ethno - nationalist organisation that seek to create a new russian imperial state . the method that RIM use to try to achieve those aim threaten UK , Euro - Atlantic and wide international security and prosperity . RIM conduct combat activity via its paramilitary unit , the Russian Imperial Legion , and have actively fight alongside russian force and other pro - russian right - wing extremist group in the ongoing Russia - Ukraine conflict . in do so , the Government assess that it have commit or participate in act of terrorism . RIM also prepare for terrorism . it manage a paramilitary training programme know as Partisan , which increase the capability of attendee to conduct terrorist attack . by proscribe rim , the UK will reinforce our steadfast support for Ukraine ' s resistance to russian aggression and our commitment to counter future threat from extreme right - wing terrorism in the UK and Europe . almost two year ago , it be my task on behalf of what be then his Majesty ' s opposition to strongly support the action take to proscribe the Wagner Group , an organisation that rightly stand condemn for its act of indiscriminate violence and terror in Ukraine and elsewhere . I hope the whole House will be as united today as it be on that occasion in endorse the action take against the Russian Imperial Movement . to conclude , the first duty of Government be to keep our country safe . when our collective security and our value be threaten , we will not hesitate to act . today ' s proscription will send a clear and unambiguous message that this Parliament stand against terrorism however and wherever it manifest itself . only in apply the UK ' s counter - terrorism framework without bias can we maintain confidence in it . I therefore urge member to support these proscription , and I commend the order to the House . rise — order . member will have note from the Order Paper that this debate be only 90 minute long — it have to conclude at 5 . 27 pm — which mean back Benchers will be on a speak limit of four minute to begin with and that only a few will get in before the debate have to conclude . I call the shadow Minister . I be grateful to the Minister for his speech and for bring this important and very necessary measure to the House . I also thank he for the briefing I be provide with early today . let we be clear what these measure be and be not about . do we support free speech ? yes . do we support the right to protest ? yes . do we support freedom of expression ? yes . however , the very freedom that make our democracy what it be be exactly the freedom that the group we be consider be put at risk , which be why this order be need . the group we be discuss — Palestine Action , Maniacs Murder Cult and the Russian Imperial Movement — have nothing whatsoever to do with legitimate protest . they would not be face proscription if they be demonstrate peacefully , respectfully or legally , as so many group and organisation across the country do and must continue to be able to do freely . these group have choose a different path entirely , and for that reason this action be rightly be take against they . do the shadow Minister agree with I that , if the only acceptable form of protest be polite protest , that be not protest , but permission ? the right to protest be a hugely important part of our democracy . we support the right to protest and the right to free speech . we do not support a right to commit criminal damage or to intimidate or threaten the public , but that be exactly what these group be do and why they be quite rightly be proscribe . we must be clear - eyed about the broad threat landscape we face . Terrorism remain one of the most serious threat to our national security . whether it come from international network , those radicalise online or extremist group operate on our soil , the threat be real and evolve and it must demand our constant vigilance . our security service work tirelessly day and night to keep we safe . they have disrupt countless plot that the public will never know about , but we can not be complacent . the nature of terrorism have change — from sophisticated network to lone actor , from physical attack to attack on cyber network , and from foreign battlefield to our own community — and our response must evolve accordingly . we should reflect on what terrorism be . as define by the Terrorism Act 2000 , it occur when an action ' s " use or threat be design to influence the government … or to intimidate the public or a section of the public , and … the use or threat be make for the purpose of advance a political , religious , racial or ideological cause . " the full list of action be detail in the Act , but they include serious violence against a person , those that endanger life or health and safety , and those that seriously damage property . Proscription be not a step take lightly , but it be a strong and necessary tool that the previous as well as the current Government have use and should use to protect the public , and to ensure that our police and security service have full access to the resource they need to keep the public , our institution and our way of life safe . no one could hear the Minister ' s description of the action of Palestine Action , MMR and RIM and consider they to be those of peaceful , legitimate protest group . do the shadow Minister accept that there be a distinction in intent between Palestine Action and the other two organisation ? there be no intention with Palestine Action to cause injury to people , so matter can already be deal with in the criminal court . I thank the hon . member for that , but if Palestine Action be use pyrotechnic against people who be escape an attack by that organisation , that be intent . if it intend to damage Royal Air Force property and Ministry of Defence property by sabotage RAF jet at Brize Norton , that be intent . it be show intent as well as the other organisation . these group do not share our value . they do not respect our country . they do not care about our way of life and they show no regard for the safety of our citizen . on the conservative Benches , we be proud of the action take by previous conservative government to strengthen our counter - terrorism framework . we give our police and security service the power they need to confront evolving threat , and we welcome and support the Home Secretary make use of the same power today . as the Minister say , proscription be a vital tool and a strong deterrent , but it be only a part — albeit a very important part — of what we need to do to keep our country safe . on its own , it be not enough . it must be follow by enforcement . we will , of course , be watch closely to ensure the police have the resource and the backing they need from the Labour Government to do just that . as the Minister and I have say , the first job of any Government be to keep their citizen safe . we , as the official Opposition , will always support the Government in that aim . the activity of these organisation have clearly meet the threshold for proscription under the Terrorism Act , and we on the Opposition Benches be very happy to support the Government in their aim today . I want to speak specifically about Palestine Action . it be most regrettable that the Government have table one order ban three organisation , when it know that there be political disagreement on Palestine Action . that be no way to bring terror legislation to the House . I want to be clear and to put on the record that I would be support the order today if it refer only to the organisation Maniacs Murder Cult and the Russian Imperial Movement . lead legal and human right organisation Amnesty International and Liberty have condemn the proscription of Palestine Action . Liberty say : " target a protest group with terrorism power be a shocking escalation of the Government ' s crackdown on protest . . . this move would be a huge step change in how counter - terror law be apply . " Amnesty International UK say : " we ' re deeply concerned at the use of counter - terrorism power to target protest group . . . they certainly shouldn ' t be use to ban they . " they both urge the Home Secretary to rethink before bring this to Parliament . yesterday , several United Nations special rapporteur , include those for protect human right while counter terrorism and for promote freedom of expression , say they have contact the UK Government to say that " act of protest that damage property , but be not intend to kill or injure people , should not be treat as terrorism " . likewise , Lord Charlie Falconer , the former Justice Minister , state that the " sort of demonstration " see at a military base by Palestine Action would not justify proscription as a terrorist organisation . today , we be not vote on whether people agree with Palestine Action ' s tactic ; we be not vote on whether people think its aim be right or wrong . we be vote on whether the action it have take against property , not against people , should lead to its being treat as a terrorist organisation , when what it have do can be prosecute as criminal damage . there be a long history of protest activity include act of trespass , criminal damage , sabotage and more . indeed , the Home Secretary ' s recent statement repeatedly refer to criminal damage and the live court case , show that there be already legal provision to deal with Palestine Action . there be a variety of potential consequence if the proscription of Palestine Action be pass . support or join Palestine Action could carry up to 14 year in prison . that risk criminalise thousand of volunteer and supporter . thousand have support or volunteer with Palestine Action , include nurse , student , retiree and professional . many have never engage in direct action , but risk be criminalise . today , I meet representative of Amnesty International who offer a number of frightening example of how our constituent could be place at risk of prosecution under section 12 of the Terrorism Act and could face a maximum sentence of 14 year if Palestine Action be proscribe . accord to Amnesty International , a person who tweet , " I oppose the war crime in Gaza and I think that Palestine Action have a point , " could easily fall foul of this provision , as could a person who say to another , " I do not support all the method use by Palestine Action , but I think protest be important and I respect the personal sacrifice member of Palestine Action be willing to make , risk arrest to challenge war crime , " or an individual with a placard that read , " Palestine Action be peaceful — it should be de - proscribe . " this legislation could affect constituent who have never be a member of Palestine Action and who have never and would never commit direct action . speech or comment they make in community meeting could be trawl , and they could end up face legal proceeding result in a prison sentence of up to 14 year . that concern we all . People out there view terrorism as mean heinous act such as shoot people , blow people up , assassinate people and other act of violence . I urge colleague to consider the consequence for their constituent of proscribe Palestine Action alongside these other group . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I be grateful to the Minister for take the time to discuss this issue with I . as have be mention , there be three organisation list today , and the order before we be unamendable . take each of the three organisation in turn , the Russian Imperial Movement be an ultranationalist and white supremacist militant organisation operate from inside Russia . the group have be proscribe by both the United States and Canada , and even the russian Government have blacklist many of the group ' s publication and activity . the rationale and justification for proscription be clear , and we be content to support it . the Maniacs Murder Cult be similarly destructive , drive by a belief that society must be violently destabilise so that a new neo - nazi or white supremacist order can rise from its ashe . it promote random act of violence include murder , assault and bombing as a deliberate tactic to instil fear and chaos . the rationale and justification for proscription be clear , and we be content to support it . the question for many member today relate to Palestine Action . on 20 June , as have be widely report in the press , two member of Palestine Action gain unauthorised access to RAF Brize Norton in Oxfordshire , the UK ' s large airbase , circumvent perimeter security under cover of darkness . once inside , they target two aircraft . incident involve member of Palestine Action include attack at site operate by Elbit Systems in Bristol in 2024 and again this year , as well as at a Thales UK facility in Glasgow in 2022 . I note the Minister ' s comment about case currently go through the court . no matter how strongly any of we feel about the appalling humanitarian crisis in Gaza — and many of we across this House and across the country feel very strongly indeed — that do not justify attack on military basis in Britain . those responsible must face the full force of the law ; there be no doubt about that . however , those law already exist , and that be not what be in front of mps today . the question we face be not whether or not these people have commit crime , but whether someone who merely express support for they should face up to 14 year in jail . the bar for which group should be proscribe as terrorist organisation be rightly set very high . it be crucial that the reason for these decision be transparent to maintain the public ' s trust in our counter - terrorism framework . I have listen carefully both to expert who have raise concern , include those from the UN who be mention by the Mother of the House , and to what the Minister have say . I have also see the Home Secretary ' s word about her reason for make this decision base on damage to property , notwithstanding the Minister ' s comment on the use of violence . proscribe an organisation solely on the ground of serious damage to property would , I believe , be unprecedented . to date — I would welcome the Minister correct I if I have get this wrong — no organisation have be proscribe in the UK exclusively for property damage , as be the case here , accord to the Home Secretary ' s word on the Government website . while there may be compelling legal argument that the action of Palestine Action have meet the legal definition of terrorism in term of serious criminal damage , the decision to proscribe be ultimately make at the Home Secretary ' s discretion . there be still question as to whether that discretion be proportionate in this case , give the level of threat pose to the general public . I would welcome more detail from the Minister on why he believe this be a proportionate response , as I remain to be convince . currently the maximum custodial term for certain offence relate to membership of , or express support for , a proscribe terrorist organisation be 14 year . yet in instance such as this , where action , though criminal and damaging , may not pose the same imminent threat to life , a blanket application of such severe penalty risk be disproportionate . the Home Secretary rightly have substantial power to take action to keep our country safe , but it be also right and entirely proper that we scrutinise the use of these power and press the Government to ensure that any use of they be wholly proportionate . twenty - one year ago , a human right barrister stand in court and defend an activist who break into RAF Fairford try to disable a bomber to prevent war crime in Iraq . that become a landmark case in lawful , non - violent direct action against an illegal war . that barrister be now our Prime Minister , Sir Keir Starmer KC . he argue that it be not terrorism but conscience . fast - forward to 20 June 2025 : two Palestine Action activist enter RAF Brize Norton and spray red paint — red paint , not fire — on aircraft link to surveillance flight over Gaza . instead of prosecute they for criminal damage , which be what normally be do , the Home Secretary be use the Terrorism Act 2000 to proscribe Palestine Action as a terrorist group . this be an unprecedented and dangerous overreach of the state . never before in Britain have it be a crime to simply support a group . this order lump a non - violent network of student , nurse , teacher , firefighter and peace campaigner — ordinary people , my constituent and yours — with neo - nazi militia and mass - casualty cult . Palestine Action ' s real crime be , we have to be clear , shut down Elbit Systems site that arm the israeli military ; its true offence be be audacious enough to expose the blood - soak tie between this Government and the genocidal israeli apartheid state and its war machine . let we be clear : to equate a spray can of paint with a suicide bomb be not just absurd ; it be grotesque . it be a deliberate distortion of the law to chill dissent , criminalise solidarity and suppress the truth . Amnesty international , Liberty , over 266 senior lawyer and UN special rapporteur have all oppose these draconian measure . even at this late stage , the order should be withdraw . under this order , anyone express moral support for a proscribe group could face 14 year in prison . that include wear a badge , wear a t - shirt , share a post or call for de - proscription . and journalist have no exemption either : there be no legal protection for report favourably , even factually , about Palestine Action . by this weekend , million of people , include many of our constituent , could be place under these sweeping restriction . let we not forget what be happen in Gaza , where the real crime be be ignore : hospital bomb , child starve , and ten of thousand of people kill . palestinian child now suffer more amputation per capita than child anywhere else on earth . Israel be on trial for genocide at the International Court of Justice and the israeli Prime Minister face an International Criminal Court arrest warrant , yet the Government ' s response be to criminalise solidarity and to continue export lethal F - 35 jet that be decimate Gaza . we also have to understand the history of this country and what build our democracy : the tradition of civil disobedience that include the suffragette , without whom I would not have the vote , let alone the privilege of be here as an MP . even those who oppose Palestine Action ' s tactic must recognise the vast gulf between criminal damage and terrorism . if this order pass , what and who be next — climate protester , strike worker , feminist in the street ? already we have see a wide crackdown on our civil liberty — musician censor , journalist arrest , and demonstrator , include mp sit here , harass — and now this Government want to use anti - terror law to make peaceful protest itself a crime . if our democratic institution function as they should , none of this would be necessary . to conclude , if this proscription pass , as it will , we have to understand that no campaign will be safe tomorrow . we have to recognise that this will go down as a dark day in our country ' s history and one that will be remember : people will ask , " which side be you on ? " and I stand with the million of people who oppose genocide , because I be one of they . I oppose the blood - soak hand of this Government try to silence we . so I say this loudly and proudly on Wednesday 2 July 2025 — Order . I call Sir Iain Duncan Smith . I do have concern about the last of the three organisation cover by the order , in relation to the application of the criminal law . there might be another way of do it , but I support the Government ' s position . however , this debate have cast into light the fact that we have take no action to proscribe the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps . give all the element that we be discuss today , this question sit like the elephant in the room : why be we not proscribe the irgc ? why have we resist do that ? that would have a huge impact on terrorism , or aspect of terrorism . let we look at it carefully . the irgc deliberately export the islamic revolution . it use proxy and have be sponsor terrorism — as have be demonstrate without dispute all over the world . it support Hamas and Hezbollah and have supply they with huge amount of weapon . on whichever side of the argument one sit , the fact be that this terrible killing would not have happen have that not be the case . the irgc be heavily involve in that . it be sanction but not proscribe . Sanctioning do not give we enough power to deal with its proxy and those who work for it . when in opposition , the Government campaign to proscribe the irgc . I remember quite happily work with various member who be then on the Opposition Front Bench to do that . the Foreign Office endlessly say that we would lose all possibility of form diplomatic relation or get through to Iran , but how be that go ? how have that go over the past year ? not at all well . one can not reason with these character . a huge number of global attack be root in IRGC money and training . it have high level of activity in the UK , such as propaganda to try to build arrangement here , sometimes in plain view — there be even link on Facebook . it could be trap , but it do it openly because nothing can be do to it at all . of course , the IRGC support Hezbollah , which be also proscribe . if we keep follow this chain around and around , we come back to the irgc . that should be the subject of the debate today . that should be the decision . that should be consider on the Floor of the House . the irgc should be proscribe , because it be at the root of all terrorism that exist here and in the middle east . if we do not do that , it prompt the question of what we be do here with these other three organisation . let I first associate myself with the very good comment of the liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) . I agree with the proscription of the two far - right fascist organisation — I think they should be proscribe — but can we as a House accept that there be those of we present who have a different take on today ' s proscription of Palestine Action ? we do not have to agree with the behaviour or action of Palestine Action to make the case today that this proscription be wrong . I ask hon . member to acknowledge that the many of we here today who take a different view on this issue be as much a part of this democracy as those who agree with the proscription . it be just that our take on the delicacy of our democracy , on what this proscription do and on how it undermine our democracy happen to differ from that of other people . there be Opposition Members who have repeatedly say that they understand and empathise with constituent who have smash and vandalise ultra low emission zone camera and low emission zone camera . direct action be not just of the left ; everyone in our democracy can partake in it . this be a judgment call about how we well protect our democracy and an acknowledgment that not all threat be external or violent . some threat be base on the decision that we take in this place . sometimes , we might take decision that fundamentally undermine our own democracy . I have no doubt that some of we will be call terrorist sympathiser by some who disagree with our position , but that would be wrong . look around the world and watch as democracy and the rule of law be systematically smash . corporation and the wealthy have increase power and wealth to influence our democracy . look over the Atlantic at the United States . our democracy be delicate ; our democracy be precious . the decision we take in this place determine whether those democracy will survive into the future . I look around the world and around this country — I look at the authoritarian right party that be 10 point ahead in the poll — and I worry about the future of our democracy . this government — our government — have to make decision that take account of the possibility that we might not be in government one day . it may be the authoritarian right who be in government , and they will take this far , fast and deep than we ever have , so we should be put in fireguard now , protect our democracy , and this measure do not do that . in conclusion , I understand what terrorism be . I be in London on 7 July 2005 and I watch my community — this city — attack by real terrorist . at that point , rightly or wrongly , I decide that I be go to Afghanistan to fight the terrorist . I go because I love this country and I love our democracy and I want to see it protect . today ' s proscription order against Palestine Action undermine that , and I wish that my Government be not do this . as we have hear , the issue around the proscription of Palestine Action have throw up a number of legitimate concern . there be no doubt that it will have an impact on our right to protest and on the civil liberty that we have enjoy for decade . although it be absolutely right to condemn and prosecute criminal activity , especially those that threaten our national security , surely this must be do within the framework of exist legislation , as it always have be . this order look nothing other than a direct response to Palestine Action be able to infiltrate an RAF base and cause damage to a defence aircraft . the decision to proscribe an organisation be ultimately a matter for the Government , and it be up to the Home Secretary to decide who go on that list . it be base on intelligence that the Government hold . I do not think that the Minister have convince many of we today that this have meet the threshold for proscription , and we need to hear more about their concern about this particular group . before reach for that power , the Government must take into account whether it be proportionate , justify and in the national interest to proscribe such an organisation . terrorism legislation , as we know , hand extremely broad power to the state and , as such , it must always be treat with the high degree of caution and restraint . we live in a society where group and organisation have the democratic right to campaign and express their view on particular issue in a democratic , respectful and lawful manner . it be important that the right to lawful protest be not affect by the Home Secretary ' s decision today , and it be extremely concern that this decision could lead to these power be extend to other campaigning organisation . Palestine Action have inexplicably be link to group such as the Maniacs Murder Cult and the Russian Imperial Movement — group unknown to the House until this measure be on the Order Paper today , but they be group that , from a cursory glance at their activity , should of course be proscribe . for Palestine Action to be include alongside those group be , at good , a cynical and calculated move by the Government to ensure that this order get through today . People all over the UK , include many of my constituent , rightly feel very strongly about the appalling crime that be be commit against innocent civilian in Gaza on a daily basis . many of those people have be take part in weekly protest to make their voice hear , and to show solidarity with the palestinian people . these people be now concerned that they might be catch up in this proscription . I be also concerned that many young people who be share social medium post from Palestine Action could now be consider to have glorify what will soon be a proscribe group . we need clarity on what action would result in people be charge under this terrorism legislation . for example , could a person wear a Palestine Action badge hand out at a demonstration or a rally be charge with terrorism ? organisation such as Amnesty International and even the United Nations have express their concern about the UK ' s broad definition of terrorism in this regard . this week , an israeli strike on a Gaza seafront caf é kill at least 20 Palestinians . this be what we should be discuss today and every day until a permanent ceasefire be reach and all the hostage be release . the Government must act in the national interest and keep we safe from all the challenge present to they , but we need clear reassurance about the wide impact of what be propose . I welcome the Home Secretary ' s decisive action on Palestine Action , the Maniacs Murder Cult and the Russian Imperial Movement . twenty month on from the horrific terror attack of 7 October , the suffering of innocent people in Gaza , in Israel and beyond have rightly be the subject of much international campaigning . money have be raise to support charity get aid into Gaza , the hostage and miss family forum have work tirelessly to keep the plight of the 50 remain hostage on the world ' s agenda , and hundred of thousand of people have contact their mp , sign petition and make their voice hear . that be all genuine activism , which be , importantly , within the bound of the law . Palestine Action be different . over five year , it have conduct a campaign of violence , intimidation and criminal damage . in one attack on a business in Bristol , two police officer be attack with a sledgehammer . the officer find not only sledgehammer but whip , axis and other home - make weapon . Palestine Action have attack a business in my constituency , intimidate the worker there . last month , at RAF Brize Norton , military plane be vandalise and £ 30 million of damage be do . such attack undermine our national security and our armed force . they can never be justify . I applaud the Home Secretary for respond in the strong possible term . Palestine Action also have a track record of attack against the country ' s jewish community . in May , a building housing jewish - own business in north Manchester be vandalise with red paint and graffiti read " Happy Nakba Day " . later that month , a jewish - own business in Stamford Hill be attack by the organisation , with window break , red paint graffiti , and damage do to the building ' s mezuzah . in the latter case , Palestine Action ' s claim that the business be link to israeli defence company prove baseless . this campaign of antisemitic harassment reveal the logical conclusion of its extremism . the important difference between it and all the other group mention in the House be that it target a specific ethnic and religious minority in our country . this extremism do not help a single palestinian . smash window will not free Palestine , but it undermine the hard work of so many people who support the palestinian cause and be work towards a peaceful future , and it lead to an environment where british Jews feel unsafe and harass . that should never be tolerate . legitimate protest be a fundamental democratic freedom , but palestinian Action abandon legitimate action a long time ago . I welcome the Government ' s swift action in ensure that that organisation can no long pose a threat to our security , to our business and to the jewish community . as the debate open , I intervene on the Minister , and I be grateful to he for give way . I just need an explanation — I hope that we will get one — as to why group be always put together in these order and not deal with separately . there be clearly different order of concern here . I want to speak solely about Palestine Action . we live in a democratic society , and we have to understand where our right have come from . the hon . member for High Peak ( Jon Pearce ) represent the place where in 1932 the mass trespass take place , lead by Benny Rothman — a jewish activist in the Communist party at that time — who be demand right of access to the countryside . he be roundly condemn by all the mass medium and the Government of the day , he be put on trial and he be put in prison . he be eventually release from prison after mass protest in his support . without Benny Rothman and those other , that access to the countryside simply would not have happen at that time . we can look at all the other people who over decade of our history have stand up for free speech and democracy . we can go back to the Chartists , to the suffragette and to those who campaign to end apartheid in South Africa . interestingly , during all the apartheid year , while the British Government do condemn the African National Congress and do indeed believe for a while that Nelson Mandela be a terrorist , they never ban the ANC in Britain , because they be advise that it be important that there should be a place where people could express that voice of hope for the end of apartheid . the woman who go to Greenham Common to protest about the deployment of nuclear weapon there be never label as terrorist either . yes , they be charge with criminal trespass , as many other have be . indeed , those who undertake direct action be well aware of the risk they take . however , it cross an enormous threshold to suddenly make such an announcement about Palestine Action , which speak out against the horror of what be happen in Gaza , where hundred be mow down every day by the Israel Defence Forces simply for queue for food when they be desperately hungry and their child be starve . surely we should be look at the issue that Palestine Action be concern about , as well as the supply of weapon from this country to Israel , which have make all that possible . if the order go through today , it will have a chilling effect on protest . I quote a letter send to the Home Secretary on 28 June : " direct action be a longstanding and respected part of british political history . from the suffragette chain themselves to railing , to strike miner , to anti - apartheid campaigner occupy institution and disrupt trade , civil disobedience and direct action have always be necessary force for progress and justice . " will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not . that letter come from Bibi Khan , the chair of North London Council of Mosques , and Muhammad Uddin from Newham Muslim Forum , on behalf of the London council of mosque that be concerned about the chilling effect that this piece of legislation , if agree today , will have on the right to protest as a whole . my last point — I hope the Minister can reply to this if he get the chance — be that legal action be be take . there will be a hearing in the High Court this Friday about judicial review of this case . can it be make clear that the order will not be put into force until all legal avenue have be exhaust and that there will not be a temporary imposition , later to be withdraw if there be successful legal action ? we need to know that all democratic avenue have be fully explore in this process . today ' s push to proscribe Palestine Action , a non - violent direct action group , as a terrorist organisation be a disastrous turning point of historic proportion . it risk undermine exist prosecution case against activity by Palestine action activist and be legally dubious . human and civil right organisation , lawyer and UN expert have all speak out against the misuse of terrorism law , call the move unjustified and warn of a chilling effect on protest and advocacy generally , especially in relation to the defence of human right and international law in Palestine . we have already see the chilling effect on protest . Palestine Solidarity Campaign have be prevent from protest outside Parliament this evening , with police place restriction on the demo and push it far down Whitehall . for hundred of year , protest outside Parliament have go ahead . limit dissent in this way should concern we all , and we have see that in the last couple of week in relation to the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill , abortion and the empty welfare cut . the question that member of this House must ask ourselves today be whether non - violent political group should ever be designate as a terror threat . if Palestine Action be proscribe this week — will she give way ? no , I will not . by the weekend , anyone with a branded t - shirt or bag could face a terrorism charge . Amnesty International have flag that if Palestine Action be proscribe this week , even meet their lawyer to discuss intervene in judicial review proceeding could see its member fall foul of counter - terror legislation . those be all example of potential ground for prosecution under counter - terrorism law if Palestine Action be proscribe , which could come to constituent who be not member of the organisation and have never engage in direct action . the scope of what we be talk about be insanely broad . will the Government really demand that we vote to criminalise our constituent in that way ? Proscribing Palestine Action today would set a dangerous precedent for future Government misuse of counter - terror law . it would be the first group proscribe mainly for serious damage to property and the first proscribe direct action group . Proscription be neither necessary nor proportionate . we already have sufficient criminal legislation that have always deal with this when necessary and the Home Secretary have provide no impact assessment as " no , or no significant , impact on the private , voluntary or public sector be foresee . " however , we have receive no reassurance about how the proportionality test have be apply or whether unintended impact on the wide pro - Palestine movement be consider by the Home Office and the proscription review group . indeed , we have hear from civil right group that there have allegedly be meeting with representative from the israeli Government and arm company such as Elbit , but none with human right group . whether or not member of this House debating and voting on this statutory instrument today agree with the method or aim of Palestine Action , we should all be able to agree that lump Palestine Action together with the other two obscure group to ensure that it be proscribe be a disgraceful manipulation of parliamentary procedure . search Hansard , I see that neither of the other two group have be mention , as they be so obscure . this manoeuvre be transparent , and it show that the Government know just how shaky this proscription be . today they come for Palestine Action . if this measure be pass today , who and what will be next ? I look forward to the Minister answer the concern we have raise , particularly about the three organisation be group together . let I start by put on record that I know at least two people who have participate in Palestine Action protest , but that be not why I be speak today . this be about fundamental principle . this be a chilling moment for british democracy . let we be clear about what be happen : a political protest group be be silence . be it not hugely ironic that this be be do today , give that this morning , hundred of woman mp , include the Home Secretary , celebrate in Westminster Hall the 97th anniversary of equal vote for woman — a victory win by the suffragette , a direct action protest group ? I have three key point . first , it be a clear overreach to conflate direct action with terrorism . secondly , this will have a chilling effect on the democratic right to free speech and protest . thirdly , it be utterly cynical of the Government to wrap up the proscription of Palestine Action with the proscription of two other clearly terrorist group . the Terrorism Act 2000 make it clear that strict proportionality and necessity test must be meet before any group be proscribe , but this decision on Palestine Action be not necessary or proportionate . as Amnesty International and other have make clear , there be ample criminal law that can be use to respond to a direct action protest network such as Palestine Action . it may have engage in criminal damage ; its supporter may break into airbase ; it may have be charge with offence such as violent disorder and aggravate burglary ; and it may have carry out action that I absolutely do not condone — indeed , I condemn the attack on property in Stamford Hill , which may understandably have stir up genuine fear , and I find the word speak by one of its co - founder at a rally in the aftermath of the 7 October Hamas attack absolutely horrific — but that do not make Palestine action terrorist . that bar be , and should be , extremely high . it be commonly understand internationally to involve the use or threat of violence against civilian to instil fear , whereas the stated aim of Palestine Action be to prevent war crime , crime against humanity and genocide . it be not just the member and supporter of Palestine Action who be be silence but , by association , million of member of the public . this proscription represent a grave risk to the free speech and protest right of those who be rightly concerned that a genocide be happen in Gaza on this Government ' s watch . million of people in this country be active , whether online or in their community , in campaign to end the UK ' s complicity in that genocide . there be a clear risk that proscribe Palestine Action will criminalise people who , for example , share a social media post , and there be potential for imprisonment for up to 14 year . this proscription interfere with the fundamental right of member of the public to protest against the Government ' s policy , and it be clearly disproportionate in the light of the action of the group . I be also deeply concerned by the Home Office ' s utterly cynical decision to wrap up the proscription of Palestine Action with that of two other group that undeniably meet the terrorism test . this have clearly be do to make it extremely difficult for mp to vote against the motion . I want it on record that I and my Green party colleague absolutely oppose the proscription of Palestine Action , and we will oppose any similar attack on the civil disobedience that be such a proud part of UK history . let we compare the charge against Palestine Action with those against the Maniacs Murder Cult and the Russian Imperial Movement . run paramilitary training camp , produce guide on how to fatally attack somebody and white supremacist neo - Nazis organise in support of satanism be clearly terrorist act , whereas proscribe Palestine Action appear to be a purely political move , unworthy of a democracy supposedly commit to human right . no wonder there be significant opposition to this move across Parliament , include from the former Lord Chancellor and Justice Secretary , Lord Falconer . it be a massive distraction from the continue horror in Gaza that Palestine Action want to bring to an end , as do many in the Chamber — Order . I call Nadia Whittome . I want to make it clear to Members that the order we be vote on be not about whether we support Palestine Action ' s political position or protest method . to vote against this motion , member do not have to agree with the group at all ; they can still support hold it criminally liable for its action . the question be whether it should be proscribe as a terrorist group , place alongside the like of al - Qaeda , Islamic State and National Action . it be fitting that this debate take place on the 97th anniversary of woman win the vote on equal term with man , thank in no small part to the suffragette . the suffragette carry out direct action far more extreme than anything those in Palestine Action have do , but today their role in change history for the well be commemorate . whatever we think of its action , Palestine Action be part of a similar tradition , with the target this time be to stop the genocide in Gaza . it be unprecedented for a Government to ban a civil disobedience protest group in the way that they be attempt to today , but what be not unprecedented be protester break into military basis . that have never before result in proscription . Proscribing Palestine Action would be a draconian overreach . it would threaten the fundamental right to peaceful protest . it would set a dangerous precedent that could be use in future to further silence dissent , while diminish what the Terrorism Act be mean to prevent . I be the MP for Newbury , where we have Greenham Common , which be now peaceful but have cruise missile . Greenham common peace woman break into the base and attack jet with hammer , and they be prosecute under criminal law . they be hold to account . do the hon . Member agree that under this government , even Greenham peace woman could have be consider a terrorist organisation ? I agree entirely with the hon . member . UN expert urge we not to do this . they state that they be " concerned at the unjustified labelling of a political protest movement as ' terrorist ' " . hundred of lawyer have write to the Home Secretary , warn that proscribe Palestine Action would conflate protest and terrorism . Amnesty International and Liberty have both express deep concern . a senior civil servant have brief that there be disquiet among Home Office staff about the decision , and have call it " absurd " . it be important to remember that this proscription would affect not just member of Palestine Action , but anyone who support they . donate to a fundraiser or post positively about the group on social medium would be commit a crime . we risk criminalise huge number of our constituent . I regret our be deny the opportunity to vote separately on the proscription of Palestine Action . the other two body be neo - nazi organisation whose proscription I wholeheartedly support . this group together of organisation that so clearly do not belong in the same category demonstrate again why we can not allow this proscription to go ahead . I have no choice but to vote against the order . I must say that I never think the day would arise when I as a non - lawyer would be advise a Government of lawyer that they need to be sure of the legal basis for what they be do . as I say in an intervention on this subject on 23 June , " it would do the country and the Government no favour if they be to lose in court a challenge to the process of proscription , because whereas the secret sabotage of plane would certainly have be an act of terrorism lead to proscription , the fact be that this be a performative act that these people announce they have do . " — [ Official Report , 23 June 2025 ; Vol . 769 , c . 893 . ] my question for the Government be this : will they at least adopt a belt - and - brace policy when it come to the prosecution of the people who do that terribly irresponsible and wrong - head act of sabotage those plane ? will they also prosecute they on the basis that they have do criminal damage , and have attack the force of the Crown and thereby do something that border on sedition ? otherwise , by use the wrong aspect of the law to pursue people who do some very bad thing indeed , I fear the Government will end up score an own goal , and these people will walk free with a court triumph under their belt . although it be justify by the unacceptable behaviour of the perpetrator , I be not convince that the policy that the Government have adopt will stand up in court , when there be plenty of other legal method that could be use to deal with this form of extremism . it be extremism , but it do not , in my opinion , pass the threshold to be classify as terrorism , in the legal sense . if I have be able to accept the Minister ' s offer to have a word with I on Privy Council term before the debate — I thank he for that offer , and I be sorry that I be not able to take it up — he may have be able to tell I thing about Palestine Action that would have convince I that it cross that threshold . however , if the Minister be not able to say those thing in public — there may be very good reason why he be not — then I suspect he will not be able to tell they to the court , either . nobody can accuse I of be soft on anti - militarist extremist group , but I say to the Government , with the good will in the world , that they must adopt a legal belt - and - brace policy when it come to prosecute this group , and not rely on this proscription alone , because I fear that I see trouble ahead from m ' learn friend . I place on record my full support for the proscription of Maniacs Murder Cult and Russian Imperial Movement . they be vile , murderous and fascist cult , and their place on the proscribe list be justified and necessary . however , it be precisely because we must take terrorism seriously that we must draw clear line . to put Palestine Action , a direct action protest group , in the same category as those murderous , extremist organisation erode the credibility of our legal framework and risk undermine civil right . Proscription must be use judiciously . conflate protest with terror be a dangerous step that undermine the freedom that our counter - terrorism law be mean to protect . there be adequate provision in our criminal law to deal with any criminal activity , but we be be ask to proscribe Palestine Action under the Terrorism Act . to treat civil dissent , whether or not we agree with it , as extremism be a concern shift , and we risk cross a line . hundred of lawyer , include King ' s counsel and human right advocate , have warn that such a move be not a hallmark of democracy . we hear early today that United Nations special rapporteur have express serious concern about the measure , but we have not hear about the huge implication that the proscription will have for some of our community , who risk be criminalise simply for show support for Palestine . under this proscription , people could face prosecution for something as simple as wear a badge , share a post online or attend a peaceful protest . the question for the House be : do we really want to become a society where non - violently express solidarity , or even speak out , could be interpret as terrorism ? that will only further fuel fear and repression . local anti - racist group could suddenly find themselves under suspicion . whole community could be class as suspect , not for what they do but what they stand for . there be numerous example of that , which I do not have time to set out today . my hon . friend the Member for Leeds East ( Richard Burgon ) have already eloquently set out a number of example that , frankly , should send shiver down the spine of all hon . member . this be not the way forward . non - violent protest , which our democracy be mean to protect , now risk be label as terror . the legal basis for this proscription be unsound . the democratic consequence be severe , and the moral cost be frankly unacceptable . let I be clear : it will disproportionately target campaigner and minority community and set a precedent that reach far beyond this one group . today it be Palestine Action , and tomorrow it could be climate activist . we be stand on a slippery slope . proscribe a protest group be not strength . I urge this House to defend our hard - win right and civil liberty . conflate protest with terrorism be not democracy . I therefore put on record that I will not support any proscription of Palestine Action . rise — Order . I can squeeze in one more speaker if they be brief . I come to this country as a child ; it nurture , educate and embrace I . I love this country for so many reason , but for two reason more than anything else , I suspect . the first be for its sense of fairness , and the second be for the freedom to express how we feel democratically . that be why I speak specifically about Palestine Action when I say that if we proscribe this organisation under the Terrorism Act , we will for the first time in this nation ' s history outlaw a domestic protest group as a terrorist organisation . Britain have a proud and often hard - fight tradition of civil resistance . we remember with reverence the suffragette , who be brand as criminal for smash window but be now celebrate as hero of justice . we remember the civil right movement , in which protester occupy street and break unjust law to dismantle segregation . we remember the global campaign against apartheid — which include Ministers in this House — where people of conscience defy authority , trespass and disrupt in the name of end a brutal system . the very freedom we hold dear today — vote for woman , racial equality and the end of apartheid — be bear not from man and woman in suit in this establishment , but from people out there . it be that tradition that we be about to disrupt today . this decision , which have be rush through Parliament in a matter of day and bundle with unrelated , foreign neo - nazi group and debate for mere minute , be a reckless abuse of process . it deny Parliament the gravity of deliberation that this issue so badly demand . the proscription have already be condemn by a vast range of people , from Sally Rooney to Lord Falconer , and that will continue . even bad , this statutory instrument risk criminalise anyone who support , sympathise with or even publicly praise the aim of Palestine Action . it open the door to the prosecution of journalist , filmmaker , campaigner and politician for do nothing more than express solidarity . this be orwellian dystopia on steroid . let we ask ourselves honestly : if we set this precedent , who will be next ? history will judge harshly those who choose silence in moment of moral testing . I urge my colleague not to allow this dangerous step to go unchallenged . do not allow a Home Secretary , in a moment of political expediency , permanently to expand the reach of anti - terror law into the heart of a domestic protest . do not let this House be the one that shrink the boundary of freedom of expression . we owe it to those who fight so hard for our freedom , dare to dissent and refuse to be silent — let we summon their courage now . I urge colleague to vote against this proscription , and to protect our democratic tradition and our right to protest . I be grateful to all those who have contribute to this debate . the proscription of these three organisation affirm the UK ' s zero - tolerance approach to terrorism . to be clear , these proscription will not affect anyone ' s legitimate and lawful right to protest , whether it be about Palestine , Gaza or anything else . will the Minister give way ? the Government have to take action when Palestine Action have orchestrate a nationwide campaign of property damage , feature attack that have result in serious damage to property and cross the legal threshold — will the Minister give way ? I will not give way . will the Minister give way ? order . I think it be clear that at this point the Minister do not wish to give way . he have until 5 . 27 pm , so let we see how this progress . these attack have result in serious damage to property and cross the legal threshold from direct criminal action into terrorism . member have use violence against people respond at the scene of attack , and have be charge with a series of serious offence , include violent disorder , grievous bodily harm with intent and aggravate burglary , which be an offence involve a weapon . this order would degrade their harmful activity . it will also reduce the threat — particularly to vulnerable individual — from MMC ' s violent content , and it will reinforce our support for Ukraine and our commitment to counter extreme right - wing terrorism in Europe . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . Mr McDonnell — [ interruption . ] I be on my foot . this be a very tight debate that have to conclude at 5 . 27 pm . the Minister have time ; he may wish to take your intervention shortly . be your point of order really relevant right now ? it be , Madam Deputy Speaker — let I explain . I want to know whether , if this order go through and I go out to the demonstration that be mobilise at the moment to say that I be oppose to this , I will be prosecute . that be not a point of order . the Minister may wish to respond — he have a few minute in which to do so — but that be not a point of order . I be happy to respond directly to the right hon . Gentleman ' s point of order . the process of proscription require this House to agree such action . should the House do so later this evening , it would then go to the other place , and it would be for the other place to agree the action or not . it would then be for the Home Secretary or myself to sign an order , and that order would then become law at midnight on the night it have be sign . will the Minister give way on that point ? I be not go to give way to the right hon . Gentleman . what if I oppose it tomorrow ? what if I suggest it be wrong ? order . Minister , continue . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I do not think the right hon . Gentleman listen to what I say — I just explain to he the process that be in place . I be grateful to all of those who have consider this matter . this order be a necessary and proportionate step to protect the public and defend our value . that is , after all , the first duty of the state , and under this government , nothing will matter more . with that , I commend this order to the House . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . this be not a time for a point of order . question put . Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Rushanara Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Jim Allister Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Tonia Antoniazzi Edward Argar Scott Arthur Jessica Asato Lewis Atkinson Gareth Bacon Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Harriett Baldwin Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Steve Barclay Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Peter Bedford Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Bob Blackman Rachel Blake Jade Botterill Andrew Bowie Aphra Brandreth Phil Brickell Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Liam Byrne Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Sam Carling James Cartlidge Luke Charters Christopher Chope Feryal Clark James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper John Cooper Yvette Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Harriet Cross Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Gareth Davies Jonathan davy mim davy Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Caroline Dinenage Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Oliver Dowden Graeme Downie Iain Duncan Smith Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Bill Esterson Chris Evans Luke Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Nigel Farage Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Peter Fortune Paul Foster Ashley Fox Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis Mark Francois Louie French James Frith Richard Fuller Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Jodie Gosling Helen Grant Lilian Greenwood Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Rebecca Harris Lloyd Hatton John Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Jonathan Hinder Damian Hinds Richard Holden Paul Holmes Rachel Hopkins Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Alison Hume Jeremy Hunt Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Dr Caroline Johnson Diana R . Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Lincoln Jopp Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Alicia Kearns Stephen Kinnock Danny Kruger Sonia Kumar Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Katie Lam Peter Lamb Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Edward Leigh Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Rupert Lowe Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Alan Mak Amanda Martin Keir Mather Alex Mayer Jerome Mayhew Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Chris McDonald Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Esther McVey Navendu Mishra Gagan Mohindra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Margaret Mullane David Mundell Tessa Munt Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Andrew Murrison Luke Myer James Naish Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Jesse Norman Dan Norris Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Priti Patel Matthew Patrick Rebecca Paul Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Manuela Perteghella Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Chris Philp Al Pinkerton David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Sarah Pochin Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Shivani Raja Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Jack Rankin Mike Reader David Reed Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Andrew Rosindell Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Tulip Siddiq David Simmonds Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Julian Smith Nick Smith Rebecca Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Andrew Snowden Alex Sobel Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Euan Stainbank Blake Stephenson Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alan Strickland Mel Stride Graham Stringer Graham Stuart Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Luke Taylor Rachel Taylor Bradley Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Richard Tice Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Laura Trott Henry Tufnell Thomas Tugendhat Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Tony Vaughan Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Chris Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White James Wild David Williams Sammy Wilson Steve Witherden Mike Wood Sean Woodcock Jeremy Wright Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gen Kitchen Christian Wakeford Diane Abbott Shockat Adam Tahir Ali Apsana Begum Si â n Berry Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Ellie chown Jeremy Corbyn Carla Denyer Colum Eastwood Andrew George Tom Gordon Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Kim Johnson Clive Lewis John Martin McDonnell Grahame Morris Tessa Munt Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Adrian Ramsay Zarah Sultana Luke Taylor Nadia Whittome Bell Ribeiro - Addy Ayoub Khan the House divide : Ayes 385 , Noes 26 . question accordingly agree to . resolve , that the draft Terrorism Act 2000 ( Proscribed Organisations ) ( amendment ) Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 30 June , be approve . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . as you know , every single person who just vote no on the statutory instrument want to vote yes on the proscription of the Maniacs Murder Cult and the Russian Imperial Movement , but we be prevent from do so by the cynical way in which the Government lump together those two clearly terrorist organisation with Palestine Action , which we could not support . can you please advise I and the other mp who just vote no if there be any way that , in future , proscription order for unrelated organisation could be vote on separately , so that each MP can apply their own critical assessment of whether each group have meet the test of proportionality and necessity that be require for a terrorism proscription ? I thank the hon . Lady for give notice of her point of order . the Chair do not have the power to separate out decision on the content of a statutory instrument . in make her point of order , she have put her concern on the record . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . during the debate on the proscription of Palestine Action , the hon . member for High Peak ( Jon Pearce ) , whom I have notify of this point of order , speak without declare that he be chair of Labour Friends of Israel and have accept hospitality and overseas trip fund by private Israel lobby organisation . the House be discuss a non - violent direct action group that directly challenge the israeli state , which be on trial for genocide against the palestinian people . can you advise I on what mechanism be available to make the british public truly aware of what interest be be represent on the Floor of the House ? I thank the hon . Lady for her point of order , and for have give advance notice of it . the procedure for raise a complaint of this sort be by write to the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards , and it be not a matter for the Chair . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Agriculture that the draft Sheep Carcase ( Classification and Price Reporting ) ( England ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 2 June , be approve . — ( Keir Mather . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Subsidy Control that the draft Subsidy Control ( Subsidies and Schemes of Interest or Particular Interest ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 2 June , be approve . — ( Keir Mather . ) question agree to . corporate Businesses and Franchisees : Regulatory Environment Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Keir Mather . ) speak long before I be bear , G . k . Chesterton say that " big business … be now organize like an army . it be , as some would say … militarism … without the military virtue . " Heaven know what he would say if he be alive now , as global corporation have such influence on all our life . yet it be the small and medium - sized business in my Lincolnshire constituency and in constituency across this country that be the backbone of our economy . they also provide the particularity — the colour and shape — of the place that each of we call home . those small and medium - sized business reinvest in the community of which they be a part and provide opportunity for local people . we all know they from our daily experience as customer , but we also know they from the representation they make to we as Members of Parliament . today , I speak in the interest of those small business , those entrepreneur , those people who devote so much of their time , skill and energy for the common good — for the national interest and the common good drive all that I do in this place . small and medium - sized business employ up to 250 people make up about 99 % of business , but just think of the influence and effect of the other 1 % . when sme be accuse of wrongdoing or even of break the law , they often have little in the way of resource to defend themselves , so they be at the mercy of powerful regulator and the caprice of giant competitor . in contrast , the big multinational company , which have come to dominate too much of our economy , have army of compliance officer , lawyer and spin doctor to bat away legitimate concern . the fear that many of we in this Chamber have about two - tier justice run parallel to our certainty that there be a two - tier economy . faceless , heartless multinational firm often have little in the way of root here , and many tech firm use such rootlessness to justify decision to pay little , if any , tax . corporate behemoth have grow ever large , ever more dominant in their sector , ever more detached from their customer , and ever more determined to bend rule and evade justice . in recent year , we have see profiteer by , for example , the major supermarket , which very often give their supplier — primary producer such as the farmer and grower in my constituency — a raw deal . we have see they distort the food chain , yet take advantage of the disruption bring by the pandemic and the war in Ukraine . indeed , the pandemic exacerbate the power of greedy globalist . follow research on 17 , 000 big firm , the trade union Unite have highlight that average profit margin have soar by 30 % compare with the pre - pandemic period . in 2022 , the profit of the 350 large company in Britain increase by about 89 % compare with pre - pandemic level . contrast that if you will , Madam Deputy Speaker , with the plight of small business , which face ever great cost and ever more unfair competition from their giant competitor . what of the claim of the enthusiastic globalist that the world would be a well place as a result of their activity ? do you remember the globalist — those people who be addict to modernity and change ? who have really benefit ? in an economy in which standard of living be fall , productivity have stall and the state grow ever big in the face of rise worklessness , it seem to I that the only beneficiary of globalisation be a few people at the top of those corporate business . we need not monopoly , but a multiplicity of business , such as start - up firm , local firm , and firm that innovate and engage in new activity in the economy , rather than cement exist practice . let we give those business what they need , which be great freedom , while the big corporate monolith need to be regulate so that they do not exploit the marketplace they dominate . think for a moment of the bank . I have a vision of banking — I hope you might too , Madam Deputy Speaker — root in a sort of " Dad ' s Army " approach : a Captain Mainwaring figure commit to his community , in close touch with his customer and care about the business they run . that be not just a fiction in my young year . I well remember go to a bank as a young man and ask if I could borrow £ 500 to buy an old car — I be a student at the time . the manager , a bit like Captain Mainwaring in character , invite I in , give I a glass of sherry , interrogate I for half an hour and eventually say , " yes , I think we can probably lend you the £ 500 . " imagine that scene now . at well , you would have an online connection with someone remotely situated — you wouldn ' t get a car for 500 quid though , John ! I think my right hon . friend be refer to the £ 500 he still owe I from the day when I use to work for he . the point be that nowadays the connection between customer and supplier have become at well detached and at bad remote . as I say , now you would have a conversation with some remotely situated person who know nothing about you or your circumstance , and probably care less . will my right hon . friend give way ? I will happily give way . be it about the £ 500 ? yes — without interest . I agree with my right hon . friend . I also agree about something else , which be that people do not realise that the really big global multinational , for example Amazon , do not really make their profit on what they sell . they hold your datum and that be what they really sell , subsequently . that be where they make their money and their profit . you derive no income from that datum , but they make a lot of money off the back of it . to try to break that process down and make thing more local , we have to start with what we have all be complicit in , which be the idea of get something for nothing . it be not for nothing — there be a cost . my right hon . friend , as ever , make an apposite comment . the trading of datum by big business have become a business in itself , in the way that he set out . by contrast , we need firm to practise responsibility , not parrot slogan and virtue signal . they concentrate power and wealth with little regard to the community in which they sit , or even the country in which they be situate . I commend the right hon . gentleman . he be a friend to we all in this Chamber and we all love he because of the wisdom he bring to it . he be also a good friend to Northern Ireland . I say that because he will be very pleased when he hear about what we be do in Northern Ireland . the Northern Ireland well regulation strategy require department to undertake and publish a regulatory impact assessment when consider new policy proposal or amendment to exist policy that may impact on business and to carry out a microbusiness test to assess the impact on business of few than five employee . do he not agree , understand what we be do in Northern Ireland , that with increase regulation must come increase co - operation to secure well business , which benefit we all — the very thing he be try to achieve ? as ever , the hon . Gentleman make an apposite and worthy contribution to our consideration . I simply say this to the Minister . the Government have a lot of power in all kind of way . they certainly have the power to regulate the kind of unfair practice I have begin to set out , but they also have power as a customer . government procurement have never , under successive government , be use as well as it might be to support british business , and in particular british small business . my challenge to the Minister be to look at that again . let we look at how the Government , as a huge customer of all kind of business , can support small and medium - sized firm . decade of non - intervention , drive by the mistaken belief in the triumph of liberal economic , have result in extraordinary number of foreign takeover of british firm . it be also a matter of who own these corporate giant and overseas company that own our critical national infrastructure . the Government recently approve the Vodafone - three merger , and the latter company be own by a Hong Kong - base conglomerate . I wonder how closely the Competition and Markets Authority look into the owner and leadership of Three ' s parent company , the CK group , and I wonder whether that group have tie with the chinese state — perhaps the Minister can inform we tonight . this merger must not become yet another corporate bonanza for shareholder at the expense of our national interest and the common good . I seek this debate in particular follow a meeting with a constituent who be previously a Vodafone franchisee , along with other from across the country . I be mindful , Madam Deputy Speaker , of a legal case involve those Vodafone franchisee ; I have take advice from the Table Office and amend my speech heavily as a result . however , I do think it be important to set out some of the context , in the broad term that I have describe , which relate to the behaviour of large company that adopt the franchise model . I congratulate the right hon . gentleman on secure this debate . I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , in particular my trade union membership . I wonder whether he share my view that the merger between Vodafone and Three will have real consequence for both pricing for customer and job loss in Britain . that be certainly the risk . I think merger more generally need to be look at closely . it be why we have the Competition and Markets Authority , and why these thing be indeed consider in the term I have describe . more recently , of course , as my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) will know — as a former member of the Intelligence and Security Committee , of which I remain a member — the Government introduce other legislation in respect of security , large business , merger and all kind of similar and related matter . it be important to gauge the national interest in all kind of way when one consider business activity . rise — however , I will say no more about that , as it would be digress from my main theme , and I can see an eagerness to intervene — I give way to my neighbour . I be most grateful to the right hon . gentleman for give way . he make a powerful case about the difference between small business , entrepreneur , franchisee and the big corporate . do he share my concern that franchisee suffer the risk of what be essentially corporate bullying from the mega - company — the like , potentially , of Vodafone — and that they do not have any form of umbrella regulatory comfort ? entity such as the British Franchise Association may sound effective , but they be actually toothless in the face of such corporate bullying . I have work closely with the hon . gentleman — as ever , he and I be on the same page here . he be absolutely right that franchising can be use as a method to exaggerate the power of the business at the heart of the franchise and to weaken the position of franchisee . my assertion be that that be common and be particular in the case of Vodafone . rise — I will give way to the hon . member for North Durham ( Luke Akehurst ) and then to my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) . I congratulate the right hon . gentleman on secure this important Adjournment debate . like he , I have meet Vodafone franchisee in my constituency , particularly the Chester - Le - Street former franchise holder , whom I meet again today . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for set out the legal advice he have receive on the ongoing case , and I will therefore be careful about what I say . I think there be major corporate that treat their franchisee very badly ; they sign they up on one set of term — one rate card — and then change the goalpost , and then , when people dissent and complain about that , they find their franchise withdraw and lose their investment , after they have put a great deal into that corporate giant . I think this be a matter that will in the near future require ministerial attention . I thank the right hon . Gentleman very much for bring this to the House ' s attention . I give way to my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green . I need not detain my right hon . friend for long , but I very much support the union ' position on this , as I think this be wrong at the time . without stray into the issue of the bid , we should consider organisation such as CK from China . it now have link with and control over UK Power Networks , Northumbrian Water , Wales and West Utilities , and Eversholt Rail . the network it have now be intriguing , which be hugely around the power and communication network . all of those be now fall into the hand of conglomerate that have nothing to do with the UK , but that be link to government of a different country . this be the big problem we face : it be not that we do not like big business ; it be just that so often now they operate from outside our legal empowerment . I be grateful to my right hon . friend , who take a great interest in these matter , and that be precisely why I pose the early question to the Minister about how closely he and other have look at that merger . I will say no more about it than that , but it do seem to I to be a legitimate question to ask : be those thing consider in this particular case , and how be they generally consider ? if my right hon . friend be right that there be threat that result from this , under exist legislation and regulation it be perfectly possible for the Government to become involved in these kind of commercial affair . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I will give way once more and then will make a little more progress . may I put on record that I do not use the term " right hon . " in my early intervention on the right hon . Gentleman and wish to correct that ? also , the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) make a very important point about big business that operate outside the UK perhaps in some case abuse their position . on a light note , may I encourage he to join a trade union ? I would be happy to supply he with a membership form . I be again grateful to the hon . Gentleman . it seem to I that there be a mood across the House tonight that more must be do . this Minister , as an experienced Member of the House , will have gather that that mood could easily , from this small beginning , become a crescendo that might endanger the very safety of his office and the Government as a whole , so let we hope that this be the beginning of a journey , for both the Government and the Minister , towards a regime that counter the very thing that have be describe by member across the House . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? because I be a long - stand friend of the hon . Gentleman , I will certainly give way to he , but then I must make progress . I be very grateful to the right hon . Gentleman , who do the House a favour in his work tonight . I should first declare an interest , as I have a close relative who work for the Competition and Markets Authority . I do not wish to comment on competition and merger , though I would like to ask the right hon . Gentleman to join I in support the Government ' s work . I believe that minister be shortly to do some further work to offer great support to small business in term of open up Government procurement and in other matter . like the right hon . Gentleman , in my own constituency I be a keen supporter of small business , and my own small business competition have provide a great deal of recognition for business , whether local florist , those repair small musical instrument , people provide other service , and indeed many other form of small business . so I do want to commend the broad thrust of the right hon . Gentleman ' s work tonight , although I do not want to comment on the CMA . I be most grateful for the hon . Gentleman ' s support . during the pandemic , the UK Government introduce the business rate relief package , which allow business with commercial lease to claim relief on their business rate . that be design to help firm with physical store compensate for lost footfall during the lockdown , and it be an essential lifeline to those small business . this automatically apply to business through local council . from 11 March 2020 to June 2021 the relief be 100 % with no cash cap , and ratepayer with more than one property be entitle to relief for each eligible property . franchisee be eligible to receive this relief , and it would have be automatically apply to store operate by company such as Vodafone and not through the franchise programme . it be worth note that some corporation that benefit from that scheme , such as Tesco — although I hold no candle for Tesco generally — have since return the money to the Government . the question be how Vodafone use that money : do it achieve its original purpose — I would be interested to hear the Minister ' s answer to that question — or be it redirect in some way that be out of tune with the Government ' s intention and the proper purpose ? it be worth note that that be available not only to Vodafone , but to all those organisation that have franchise . I wonder how other organisation handle the matter and how that compare with the circumstance surround Vodafone . the important thing to consider as we debate these matter be that the franchisee be small business owner with family — this be important to they . business rate relief be of huge significance and make a meaningful difference to people , as intend by the Chancellor at the time , my right hon . friend the Member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) . the Government ' s state purpose for covid - 19 business relief be to assist small business to carry on trading at a financially difficult time when profit in brick and mortar shop be much reduce . the question be , be that the reality ? the fact that the Government later introduce cap on the relief indicate that it be intend to help small business — those to whom £ 100 , 000 make a great difference — not to subsidise large globalist corporation with hundred of store and access to other type of relief . what be the Minister ' s assessment of how that kind of funding be use during the covid pandemic ? too often , franchisee ' payment from those who franchise they be cut drastically and with little or no explanation . contract be often terminate with just a few day ' notice and store repossess with little notice , often without valid reason for do so , leave debt and loan to be repay with no income . franchisee claim that they face fine and clawback that be grossly disproportionate to the error in question . in some case , the error that lead to fine be the result of failure in major corporation system , yet the financial burden be often unfairly place on franchisee . communication raise serious concern , though make , be often unanswered and press issue be ignore for long period of time , leave franchisee without support or resolution to their problem . moreover , it have emerge that whistleblower have warn a series of senior Vodafone executive that score of its franchise store owner face financial ruin . what step be the Government take to regulate corporate business ' relationship with their franchisee ? as I say , we be not speak of powerful business with deep legal department and balance sheet to absorb loss but ordinary people — mother , father , son and daughter — who see an opportunity when they become a franchisee to build a meaningful business of their own under the banner of a global household name and to make a difference to their family , their community and the town in which they be situate . People put their saving , their home and their reputation on the line because they believe that a franchise agreement with a company such as Vodafone — there be other too — would be safe and secure . last month , the Competition and Markets Authority confirm the merger of Vodafone and Three . will the Minister confirm that the matter of the problem with franchisee be discuss ahead of that merger be approve ? indeed , more broadly , can such a merger really be say to benefit the british public , give that it be forecast to cost 1 , 600 UK job and that evidence from overseas show that country with few mobile phone operator tend to charge high price to consumer ? will the Minister confirm what step the Government be take to investigate allegation of inappropriate use of Government relief during the covid pandemic , specifically in relation to business with franchisee ? will the Minister confirm that all allegation of misappropriation of Government relief scheme intend for franchisee should be investigate as part of the inquiry into covid by the covid commissioner ? will the Minister urge bank to show leniency and support to those franchisee face financial distress , and will he commit to look afresh at the lack of enforceable regulation govern franchiser conduct ? a key lesson from the Post Office scandal be that we must not allow the sophisticated power of a corporate body , or the impression create by an impressive balance sheet , to persuade we to ignore the voice of less powerful individual who speak out . many franchisee have give up stable job . some have take out personal loan , and some have remortgage their home . they train staff , open store , serve customer , and be tell by the big business that they be partner ; but when the going get rough , when the commission cut come with little warning , when franchisee ' performance plummet due to decision beyond their control , and when store be repossess with inadequate notice , they be leave out on their own , high and dry . no lifeline , no dialogue — just silence from the corporation that they once trust . I can not believe that this Minister do not feel as I do about corporate malpractice — about greedy , soulless , heartless firm that act irresponsibly and hide behind the high wall of their substance . government have a duty not only to promote entrepreneurship and business , but to protect entrepreneur and ensure that business do not take unfair advantage of their staff . we must call time on the era of corporate giant use legal structure not as a framework for partnership , but as a shield for avoidance — for avoid responsibility and decency . brand that trade on their reputation and public trust must be hold accountable for the action that they take that cause real harm . we must move away from a globalist , faceless corporate model that have enrich a few , and towards a different kind of economic order , in which we shorten supply line , encourage small and medium - sized business , and understand that economic must serve a civil purpose . I call that fraternal economic — an economic in which community and economic activity be bind together in a common cause . we can build that kind of economic future , but it require Government to know when to step forward to support business , and when to step back and not suffocate entrepreneurship . that future be within our grasp , but it will require this Government — perhaps any Government — to think afresh about the power balance between large , faceless business , and small entrepreneur . they be ordinary people , like most of we , I guess , who simply want to get on and do the good for their family and their community . I know which side I be on . I be on the side of those people , because I know that they make so much difference in my constituency , and across the whole of our kingdom . in the usual way , I thank the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) for secure this debate . have cross sword with he when our position be reverse , I approach this debate with particular wariness , not least because he have assemble a very distinguished cross - party group of member to participate in this debate . we hear from not only the right hon . Gentleman , but the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , my hon . friend the Members for Stockport ( Navendu Mishra ) , for North Durham ( Luke Akehurst ) and for read Central ( Matt Rodda ) , and the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) . each of they make important point . I very much agree with the open remark of the right hon . member for South Holland and the deeping about small and medium - sized business be the backbone of our community . they be important ; they be fundamental to the strength of each of our constituency . the Government be determined to do much more to support our sme go forward . that be why , on the point make by my hon . friend the Member for read Central , we will publish a strategy for support sme . the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings be right that we as a country should do more to celebrate our entrepreneur and to champion their interest . they be brave ; they be risk taker ; they create wealth ; and they make all our community well and rich . we be determined to encourage more people to come forward as entrepreneur , to take risk and succeed , and to grow business . we have already take a number of measure to support sme . the Secretary of State for Business and Trade have already commit to establish a business growth service inspire by the US Small Business Administration . that be why one of the outcome of the spending review be a two - third increase in the capacity of the British Business Bank . the vast majority of that funding will go to help tackle the considerable challenge that sme face in access the right form of financial support . the right hon . Gentleman rightly raise the issue of access to public procurement for british sme . I be sympathetic about the need to open up public procurement to sme . again , we will have more to say on that in the small business strategy , when it be publish shortly . Cabinet Office colleague be very much work in this space , too . the right hon . Gentleman also rightly raise the matter of the difficulty that small and medium - sized business face when legal issue arise . again , we will have more to say on that in the small business strategy shortly . towards the end of his remark , he make a powerful link to an appalling miscarriage of justice : the scandal of how the Post Office treat its sub - postmaster . there be many lesson to learn from that . I hope that he will take confidence from the Government ' s determination to do that when he see the Green Paper on the future of the Post Office , which we be seek to bring forward . I be sure that the whole House appreciate the work that Sir Wyn Williams be do to draw conclusion about what go wrong in the scandal , and about what more we need to do to learn the lesson and ensure that nothing like that ever happen again . I thank the hon . gentleman for the way in which he be respond . there be a close parallel between the way the Post Office be construct — its business arrangement , and the connection between independent post office and the centre — and the matter that I describe . will he ensure that his small business strategy include something on franchising ? that be a really important part of get right our approach to regulation on the relationship between small business and corporate giant . I have already give a flavour of what might be in the small business strategy . I will leave the right hon . gentleman to wait a little long , if I may — he will have to forgive I — before he see the strategy in full . let I come to the substance of the right hon . Gentleman ' s concern . he rightly and understandably mention the experience of a number of franchise operator who allege mistreatment and be badly let down by Vodafone during covid . no one in the Chamber will have fail to have be move by those story . I have read a number of they in correspondence from colleague on both side of the House . there be , without question , serious allegation be level at Vodafone . as the right hon . Gentleman say , and as I be sure he will understand , I be unable to comment on ongoing legal dispute , but I will respond on behalf of the Government as good I can , give the ongoing nature of the case . until now , there have not be sustain concern about the quality or effectiveness of the self - regulation of franchise in general . however , I recognise that this case have raise concern across the House , and I will track very carefully what happen in this case , the final outcome , and the conclusion of any court case . as hon . member will no doubt be aware , franchising be grow in the UK , and it make a big contribution to our economy , at just over £ 19 billion annually , accord to the late British Franchise Association survey . the franchising industry be cover by the same general protection in law as other business , and I will come on to some of those in a moment . in addition , the franchising industry also effectively self - regulate through the British Franchise Association , which have a code of ethic , and the Quality Franchise Association , which provide a code of conduct . on the whole , as the House will recognise , there be significant advantage to self - regulation : great flexibility and responsiveness , and low cost . be the Minister aware — this be my understanding from the franchisee — that Vodafone leave the bfa , and walk away from its self - regulatory framework and code of conduct ? my hon . friend will forgive I , but I will not comment on the particular circumstance of Vodafone and its relationship with franchisee in general , or those former franchisee who be bring court action . however , I note his comment . I have work with the Minister on a number of issue relate to his ministerial role , and he have always be helpful and proactive . as he be represent his Majesty ' s Government , do he feel that there be a need to legislate on this issue , and that the code of conduct simply do not go far enough ? also , as my hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Luke Akehurst ) have just say , there might be case of large corporation opt in and out as and when it suit they . as I say , I recognise that this case have raise concern across the House about the quality and effectiveness of the legislation that govern franchisee and , indeed , other business , and about the arrangement around franchisee , and their relationship . as I say , up to now , we have not have significant representation that the quality of regulation of franchise be not adequate . however , I recognise the concern across the House that this case have bring up , and as a result , I will track very carefully how the court case unfold . I be note the advantage that , on occasion , self - regulation bring . they include freedom when it come to contracting . individual and business have the right to enter into agreement and set their own term , free from unnecessary Government interference . that freedom allow franchise agreement to be tailor to individual need . People can set up shop more easily on the high street or elsewhere with the power of a big brand behind they . on the whole , self - regulation also allow the franchise industry to set standard and guideline base on deep , industry - specific expertise . it allow the industry to adapt more quickly to market change , too . it be my understanding that the franchise agreement be the main instrument govern the relationship between franchisor and franchisee . those agreement normally cover key issue such as fee , territory right , contract duration and dispute resolution mechanism . the Government of course encourage anyone enter a business contract such as a franchise to seek independent legal advice before agree to the term and condition lay out in those agreement . I have talk a little bit about self - regulation and its benefit , and I allude early to the fact that there be exist protection in law that cover all business , include franchise . for example , under the Misrepresentation Act 1967 , anyone who have enter into a contract as a result of misrepresentation may be able to rescind the contract and claim damage . Misrepresentation be a false statement by one party to another that induce that person to enter the contract . ultimately , it would be for the court to decide whether a misrepresentation have occur and what the remedy would be . there be other form of legislation , too , include the Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977 , which may apply to business - to - business contract . that reference the application of a reasonableness test , but that again be a matter for dedicated legal advice . the Minister be absolutely right , of course . contract law be well establish and business contract be enforceable in the way that he set out , but the problem with franchising be that it be a hierarchical relationship that create a kind of dependency . the franchisee be dependent on the large business , so there be an in - build advantage if that large business be inclined to be permissive in the way that it apply the term of the contract , or even vary its term . the parallel I draw in my speech be with supermarket and primary producer . the supermarket have so much power that the primary producer be implicitly weaken in that commercial relationship . the right hon . Gentleman make a very interesting speech with a series of interesting analogy , and I have note those and the point that he make . as I have say , I will track this particular court case and its conclusion . I always try to make myself available when hon . and right hon . member want to discuss particular issue that be pertinent to my brief , and as thing unfold , I make that offer to the right hon . Gentleman too . I should stress again that only the court can really decide on the application of contractual term . it be absolutely right that affected business seek independent legal advice on the particular circumstance of their situation . as the right hon . Gentleman will be fully aware , legislation can not prevent wrongdoing . it can deter and it can punish , but only after the event . it be important for company , obviously , to conduct business fairly . we already have rule that encourage this , whether in relation to criminal offence of fraud , audit requirement or prompt payment reporting , which my Department have begin to strengthen and on which we will publish further proposal shortly . I be sure the right hon . Gentleman will agree that investor and the public expect and deserve access to truthful reporting from our most important business on their finance and related issue . this be critical for trust , and ultimately it be critical for economic growth . that be why , through the audit and corporate governance reform Bill , we be develop legislation to uphold standard and the independent scrutiny of company ' account while ensure real accountability for company director . section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 already require company director to frame regard in their decision make to a wide range of stakeholder interest . that include the impact of the company ' s operation on the wide community . it also require director to have regard to the desirability of the company maintain a reputation for high standard of business conduct . this requirement apply to a company ' s business transaction , include the treatment of franchisee . large company must report annually on how their director have comply with these requirement . take together , the section 172 duty help to provide assurance that company be run responsibly and that director be mindful of the impact of their decision making beyond the company and its shareholder . the right hon . Gentleman touch on the additional regulation of franchise and the wide franchise model . as he will know , this Government be dedicate to implement an ambitious regulatory reform agenda . in March , we publish our action plan for regulation , outline change to streamline rule and regulation to support growth . while that plan include a clear commitment to cut regulatory administrative cost for business by 25 % , it also include a commitment to strengthen accountability for regulator . that include simplify their duty to ensure that the regulatory environment focus on growth , investment and , crucially , transparency . our modern industrial strategy also include an ambitious package of regulatory reform that will support our growth - drive sector and the wide economy , but as we state at its launch , that be not the end of the journey ; it be just the beginning . where there be change that we can make to increase the UK ' s economic resilience and channel support to the most productive part of our economy , we want to continue to work with member across this House to implement they . in conclusion , let I thank the right hon . Gentleman and other hon . member who have participate in the debate . franchise regulation be a complex and difficult issue and , as I have say , this particular case have raise concern across the House . as I promise , I will continue to look closely at how the case develop and ultimately what conclusion be reach . I be happy to continue conversation about this case and its implication outside the Chamber . question put and agree to . House adjourn . defer Divisions Competition that the draft Enterprise Act 2002 ( Mergers Involving Newspaper Enterprises and Foreign Powers ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 15 May , be approve . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Nigel Farage Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Rachel Hopkins Alison Hume Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Anna McMorrin James McMurdock Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Sarah Pochin Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Richard Tice Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Jim Allister Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Alison Bennett Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie chown Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann Davies Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Tim Farron will Forster Z ö e Franklin Andrew George Sarah Gibson Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Wera Hobhouse Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Danny Kruger Ben Lake Carla Lockhart James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Mike Martin Brian Mathew Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Tessa Munt Susan Murray Sarah Olney Priti Patel Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Adrian Ramsay Joshua Reynolds Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Anna Sabine Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Robin Swann Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Martin Wrigley Claire Young the House divide : Ayes 338 , Noes 79 . question accordingly agree to . prison that the draft Criminal Justice Act 2003 ( suitability for Fixed Term Recall ) Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 9 June , be approve . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Rachel Hopkins Alison Hume Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Jim Allister Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Lewis cock Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Mims davy Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Nigel Farage Tim Farron will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Andrew George Sarah Gibson Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Esther McVey Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Anna Sabine Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden James Wild Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young the House divide : Ayes 333 , Noes 168 . question accordingly agree to .