prayer - [ Mr Speaker in the Chair ] I beg to move , that the House sit in private . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 163 ) and negative . Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and International Committee of the Red Cross ( Status ) Bill Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee , consider . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . this be an important moment for the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and the International Committee of the Red Cross . the Bill enable the Government to recognise both organisation individually as international organisation , confer on they the legal capacity of a body corporate as well as specific privilege and immunity . while the Bill may be only halfway through its scrutiny process , as it will move on to the other place , today feel like a significant milestone . I underline that , at all stage , the Bill have receive not only cross - party support , for which I be enormously grateful , but support from my hon . and right hon . friend on the Treasury Bench . I thank each and every member for their contribution to the Bill throughout its consideration . I want to mention individually those who have be particularly supportive of the Bill . my hon . friend the Member for Bridgwater and West Somerset ( Mr Liddell - Grainger ) must come at the start of that list , because he chair the international executive committee of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association . my immense appreciation go to the secretary - general of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association , Mr Stephen Twigg , whose passion and support for the Bill and for get the change in status for the cpa have be clear throughout . my thank go to all the hard - work and inspirational staff of cpa UK — include our new chief executive , Sarah Dickson , Helen Haywood , the deputy chief executive , and their team — for their unwavering passion and commitment to the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and continued support . without they , this achievement would not have be possible . and I can not forget Mr Jon Davies , Sarah ' s predecessor , who I thank from the bottom of my heart for all his contribution while in office . I thank the formidable team at the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office and my noble Friend Lord Ahmad , the Minister responsible for the Commonwealth , and the Deputy Foreign Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , who be not on the Front Bench today — he be detain elsewhere — but have be ably replace by the Minister of State , Ministry of Justice , my right hon . friend the Member for Charnwood ( Edward Argar ) . throughout , those Ministers have understand why the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association status need to change , why this be an important Bill and why the work of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association be essential in support the strengthening of democracy around the world . I thank they all and their team of official . at this stage of proceeding , it be also important to acknowledge the extraordinary work of the Clerks of the House , and to thank they . their guidance and recognition of the Bill ' s importance , combine with the support from the Government , have help get the Bill to where it be today . in particular , I say a huge thank you to Ms Anne - Marie Griffiths , the Clerk who have be advise we , for her assistance in get the Bill to this stage . I hope you will forgive I , Mr Speaker , for thank you , too . you have a very special place in the heart of the cpa , as do the Lord Speaker . you be our joint president , and in your work , you support we enormously . two organisation be support by this Bill . I thank the International Committee of the Red Cross for its incredibly important work and for support I in the preparation of the Bill . I know how much time and consideration its London delegation have put in , and Eve La Haye in the icrc legal team in Geneva have also be heavily involved . I thank all of they . the unique international humanitarian mandate and mission of the International Committee of the Red Cross have be formally recognise by state in the Geneva convention and additional protocol . the Bill will accord it a status or treatment in the UK equivalent to that of an international organisation , with the relevant privilege and immunity . to date , more than 110 state have accord the icrc those relevant privilege and immunity , include all other permanent member of the United Nations Security Council . the content of the Bill , and the conferral of relevant privilege and immunity to the icrc in the UK , be critical to enable it to continue to operate in the UK in accordance with its international mandate , maintain its strict adherence to the principle of neutrality , impartiality and independence and its working method of confidentiality . for more than two year , there have be intense work to get to this stage — it have be describe as a labour of love . none of it could have be accomplish without the esteemed individual and organisation that I mention . the perseverance from everyone be start to be reward now , but there be much more to do . I welcome the fact that the Bill and the amendment debate and agree to in Committee have receive cross - party support , again demonstrate the high regard and esteem in which both the cpa and icrc be hold not only in this place but throughout the country and internationally . member of a number of overseas Parliaments in particular have reiterate how important the Bill be . we have listen and learn and go forward with this historic legislation , which be now well on its way to put in place such a fundamental change . the Bill be integral to the cpa and the icrc , as it provide the necessary power for both organisation to be treat in a manner comparable with an international organisation , of which the United Kingdom , or his Majesty ' s Government in the United Kingdom , be a member . each organisation have its own role and constitutional arrangement . that have to be — and be — reflect in the Bill . under certain clause , secondary legislation can put in place the privilege and immunity that each organisation will need . the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association element of the Bill will be widely and warmly welcome by our fellow parliamentarian throughout the Commonwealth . I recall that on my recent visit to Kenya , the Speaker of that Parliament remind I how vital it be to the african region of the cpa to achieve this new status for the organisation . parliamentarian from Africa have long champion the need for this legislation and make the point that they want to continue to be part of the cpa because of the important work that it do , but they increasingly struggle to justify spend their taxpayer ' money with the cpa configure as a UK charity : a status that I believe we have long outgrow . concern about the cpa ' s status date back more than three decade . if that can now be resolve , I believe that will serve to strengthen and renew the cpa ' s mission , unity and sense of purpose . I attend the Commonwealth Parliamentary Conference in Ghana last October , where I see once again the strength of feeling across the cpa membership about the status of our organisation . Mr Speaker , last month you host Speakers and Presiding officer from the Commonwealth in London for Commonwealth day , where you ensure that they be brief about the progress that we be make on the Bill . the response be extremely warm and positive : a collective sigh of relief that this issue might be reach a solution . I be mindful , however , that the Bill will need to pass through the other place to become an Act , so may I say once again that , without this legislation , there be a strong possibility that the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association would relocate its headquarters outside the UK ? by enact the Bill , the UK can not only keep the cpa here but demonstrate our commitment to the Commonwealth itself in this , its 75th year . I be delighted that key amendment be pass in Committee , the first of which recognise the unique and sensitive role of the icrc , include visit prisoner all around the world to help ensure their safety . it allow for protect icrc information to be exempt from disclosure requirement impose by an order of court or tribunal proceeding , other than criminal proceeding . the amendment be design to protect information that the icrc provide in confidence to his Majesty ' s Government from be use in UK civil proceeding . that be necessary , as the withholding of confidential information from public disclosure can not otherwise be assure . that reflect the icrc ' s standard working method of confidentiality , which be design to protect not only its staff but its operation in active conflict zone . that principle also underpin the icrc ' s ability to operate in dangerous location on sensitive issue , engage with both state and non - state actor . disclosure of confidential icrc information could damage its ability to perform its sensitive function when negotiate with conflict party , and it could put its staff and operation at risk . there be a real risk and concern about icrc information be use in legal proceeding — over the past 15 year , the icrc ' s confidentiality have be challenge some 20 time in the UK . I table in Committee a probe amendment on the involvement of individual in draw up secondary legislation . I do not press it to a vote , and I thank the Minister in Committee , the hon . member for Aldershot ( Leo Docherty ) , for his extremely reassuring response to the debate on it . the amendment seek to lay down a formal requirement on the Foreign Secretary to consult the chair of the UK branch and secretary - general of the cpa , and the president and director general of the icrc , respectively , before finalise secondary legislation . the Minister be able to confirm that the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office will consult all those party ahead of secondary legislation be lay before the House , and will work closely with they to agree arrangement for the appropriate privilege and immunity for each organisation separately . that ensure that the Bill work exactly in the way that the relevant organisation need it to , and that the right individual be consult before secondary legislation be lay before the House and implement . the Bill demonstrate that the House of Commons value the Commonwealth , value the work of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association , respect the importance of the icrc and recognise that these organisation need to be recognise as international organisation . I thank colleague for their support , and I wish my Bill well as it continue its journey to the other place , take forward ably by my noble friend Baroness D ' souza . I thank Dame Maria Miller for everything she have do to ensure a solid future for the cpa . it be much welcome and appreciate by all side of this House . I do not intend to detain the House for long , but I will start by pay warm tribute to the right hon . member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) . since become chair of the cpa UK branch , she have spearhead and force this issue with Ministers in the strong possible term , include two or three — I can not quite remember — foreign Secretaries . she have be at the forefront of this work . one key reason why that work have be so important — the right hon . Lady have speak at length on that , as you just do , Mr . Speaker — be that it send a message to the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association that the UK Government and this Parliament be listen to what member state be tell we . I be privileged to serve as one of three representative from the cpa British Islands and Mediterranean Region on the International Committee of the cpa . there have be some very difficult conversation over the past two year I have serve on that body , include in — this be not some travel guide , Mr Speaker , but it do come up frequently when you be travel with the cpa — Gibraltar , Canada and , at our most recent cpa conference last year , Ghana , where I and the force that be the hon . member for Bridgwater and West Somerset ( Mr Liddell - Grainger ) be , quite rightly , cross - examine by nearly all member state of the cpa International about when the Bill will move forward . I be delighted and slightly relieved that the various commitment that the hon . Gentleman , the right hon . member for Basingstoke and I have be give to that body for the past two year be now at least at the halfway mark . two - and - a - half year ago , we feel like we be nowhere , so in that context , the speed of the last few month have be wonderfully refreshing . I pay tribute to the previous Foreign Secretary , the right hon . member for Braintree ( James Cleverly ) , and the current Foreign Secretary and the Minister in the Lords for their genuine engagement with the process . one key element have be the ability of my own Front Bench and the Government to work cross - party on set the standard , support the Commonwealth family and listen to the Commonwealth family of nation . the Bill be about set the cpa and the International Committee of the Red Cross on an equal footing with many other international organisation . we be , in essence , simply catch up , but nevertheless it be crucial to how we as a Parliament , UK Government and official opposition work with Commonwealth nation . when do those cross - examination — I will put it like that — from member state , the key theme throughout have be that they would like the cpa International to remain in the UK . there have be no animosity about its remain in London , but what they want be the status issue resolve . I recall an excellent conversation here with an australian delegation , who talk about how they could help and work with the Government to try to ensure it be make very clear that member state across the world want the cpa International to remain in the UK . this be a warmly welcome Bill . it send the right message , which be genuinely very important . when we head to Sydney later this year for the cpa International , we will now be able to say — all be well in the other place , of course , and I look forward to the Minister ' s remark — that we have deliver . I do think that be genuinely important . finally , I pay tribute to you , Mr Speaker , because , as the right hon . Lady say , I feel that you have personally move mountain on a lot of this work . it have be truly welcome and value by all of we in the cpa UK and by the cpa staff , both internationally and in the UK . I always warmly welcome your support . I thank the hon . member for Ogmore ( Chris Elmore ) for his speech , and I thank you , Mr Speaker , for the work you have do . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) on bring forward this important Bill . I welcome the support it have receive from both side of the House and I be pleased to offer my own support . the Bill be quite technical in nature . it make provision for two specific organisation to be grant international status , which , owe to their unique constitution , could not be include under exist legislation . however , the wording of the legislation should not distract we from the organisation cite in it . moreover , we should not overlook the primary purpose of these organisation , which be to strengthen parliamentary democracy and provide humanitarian assistance . in a world where we frequently witness the devastation cause by violence and war , and the grow threat to democracy , the importance of those cause and the organisation that pursue they can not be understate . I therefore welcome the Bill , which grant international organisation status to both the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and the International Committee of the Red Cross . the new status will ensure that those organisation can continue to perform their vital work fully and without restriction . the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association seek to promote the value of parliamentary democracy and good governance . it facilitate dialogue between Parliaments and draw on our collective knowledge to improve our procedure and address the wide - range challenge that we , as parliamentarian , may face . its effort have include the development of recommend benchmark for legislature and for a code of conduct for member . its effort have include the development of recommend benchmark for legislature and for a code of conduct for member . it have also provide guidance on specific and pertinent issue such as improve mental health provision , the challenge of climate change and the growth of AI . I welcome the Government ' s unwavere support for the Commonwealth and its ideal . article 1 of the Commonwealth charter outline our responsibility " for uphold and promote democratic culture and practice " . I would therefore ask what support the Government and Parliament have provide to the cpa to strengthen democracy across the Commonwealth . the fundamental mission of the International Committee of the Red Cross be to protect victim of conflict and violence through the provision of humanitarian assistance . its work , often in the most difficult and perilous environment , encompass everything from mine clearance and provide healthcare and sanitation to combat sexual violence , improve respect for international humanitarian law and establish economic stability . I be very proud of the United Kingdom ' s record in provide humanitarian aid across the world — to Afghanistan , to South Sudan , to Ukraine and right now to Gaza . however , what support have the Government provide to the icrc and what can we , as Members of Parliament , do to support the Red Cross ? ultimately , if we be to grant international status to these two organisation , let we also ensure that we fully support they in their operation and in their aim , strengthen democracy and humanitarian aid . I commend my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) for make progress with this important Bill , which will recognise both the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and the International Committee of the Red Cross as international organisation . these be important change give that neither be recognise as such under UK law . current law can not apply as neither be an intergovernmental organisation , so a new enable power be necessary . the cpa do vital work in promote parliamentary democracy throughout the Commonwealth , but its current set up as a UK charity be a cause for concern among some member and be somewhat restrictive . the Bill seek to address that . the Commonwealth be a unique club of nation unite by our share historical and economic tie , alongside a share belief in the value of democracy and the rule of law . in an increasingly hostile world where the rule of ruthless autocrat be on the rise and democratic right be under threat , advance those basic value and support the flourishing of parliamentary democracy throughout the Commonwealth remain as important now as it be when the cpa be first found in 1911 . that be why the Bill be so important to ensure the cpa remain relevant and well place to promote parliamentary democracy throughout the Commonwealth . that will allow the cpa to participate more fully internationally than it do today , remove some of the restriction on it . More than 60 country and jurisdiction participate in the cpa , as well as more than 180 legislator . it help to increase the participation of under - represent group in Commonwealth Parliaments , include woman , disabled people and young people . the organisation also do vital work to help develop share learning throughout parliamentary democracy across the Commonwealth , facilitate knowledge - sharing and help to strengthen our democratic system . the second organisation that the Bill focus on , the International Committee of the Red Cross , do hugely important humanitarian work to protect victim of conflict and violence around the world . this week , the Prime Minister announce the Government ' s commitment to increase spending on defence to 2 . 5 % , which be incredibly welcome , particularly as it will be fund through much - need efficiency saving in Whitehall rather than tax rise . it reflect the increase threat we face from our adversary globally in an increasingly insecure world . the work of the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement be more important than ever . conflict have ignite around the world , whether follow Putin ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine , or the horrific turmoil in the middle east , in Gaza and Israel . in addition to Ukraine , Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories , the icrc have key operation in Afghanistan , the Democratic Republic of the Congo , Ethiopia , the Sahel , Sudan , Syria and Yemen . in all such conflict , innocent civilian be catch up in the violence and harm by the result of war , and that be why the Bill be so essential . alongside the cpa , the Bill also seek to recognise the icrc properly as an international organisation . under international law — through the Geneva convention — the icrc already have a specific and unique humanitarian mandate to act in time of international conflict , and it have be give wide recognition internationally through the right of a humanitarian initiative . More than 110 state around the world have already recognise the icrc and give it equivalent status to an international organisation , so it be only right that the UK follow suit . that be particularly important as it would allow the icrc to operate in the UK while preserve its core principle of neutrality and independence . a number of amendment agree in Committee far improve the quality of the Bill , particularly those on the importance of the confidentiality of the information that the icrc provide to the Government and during legal proceeding . as my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke say , confidentiality be critical and remain a fundamental principle of the icrc . those change be eminently sensible , give the sensitivity of the information that will often be deal with in such circumstance . that be particularly important in protect victim during conflict and bring justice through criminal prosecution to those who commit such crime . I again congratulate my right hon . friend and thank she for bring forward the Bill . I wish it well on its continued passage through the other place . I be delighted to see you in the Chair , Mr Speaker — long may you reign . it be a privilege to speak in favour of the Bill introduce by my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) . I pay huge tribute to she , as she have be the flag - bearer for the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association for the whole time I have be in this House — four and a half year . one of the first conversation we ever have be about how important it be , particularly for a new Member of Parliament , to be part of the cpa . I take she at her word , and I have be delighted to be involve in that brilliant association . can we also pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke for the work she do with new parliamentarian when we come into the House ? she specifically promote woman in this Parliament in order to reach 50 : 50 status . this be about not just the work she have do for the cpa , but what she have do for woman in this place . absolutely . I will not spare my right hon . friend ' s blush : she be not only a brilliant parliamentarian , but she support new Members of Parliament , and I have be the beneficiary of her advice . I have be the supporter of the incredible work of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association for many year , and this Bill will cement in law the difference it have make across our beloved Commonwealth over the past 76 year . I also welcome the Bill as it recognise the work the icrc do to support region in crisis . from Australia to Anguilla , from Botswana to the British Virgin Islands , the cpa be crucial in keep all parliamentarian connect across the globe , share good practice , help we to learn from each other and foster friendly , positive and long - last friendship across the 180 Parliaments and legislature that make up the Commonwealth family . as my hon . friend be make her remark about how we learn from other Parliaments , I recall sit in the New Zealand Parliament for question one morning , where the Speaker take an interesting role . if the Speaker be not satisfied with an answer the Minister give , he ask for the question to be answer again . do she think we should consider do that here as well ? I can always do that if you want ! [ laughter . ] my right hon . friend make a good point , and I be sure those on the Front Bench would be delighted to comment on it in their speech . the icrc be an essential partner for achieve the three core objective of the UK ' s humanitarian framework , which be : " prioritise humanitarian assistance to people in great need and provide they with what they need the most to recover from crisis ; protect the people most at risk , include from conflict - relate sexual violence and barrier to humanitarian assistance ; prevent and anticipate future shock and build resilience in long - run crisis by tackle the underlie driver of crisis , instability , and extreme food insecurity " . nobody could ever argue with any of that . the icrc be much respected , not only in this country , but abroad . it carry with it an unparalleled ability to engage with all party engage in a conflict and it support innocent civilian catch up in the crossfire . the amendment table by my right hon . friend in Committee be crucial to the successful operation of the icrc . amendment 1 and 2 be design to protect information that the icrc provide in confidence to the Government from be use in UK civil court proceeding . icrc information be use in legal proceeding be a real risk and concern . I be surprised to learn that in the past 15 year the icrc ' s confidentiality have be challenge some 20 time in the UK , be it in respect of disclose information regard its work with british force abroad or of its dialogue with a variety of actor on the global stage . today , I will be focus my comment on the cpa , as I have be fortunate to work closely with it during my time in this place . before my hon . friend leave the subject of the icrc , let I take the opportunity again to highlight the importance of the amendment introduce in Committee . she reiterate the number of time the icrc have be threaten with have to divulge very confidential information . do she , like I , hope that that be take into consideration when the Bill go to the other place ? obviously , provide that confidentiality and the need not to divulge such information except in criminal case be an important step . do she agree that we need to make sure those provision be in place for civil case as soon as possible ? I hope that no debate in the Lords will delay their come into effect . I thank my right hon . friend for her intervention ; she make a serious point . if organisation such as the International Committee of the Red Cross be to succeed in their objective , they have to be trust in the region and country they serve . they have to deal with people who we may not wish to deal with ourselves to bring an end to conflict , or even to safeguard civilian ' life and prevent sexual violence in conflict . I hope the other place , which tend to be clear when scrutinise Bills , will see her point and will accept those amendment and not change the Bill . as I say , I would like to move on and concentrate my remark on the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association because of the work that I have be delighted to undertake with that brilliant organisation . as a one - term MP — I can confirm that I will be a one - term MP , because I be stand down at the next election — and as the MP for Cities of London and Westminster at this point , I have be proud to support the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association . in fact , only this week I be honour to speak to a delegation from the malaysian Parliament , include his Excellency Johari Abdul , Speaker of the House of Representatives , as well as member of the House of Representatives ' special Select Committees and several parliamentary official . it be fascinating as usual to learn how similar our parliamentary procedure be , such as timetabling , where our model very much mirror theirs . that be bar the malaysian Parliament ' s provision in the procedure — you may be interested to learn this , Mr Speaker — for the Head of State to make a statement every morning . it could be interesting to introduce that practice here in the Commons . I be not sure whether his Majesty would like to come every day to make a speech . I personally — order . also , his Majesty be not allow into the House of Commons . I have forget that small point . maybe we should just move on . the malaysian version of the Procedure Committee — I be proud to sit on the UK ' s Procedure Committee — be call the standing order committee . I be ask to speak to the malaysian delegation about the procedure of the House of Commons — how business be table , the Standing Orders and my experience on the Procedure Committee . what a week to be discuss the procedure of Parliament . it be fortunate that I be able to use a certain Act , the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act 2024 , which we see this week with its extend ping - pong , to demonstrate how the UK Parliament work in practice . do my hon . friend recognise not only that the work she do on the Procedure Committee help shape this Parliament , but the importance of people visit Parliament and see the procedure ? when we talk about the life of an MP when we go to local school , they always ask we , " what ' s a typical day in Parliament ? " it be so difficult to explain that , because there be no typical day in Parliament . some day we can finish at 5 o ' clock ; some day we can be sit here at midnight . the work we do to teach other about the way this Parliament work and about our job on a day - to - day basis be so important . my hon . friend be absolutely right , and it be fascinating this week for the malaysian delegation to sit in on Deputy Prime Minister ' s question . it be quite a raucous episode this week , particularly give the first question . I do not see the delegation afterwards , but I would have be interested to hear their view on our procedure for dpmq . in 2022 , I be delighted to address delegate from the Isle of Man when I represent cpa UK . I be able to discuss my experience of manage parliamentary responsibility , include Committee work , attendance in the Chamber , constituency work and personal commitment . that go back to the point my hon . friend just make : there be never a typical day in the life of an MP . I can come into this place with my meeting for the day in my diary , and then all of a sudden there be an urgent question or a statement that I want to be part of and then my diary be completely change . it be a fascinating job to do , and I be sure it be the same everywhere — from the conversation I have have with parliamentarian across the globe , parliamentary procedure be never one - size - fit - all . I personally find meet those delegation , whether in this country or abroad , very enlightening . I encourage all member of the House to work with the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association to meet , learn from and share insight with other parliamentarian from across the Commonwealth , although there will be many mp who will not be come back to this place because of retirement or whatever . on the point about Members ' engagement , the hon . Lady will know that I be privileged to be the treasurer of the cpa branch — the right hon . member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) be the chair — and we spend a lot of time try to encourage both long - serve and new member not to be afraid of the cpa , but to come and take part in inward delegation and , ideally , engage in our work abroad . my hope be that this Bill and this debate on the Floor of the House highlight again the successful work of the cpa that the hon . Lady be canter through , which hopefully mean that member now and member after a general election will be encourage to work with it . do she agree ? I absolutely agree with the hon . member . it be very important that any candidate who be seek to become a parliamentarian and be successful , whenever a general election may be , do get involve in the cpa once they arrive here . it be an enlightening experience and it help we as parliamentarian to be learn from other , not just in the United Kingdom , but across the globe . it do feel as though my hon . friend and I have be here for a lifetime , but when we enter as new parliamentarian , one of the fear over engage with the like of the cpa be the public ' s reflection on the travel and so on . it be vital that we highlight in this Chamber how important it be for parliamentarian to be able to witness how parliament work in other part of the world . do she agree that it be important that , through these debate , we continue to highlight the importance of the cpa , so that member do not avoid engage with the like of the cpa through fear ? I completely agree . although this be the mother of all Parliaments — it have be here for a thousand year or more — we really should be able to learn from other . I thank my hon . friend for give way . my other hon . friend , the Member for Hyndburn ( Sara Britcliffe ) , be right to point out the need for we to explain the benefit of the cpa , because much of our day - to - day work as Members be connect to the grassroot of what we do in our constituency , but the role of a parliamentarian be so much great than that . I will give an example . my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) be talk about her meeting with the malaysian Parliament early this week . I have the great pleasure of meet the hon . rodiyah binti Sapiee , who be a Member of the Malaysian Parliament and be a new regional representative for the Commonwealth Women Parliamentarians network . we have not touch upon that organisation much in this debate so far , but it be there to support elect member , very much in the way that my hon . friend the Member for Hyndburn speak about — support new member to do their job as well as they can , and hopefully retain they work in Parliament for long . the malaysian Parliament have 28 female member , just 13 . 5 % of their parliamentarian , and we discuss way to increase the number of woman parliamentarian . do my hon . friend agree that we can learn from each other about these question in our Parliaments throughout the Commonwealth because we have such similar set - up ? order . I be be very generous in allow the scope to be broaden somewhat . I now look forward to hear more from Nickie Aiken . thank you , Mr Speaker . I agree with my right hon . friend about woman support woman . we do a great job of support woman in this Parliament and I be delighted to be part of her cross - party woman in parliament group . we have to have strength in number and we have to encourage more woman to stand , whether in cpa country or our own , because we have to hear woman ' s voice in politic . do my hon . friend agree this be not just about encourage woman but — I consider myself to be a relatively young person — it be also about include more young people into parliamentary democracy across the Commonwealth ? I thank my hon . friend for his point , and I believe the cpa can be a force for good in share good practice for encourage people from all walk of life to enter politic . I be about to go on to talk about my experience with the cpa in Grenada , where there be many young people who have be elect for the first time . it strengthen all democracy if they represent the people they be there to serve . as I be the young on our Benches — I be not 30 yet , thankfully — may I ask my hon . friend to explain how Grenada manage to get young people into its Parliament and also how they can feel they can stay in the job ? one of the problem young people , and all member of Parliament , face be the rise in abuse on social medium , which can strongly put people off enter this place . People enter this place to do good thing for their constituent , and that be not always reflect through our medium and social medium . how be other Parliaments across the Commonwealth tackling that ? order . this debate be about the movement and transfer of the cpa . I have get to be a little bit careful because other people may want to stretch the scope of other Bills when we do not want they stretch . this be an important subject and the House be very supportive , but we must ensure that we stick within the term of the Bill . I just reiterate that I support the point my hon . friend have just make , because it be important that we make sure that the cpa be a force for good . in the Cities of London and Westminster , the Commonwealth be right at home . we be fortunate to host the international headquarters of the Commonwealth secretariat and the Commonwealth Foundation in Marlborough House , and of course the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association for the United Kingdom operate from here in the mother of all Parliaments . my hon . friend be right to bring up the importance of the international secretariat be here right in the heart of Westminster , and that have enable we to work with it as cpa UK and as the UK Parliament . around International Women ' s Day , for example , we work with it to deal with online abuse , which have just be raise . we set up — as we can now with the advent of the widespread use of Teams and other facility for online meeting — online training for woman parliamentarian across the Commonwealth . do my hon . friend agree that that be just one example of how we can work as a team with the cpa , and how have it so close to we here in Parliament help we effectively support its work in this way ? I absolutely agree . that go to the heart of the Bill — the status of the cpa and whether we can consolidate it . we be just across the road from the Foreign Office , and this be about work together for the soft power element that the Government be focus on . the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association work , as many here will know , to promote parliamentary democracy and good governance . it be completely non - partisan . I have thoroughly enjoy meeting and get to know parliamentarian from a wide range of country and political party . back in March last year , I be fortunate enough to be invite to be a member of the cpa UK delegation to the stunning island of Grenada in the Caribbean , where I be honour to meet Prime Minister Dickon Mitchell . that be my first trip for the cpa , and what a fascinating one it be . I pay tribute to the cpa officer , Martin Vickery , who be outstanding on the trip , and I know that the Clerk at the table , who be also there , will always remember it . it be my first experience of the cpa in action . Grenada have have the same Government and Prime Minister for 22 of the previous 27 year , but Dickon Mitchell defeat the incumbent , Keith Mitchell , who be seek his sixth term , in the 2022 election . I wonder whether a Prime Minister have ever before succeed another with the same surname . the incumbent New National party have have all 15 seat in the Grenadian Parliament , but after the 2022 election , it be suddenly in opposition , as Dickon Mitchell ' s National Democratic Congress take nine of the available seat . the election bring about certain new challenge for the Parliament of Grenada , for the National Democratic Congress , which have no experience in government , and for the New National party , which have not be in opposition for decade . that go back to the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) about have new and young parliamentarian . none of the mp elect for the National Democratic Congress have ever be elect or even be in politic before — the Prime Minister , Dickon Mitchell , have be a solicitor — so it be fascinating for the cpa UK to be invite over to undertake a series of workshop on how to be scrutinise , and , equally importantly , on how to scrutinise . I be join on the trip by the hon . member for Bristol East ( Kerry McCarthy ) , and by my hon . friend the Member for East Kilbride , Strathaven and Lesmahagow ( Dr Cameron ) , who be then a member of the Scottish National party at the time but have since defect to the conservative party — although I would not take any credit for persuade she on the trip that she be a Conservative . in Grenada , I also work very closely with Leo Cato , the Speaker of the House of Representatives of Grenada , and with Dessima Williams , the President of the Senate of Grenada . Dessima Williams be a former communist who be very much part of the revolution in Grenada in the early ' 80 . we — two woman politician from completely different side of the political divide — bond so incredibly well , and that underline how important it be that the Bill secure the cpa ' s status . Ms Williams say to I as I leave , " only the cpa could bring a communist and a conservative together . " I think that be a clear example of how parliamentarian , no matter their political persuasion , can put their political party aside and work together for the great good . that be the extraordinary power that the cpa provide . during my trip , I also meet woman ' s right campaigner , people work to improve disability right and service and , very importantly , the Youth Parliament and climate change campaigner . this go back to what my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South say early . we meet the Youth Parliament , and they be outstanding young people who want to make a difference for their country . as a woman ' s right campaigner , I find it fascinating to talk to other campaigner who be work very hard to tackle violence against woman and girl . our trip coincide with International Women ' s Day , and I be privileged to be invite to make a speech at the Prime Minister ' s event to over 100 grenadian schoolgirl — although , I do not expect it to be air live on grenadian tv , which be an experience . I be then delighted to welcome Speaker Cato and the President of the Senate , Dr Williams , to my constituency only a few week ago during the 75th anniversary of the Commonwealth of Nations celebration , which be preside over by Mr Speaker . my brilliant constituency team thoroughly enjoy discuss with they the day - to - day work of an MP ' s office , and hear how this differ from their experience in some way but also mirror they in other . we be also join by Chantelle de Jonge , a Member of the Legislative Assembly of Alberta , in Canada . that be a clear example of how the cpa bring parliamentarian from across different country together . my hon . friend be talk eloquently and with a great deal of passion about her visit to Grenada . her visit be just one of a number of different delegation that the cpa UK send out , thank to the financial support of this place and the other place , to ensure that Members of Parliament can carry out the work and relationship development she mention . do she agree that it be very important that Parliament continue to reiterate its support for cpa UK , give the good store that Members of Parliament set by it ? they feel very strongly about the work of the cpa ; it be a real priority for parliamentarian . the cpa must therefore continue to be a financial priority for Parliament . I completely agree , which be why I be fully supportive of the objective of the Bill . I also agree with the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) when she say in Committee that " this Bill create equal partner in the Commonwealth , rather than the more outdated model where the UK take the leadership " . – – [ Official Report , Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and International Committee of the Red Cross ( Status ) Public Bill Committee , 6 March 2024 ; c . 6 . ] the Bill provide the necessary delegate legislation - make power for the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and the International Committee of the Red Cross to be treat in a manner comparable to an international organisation of which the UK be a member . due to the power under the International Development Act 2002 and the International Organisations Act 1968 , which be even old than I be , the Government have not be able to treat the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association or the International Committee of the Red Cross as international organisation to which they be party , because neither organisation be an intergovernmental organisation . instead , both have their own unique constitutional arrangement , reflect their specific international priority . therefore , it be absolutely necessary to establish special power to enable the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and the International Committee of the Red Cross to operate in the United Kingdom . it be welcome that the Bill be support by party from across the House . it will provide the International Committee of the Red Cross with more protection for its work . the Bill will ensure that the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association can continue to strengthen democracy and encourage cross - party work . I look forward to support the Bill through its stage and once again congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke on her outstanding work to get we where we be today . I call the shadow Minister . I pay tribute to the right hon . member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) , whose dedication and commitment to this matter have be a labour of love over the past two year , and the reason we be all here today . I also pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Ogmore ( Chris Elmore ) , whose work on the cpa , both here in the UK and internationally , have be critical in help we get to where we be now . I thank the hon . member for Hyndburn ( Sara Britcliffe ) , for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) and for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) for their support and for their eloquent speech today . the cpa be a highly value organisation . many of we on both side of the House have benefit from its work and will continue to do so for year to come , so I be pleased to support the Bill today on behalf of the Opposition . it could not be well time : we celebrate the 75th anniversary of the Commonwealth early this month , with a two - day conference here in Westminster host by Mr Speaker . I thank he for do so , and for his work in pull the issue together and ensure that they remain prominent . the Commonwealth have grow from a group of eight country in 1949 to a diverse body of 56 nation , with a population of 2 . 5 billion today . its member range from large , develop country to those that be emerge and develop , include some of the small nation on earth . I be recently fortunate enough to travel with a cpa delegation to Belize , and it be great to be there as part of my brief in the shadow Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office team , meet member of its Parliament and learn how it work , and meeting official , committee member , member of the Belize Government and the Speaker . the visit allow we to build critical relationship and an understanding of the challenge that the country face . as we have hear from other member on both side of the House , these relationship be crucial throughout the Commonwealth , and I think we can all agree that today we should celebrate it for the modern institution that it be — one of which we can be proud . I also want to put on the record that Labour be keen to ensure that the cpa headquarters stay right here in Westminster , in London , as the Bill intend . labour be very proud of the cpa ' s ongoing role in bring together and liaise between the Parliaments in the Commonwealth family from the very building that inspire the way in which most of the Commonwealth be govern today . it be important for the cpa to be grant privilege and immunity similar to those enjoy by comparable organisation such as the Commonwealth Foundation and the Commonwealth of Learning . that enhanced status will strengthen the influence of Commonwealth parliamentarian and give the cpa a more authoritative presence internationally , and I know that Parliaments and parliamentarian across the Commonwealth will welcome it , because it will have a positive impact on the wide Commonwealth and help to maintain unity and stability in time when the international order , parliamentary democracy and human right face huge and serious challenge . the hon . Lady have touch on the importance of the privilege and immunity afford by the Bill , not only to the cpa but to the icrc . do she agree that it be important that the Government have give undertaking that those immunity , when they be set out in secondary legislation , will be discuss in detail beforehand with the necessary party in both organisation to ensure that the Bill work in the way that be intend ? I absolutely agree with the right hon . Lady , and I will ask that of the Government . I thank she for point it out . I be pleased that the Bill seek to grant the cpa a bespoke legal status , like that enjoy by the Inter - Parliamentary Union in swiss law and by the Assembl é e Parlementaire de la Francophonie , our french equivalent , in french law . hold a legal status akin to our parliamentary strengthening counterpart should enhance the organisation ' s stand . if the cpa be not grant this legal status , there be a real risk of inter - parliamentary division and fragmentation , which could have broad ramification for the unity of the Commonwealth . the International Committee of the Red Cross be a neutral , independent and impartial humanitarian organisation , mandate by the international community to protect and assist victim of armed conflict and other situation of violence . the icrc have be grant privilege and immunity by 109 state , and the UK be not one of they . that absence have result in significant operational challenge , and the granting of privilege and immunity have become a matter of urgency . obtain privilege and immunity in the UK would facilitate the icrc ' s operational capacity to fulfil its mandate and manage its resource in a manner most beneficial to all affected and impact people . it would also protect the icrc ' s ability to act as , and to be perceive as , a neutral , independent and impartial humanitarian actor , and it would protect the confidential nature of the icrc ' s work . it be essential that the icrc remain neutral and independent , as it be only through strict adherence to these principle that it can obtain the trust of party to and victim of armed conflict , as well as actor in other situation of violence . this trust be crucial in secure humanitarian access to some of the most contested conflict zone . this Bill go a long way in address the above and provide the mean for the icrc to obtain only the privilege and immunity strictly necessary for its functioning . this include immunity from legal process for the icrc and its staff , the inviolability of its property , and the protection of confidential icrc information hold by the UK Government from disclosure in legal proceeding . I ask the Minister to reaffirm his assurance in Committee that the require secondary legislation will be bring forward as soon as possible . will he commit to consult both the icrc and the cpa ahead of that secondary legislation , to ensure the appropriate privilege and immunity for each organisation ? I be pleased to support this Bill on behalf of the Opposition , and I commend the work that have go into it right across the House , and particularly from the right hon . member for Basingstoke . if we fail to get this right , it would deal a real blow to the role of this House and the Government on the world stage . it would be see as a symbol of our lack of commitment , and it would damage the potential of the cpa , a grow and unique global organisation , at a time when we should be redouble our effort to engage with our Commonwealth partner and seek to expand the Commonwealth . I be confident there be a will on all side to ensure that the Bill succeed . it be a genuine pleasure to speak at the Dispatch Box on behalf of my right hon . friend the Deputy Foreign Secretary , and it be a pleasure for various reason . I suspect this will be one of my least challenging appearance at the Dispatch Box , because my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) have garner so much support for these measure across the House and in Government . it be a pleasure to appear opposite , and respond to once again , the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Cardiff North ( Anna McMorrin ) , who shadow I in my role before she be move to a different team . it be also important to put on record our gratitude , as my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) do . we be grateful to she , to my hon . friend the Member for Bridgwater and West Somerset ( Mr Liddell - Grainger ) for his work , to Stephen Twigg and his staff , to Mr Speaker , and indeed to the Comptroller of his Majesty ' s Household , my hon . friend the Member for Castle Point ( Rebecca Harris ) , who with the Bill , as with many other , have do so much as the Whip to ensure that it have progress smoothly and be — hopefully — within touching distance of become law . I will pay my own tribute to the Comptroller of his Majesty ' s household later , when we come to my Bill . on private Member ' Bills , this show the House at its good . I think these measure have be debate in a ten - minute rule Bill and a previous private Member ' s Bill , and I infer from the right hon . member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) that this be a presentation Bill . that show the importance of the work of the House on a sitting Friday to push through to the other place such legislation , which be so important internationally to so many of our Commonwealth partner , as well as , obviously , the Red Cross . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . I often say when I be talk to school or more broadly in my constituency — I suspect he do so in his — that if our electorate want to see the House at its good , they should watch the Chamber on a sitting Friday when we be debate private Member ' Bills : there be often much cross - party co - operation and enlightening debate . one go away not only have hopefully move thing forward and achieve something , but have learn something . before I turn to the substance of the Bill , I have a couple of other point to make . I turn briefly to the suggestion make by my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke and my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) about , I think , the Canadian Parliament — New Zealand . I be sorry ; the New Zealand Parliament , which give the power to the Speaker or the Chair that if a Minister have not be deem by the Chair to have give a sufficiently accurate or appropriate answer to a question , they could have the question re - put to the Minister . I gently say to my right hon . friend that while that be an interesting suggestion , it would be entirely redundant in this place , give how Ministers always answer directly the question pose to they as fully and helpfully as they can . the other reason it be a genuine pleasure to be here be that the Bill have be bring forward by my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke . the hon . member for Ogmore ( Chris Elmore ) highlight that she have be forcefully push this issue to a conclusion . I must say that , have have the pleasure of work with she on various amendment to legislation in the past , I have always find it wise to agree with she . I be therefore pleased to confirm the Government ' s support for the Bill . it be wise to agree with she , not least because generally she be right in the point she be make , as I know from experience . so it be a genuine pleasure to speak on her Bill on this occasion . I recognise in do so her work as chair of the cpa as well as her work with the Westminster Foundation for Democracy and the huge value that that add . this be a hugely important Bill , reflect on two important organisation . in what can appear to be a fractured and increasingly dangerous world , it be important that we remember and reinforce the role of democracy as a bulwark against authoritarianism and totalitarianism , and indeed the conflict that can often flow from those . in respect of the cpa , my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) set out clearly the importance of its work to promote parliamentary democracy and good government through a range of activity and in a range of forum . it be open and wide - range in its promotion of democracy within the Commonwealth context . it be non - partisan and non - prescriptive . it do a huge amount of work to capture the good of parliamentary democracy across the Commonwealth , propagate it and reinforce it . it be also important , as the shadow Minister do , to recognise the importance of the Commonwealth in that context . she rightly highlight its 75th anniversary . it be an institution of endure success and endure value . we can genuinely characterise it as the Commonwealth family of nation , because we do view all the other member of the Commonwealth as family , as I hope they would view we . the icrc be found 160 year ago . it be " an impartial , neutral and independent organisation whose exclusively humanitarian mission be to protect the life and dignity of victim of armed conflict and other situation of violence and to provide they with assistance . " that be from the ICRC mandate . its unique international humanitarian mandate and mission have be formally recognise , as the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Cardiff North highlight , by state in the Geneva convention and their additional protocol . this organisation have unique legitimacy to engage all party to conflict and have unparallele access to vulnerable group in conflict situation . it be frequently the only agency operate at scale in many conflict . as we look around the world at the conflict rage , its work have never be more important . it be a pleasure to confirm the Government ' s full support for the Bill and to thank those member who have contribute today . as set out by my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke , the Bill will enable the Government to treat the cpa and icrc in a manner genuinely comparable to that of an international organisation of which the UK or his Majesty ' s Government in the United Kingdom be a member . the UK have , as I have highlight , a huge and long - stand partnership with the cpa , and we recognise the work it do . the UK also view the icrc as an essential partner for achieve our global humanitarian objective , with the organisation have unique legitimacy to engage all party to conflict and unparalleled access . it also operate in some of the most challenging situation that anyone could face . its specialised role in engage with all arm bearer , include the grow number of non - state armed group , be couple with its direct delivery of a comprehensive range of integrated humanitarian assistance and protection programme . treatment as an international organisation will allow both the cpa and the icrc to deliver their objective while operate in the UK . in the case of the cpa , it will facilitate the organisation to operate fully across the Commonwealth and international fora , include in area where it be currently restrict by its charitable status . while it be not possible under the International Organisations Act 1968 , as be highlight by my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster , to accord it the privilege and status it need , this legislation fill that gap . for the icrc , treatment as an international organisation will critically enable it to operate in the UK in accordance with its international mandate , maintain its strict adherence to the principle of neutrality , impartiality and independence and its standard working method of confidentiality , which be design to protect its staff and operation in active conflict zone . the public disclosure of information that the icrc obtain from confidential dialogue with conflict party be likely to put that at risk . it be also a principle that underpin its ability to operate in dangerous location on sensitive issue , engage with state and non - state actor . the Bill have therefore be amend to include a provision for the protection of certain information relate to the icrc ' s sensitive work that it have provide in confidence to his Majesty ' s Government , to stop it be use in court proceeding , except for criminal proceeding . the Government consider this provision necessary , but proportionate . treatment as an international organisation include the provision of privilege and immunity necessary to meet the functional need of the cpa and icrc in the UK . in provide these privilege and immunity , we will strengthen our partnership with both the cpa and icrc respectively . it will enable these two key partner to well deliver their objective . the list of privilege and immunity that might be confer on the cpa and icrc have be inform by the 1968 Act . that will allow the Government to agree a framework that be unique and appropriate to each organisation ' s unique mandate . the actual suite of privilege and immunity to be accord , include relevant exception and limitation , will be determine base on the functional need of each organisation and will be specify in secondary legislation and Order in Council . for example , the arrangement will make it clear , as be standard practice , that there will be no immunity from legal suit in the case of a motor traffic offence or damage cause by a motor vehicle . the financial implication of the Bill be minimal , and there will be little or no loss of revenue as a result of the fiscal exemption or relief , which again will be grant by delegate legislation through the provision in the Bill . as be standard practice for international organisation , certain taxis will be refund in accordance with the separate arrangement between the Government and the cpa and icrc , respectively . in response to a point make by my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke — the shadow Minister kindly give I advance warning that she would also raise it in her speech — I be happy to reconfirm that the specific arrangement will be draw up in active consultation with the cpa and with the icrc , respectively . I realise that the Minister be make a Third reading speech so it be important not to go into detail , but this element be introduce in Committee , and we do not have the advantage of a Report stage . I would like to press the Government on this particular point , because the privilege and immunity section of the Bill be clearly set out but it be important that those affect by the Bill understand that those privilege and immunity be yet to be agree with the Government . it be important that they be agree well in advance of be lay before Parliament , so that everybody can be sight on what they mean in practice . as ever , my right hon . friend be right . therefore , subject to the passage of this legislation and prior to those regulation be introduce , until they come into force , they do not come into force . we will work closely with those organisation so that when those regulation be lay and approve , hopefully there will be no surprise in they because they will have work collaboratively with we to draw they up . the arrangement will detail the day - to - day management of the privilege and immunity grant to both organisation on a functional need basis , and other facility . furthermore , administration of the arrangement will be resource from the exist resource responsible for manage privilege and immunity with international organisation in the UK . the Bill strengthen our commitment to the work of the Commonwealth and our support of democratic legislator through our work with the cpa . it will also support the fcdo ' s global humanitarian objective , ensure that the UK remain at the heart of an unrivalled global network for economic , diplomatic and security partnership through our work with the icrc . hon . member raise a couple of point , which I will turn to before conclude . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) for a wide ranging , informative and typically well - inform contribution . crave your indulgence , Madam Deputy Speaker , may I take just a minute , as I be conscious that my hon . friend have announce that she will not seek re - election at the next general election , and who know whether I will get another opportunity at the Dispatch Box ? let I put on record my gratitude to she for everything she have do . she and I serve together as fellow ward councillor on Westminster City Council before I be elect to this place and she be subsequently elect . she be a fierce champion for what she believe to be right for her constituent and her community , and she have demonstrate that as a councillor and leader of the council and now as a Member of Parliament . she will be hugely miss by her constituent and by this House . my hon . friend the Member for Hyndburn ( Sara Britcliffe ) ask what support his Majesty ' s Government will give , beyond this legislation , to both the organisation that we be debate . his Majesty ' s Government give the icrc £ 48 million of core funding annually , and up to £ 100 million in bilateral donation . we have a long - stand and robust relationship with the icrc and a track record of support it . my understanding be that we fund cpa International to the tune of £ 196 , 000 , and we give cpa UK £ 235 , 000 . we support they through not only this legislation and what we say in this House but tangible financial support . in an ever more challenging global context , his Majesty ' s Government and my right hon . friend the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Secretary remain committed to work with and support the work of the cpa and the icrc . this Bill give both organisation the status in legislation that they need and deserve to continue their international operation without impediment ; it reflect our commitment . I once again congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke . the Government continue to support the Bill , and I commend it to the House . with the leave of the House , I call Dame Maria Miller to wind up the debate . I thank the Minister for his comment . I be grateful to everybody who take part in the debate , include my hon . friend the Members for Hyndburn ( Sara Britcliffe ) , for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) and for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) , the hon . member for Ogmore ( Chris Elmore ) — I give he a special call - out , as he be the treasurer of the cpa — and the hon . member for Cardiff North ( Anna McMorrin ) . I thank they for their fulsome support for this Bill . I particularly thank the Minister for set out so clearly how he will treat the secondary legislation that be require to make this Bill work . I join he in thank the comptroller of his Majesty ' s Household , my hon . friend the Member for Castle Point ( Rebecca Harris ) , whom I do not thank early . we be never quite sure how to thank whip in this place , but I thank she very much for her incredible support — she be involve in all thing to do with the fcdo . I thank everybody in the House of Commons for their great support in recognise the icrc and the cpa as international organisation . this Bill will help both organisation to do their job even well . I thank the Minister and his colleague at the fcdo for their unstinting support , which I hope continue as the Bill pass to the other place . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . high Streets ( Designation , Review and Improvement Plan ) Bill Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee , consider . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . I be delighted to be able to express thank to colleague from across the House for their support for this important Bill . I be grateful to the Minister and his official for their highly constructive engagement at every stage . it have be enormously helpful to draw on the Department ' s formidable professionalism and expertise . I thank the Whips Office , and particularly the Comptroller of his Majesty ' s Household , my hon . friend the Member for Castle Point ( Rebecca Harris ) , for all her support . I thank the House staff in the Public Bill Office for their support . I also thank the many organisation and individual who have help to inform this Bill through conversation I have have with they and report I have read over many year . I have manage to bring they together thank to the private Member ' s Bill ballot . I be a passionate believer in local government . my experience at Stoke - on - Trent City Council as a cabinet member for regeneration , transport and heritage inform much of my keen interest in high street and how to deliver the mechanism that will co - ordinate preserve and enhance they . from my most recent engagement , I particularly thank the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors , the British Property Federation , Power to Change , the British Retail Consortium and the Local Government Association for add greatly to my thinking and my determination to secure a Bill with cross - party support . many conversation with local body , individual and business over the year have inform the Bill and I place on record my thank to they all . most recently , I meet representative of the Stoke - on - Trent business improvement district , and I be delighted that they support my Bill . no Bill be without critic , but where I have encounter they , they have be good natured and constructive . for the most part , we have resolve our difference through clarification and amendment in Committee . it be a necessary debate and it have be conduct well . I seem to have strike a chord with member across the House in argue that local authority should be guide towards well co - ordination in ensure that they understand the dynamic of local high street in our constituency , and should work in concert with local community , property owner and high street business to preserve and enhance those treasured place in a way that serve and grow our local economy . our high street be the beat heart of our community , which be again evident at the vibrant Longton carnival and pig walk parade in my constituency last weekend . it be incredible to see thousand of people flock to the town centre . huge thank go to all the volunteer , particularly those in Urban Wilderness and Longton Exchange shopping centre who help organise the event . it be also fantastic to see the expansion of the number of retailer that be set up and the business that be open in Longton . we have see a reduce number of empty space , particularly in the Longton Exchange shopping centre , with new independent retailer set up . they include keep it local and so Very Dog and also , across the road from my office , the oatcake shop Linny ' s Kitchen , which I occasionally like to pop into for my lunch . I also detect a strong belief that we as member should be active participant in agree local designation , contribute to review , and compile or comment on improvement plan for our area . the hon . member for Birmingham , Erdington ( Mrs Hamilton ) make an excellent and passionate speech in Committee in support of the principle of the Bill and how determined she be to see improvement in Erdington that she have be push for as a result of it . I know our high street be close to her heart and I thank she for that powerful contribution . under the Bill , it will be for the Secretary of State to draw up the guidance . as he be an assiduous constituency MP , I be confident that he will have read the mood of the House that Members should be include as consultee . that be important , because it be also implicit in the Bill that local authority will occasionally designate high street that include property that belong to body that be formally accountable to this House , rather than to local government . Network Rail be an obvious example . indeed , in Committee , the Minister reveal that his own local high street area in Redcar include Station Road , which I believe end in Redcar Central station — but I will leave the local knowledge to he . it be important to leave as much of the process as we can as local as possible . I stress that in Committee , follow the passing of the money resolution on 5 March , the Minister explicitly promise money on the table for draw up review of up to three high street area per local authority this money , for up to three designate high street improvement plan , will be on top of that from the various grant - maker with pot of national money — body that be scrutinise by this House — to which any designated high street might appeal to realise improvement and , in particular , to preserve the important heritage and iconic character of many of our high street . it be right that member should be closely involve in help to deliver on improvement plan , develop place partnership that enjoy local support , leverage both local and / or national funding and optimise the co - ordination of exist funding towards a compelling sense of direction for our high street . on Second Reading , I tell the House about the aim I have for the Bill ; the House kindly indulge my half - hour speech cover the issue , and member across the House offer various constructive comment that have lead to further improvement and clarification through amendment that I be able to secure in Committee . I be not intend to speak for quite as long today , but I think the whip be encourage I to do so , so I will indulge the House a little long . we enjoy a comprehensive and informed debate on Second Reading . thank to suggestion from that debate , specifically from my hon . friend the Member for Bury North ( James Daly ) and the hon . member for Reading East ( Matt Rodda ) , the Bill be amend in Committee and now explicitly state that a high street can be designate to cover not just one road , but a collection of adjoining street that be consider locally to be a high street area by virtue of the cluster of high street purpose serve by those street . it be an important improvement to the Bill that it now specifically confirm that flexibility , which have only weakly be implicit in the right to vary designation and not explicit in make they in the first place . my aim have always be that the Bill should be demand , but not onerous ; it seek to co - ordinate exist workstream well , rather than add to net burden , and its provision be deliberately as flexible as possible . it be vital for local community to celebrate and preserve their local point of difference — all those thing that make their particular high street a special place to be for resident and visitor alike . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech on an excellent bill . do he agree that the history and heritage of our town centre can be what really mark they out as different ? Basingstoke be often see as a new town , which could not be further from the truth . it have a 1 , 000 - year - old market and be the birthplace of Jane Austen , the world ' s great novelist . do he agree that we should be make more of that history in our town centre ? I thank my right hon . friend for that excellent point and I entirely agree : that heritage , that historical character of our high street in particular , in many of our town and city right across the country , be so important and we need to make more of that heritage , particularly when think about attract new use to our high street . many of those heritage property can be convert into excellent space for a whole range of new use , attract footfall and new business to the high street . as I be say , the Bill be also about ensure that local authority conform to a national requirement and that they undertake the process of designation , review and improvement in accordance with their local circumstance , with assistance from national dataset and good practice analysis that already exist and can be signpost through the Secretary of State ' s guidance . get the balance right between local difference and national requirement be a concern . it be clear from colleague that the original Bill , which specify that the local authority should designate no more than three high street , be not get the balance right , and that the maximum number of high street designate in each area should be a decision for each local authority . that change be secure in Committee ; if local authority wish to fund designation and review in addition to the three that will be fund by Government , they now can do so . of course , there will be numerous disagreement around which area to designate as high street and when . my own area be a city make up of six town , and there be many other high street right across north Staffordshire . there may well be spirited debate locally about how to improve they . there will even be disagreement , I be sure , about what the Secretary of State ' s guidance should include and what central funding , if any , should be available . this Bill set out a supportive and predictable framework in which such debate can and must take place , bring the focus and direction that our high street desperately need . the Bill directly address a problem highlight in December 2021 by the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee in its excellent report , " support our high street after Covid - 19 " , namely the absence of a plan for ensure that local authority have a capacity to develop effective place partnership and place leadership . the Bill introduce the mechanism of designation and review , under guidance , and this be support with national funding for up to three improvement plan that will be develop in partnership locally , lead by local authority . I completely understand the reaction that local government often have when it feel as though it be be tell it need to do more . my background be at the coalface of local government policymake . that be why I stress that the Bill seek to get local government not so much to do more as to co - ordinate what it do well , with wide input and agreement , and a wide contribution of effort , in implementation and delivery from a range of interested partner in our high street , range from community group to our high street business . I be enthuse by those authority that can already see the benefit of have an improvement plan , and I be pleased that the money resolution mean that the authority that have be hold back by the cost of formulate a plan will have that barrier remove . the Bill provide the policymake structure for motivate action in the use of the many power that already exist and be at the disposal of local authority , and in give well accountability as to their use . the Bill ensure that our community and high street business be empower to call for the improvement that should be outline in each plan . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech on a brilliant Bill that will make such a huge difference . do he agree that the Bill will also give more power to local people , who will be able to hold their local council , its cabinet and their local leader to account ? if they be not do exactly what the Bill ' s objective set out , people can vote they out and bring in a new council that will ensure that its local high street be manage properly and people be give the power they need to grow the local economy . I thank my hon . friend for those kind word of support . she rightly say that this be about accountability and ensure that the people in our local community be in charge of their high street and can ensure that those authority , which have the power to bring about change , be hold to account for that and for their decision . section 215 enforcement notice and other enforcement mechanism will certainly be part of that mix . unfortunately , section 215 power , which be about enforcement where property be in a bad condition and owner be not take responsibility for their building , have not be use in our area . I make a freedom of information request recently about that and we find out that Stoke - on - Trent City Council have not use those power once in the past 12 month . that be shocking , give the blatant need for a carrot and stick approach to address some of the concern about our high street . change of use will also be another aspect of this , and have furth review every five year ensure that improvement plan be live , nimble and able to respond to change view and circumstance . nor should we presume that a plan could consider every eventuality , so although it will be important to give consideration to improvement plan as part of local planning policy , they should not restrict and prevent positive development that may not have be envisage when a plan be formulate . additionally , review can happen more frequently than every five year , if necessary . again , that be far clarify through amendment in Committee . importantly , the Bill do not prescribe that improvement plan must be fully implement , complete and whole within five year . I want to clear up any confusion that there may still be about that . rather , the Bill provide for plan to be more of a moveable feast , subject to periodic review to check on the progress towards delivery of what might be call an " ideal model envisage " . that mean that improvement plan can include long - term ambition , guide principle and characteristic for high street well into the decade ahead , with the ability to finesse those at least every five year . of course , there be the duty not to leave the plan cover dust on a shelf . have a long - term vision that be deliver incrementally with maintain local support be the right thing to do . we can all think of example of fund pot become available for so - call shovel - ready scheme , and many of we will have be frustrate when it turn out that nothing remotely shovel ready be on the book . one of the great lesson of the high street taskforce , which have be usefully embrace by a number of local authority , include Longton , be the importance of get a number of quick win and a number of deliverable scheme within the short term , and have a long - term vision and series of project . the high street taskforce have be an important and productive initiative for local council of all colour , and I hope that its legacy , finding and good practice will live on through the Bill . it be work that deserve to be celebrate and continue , and we should all be grateful for the wealth of knowledge that the taskforce have contribute . the Bill be necessary to institutionalise that legacy far , develop it across local government and local community . have an improvement plan will help provide the basis for help secure future funding , provide a more cohesive plan to help justify investment decision , and will mean that certain scheme can be on the book whenever the funding be available . it also mean that other project that crop up can be knit into the fabric to align well with the long - term strategic vision and priority for an area . without a clear vision of what a preserved and enhance high street area would look like , I suggest that the spending would not be as optimal as it could , or should , be and the funding may not even be win at all . much of the focus for Government investment would be well inform and would deliver well value for money through high street improvement plan . indeed , local authority and place partnership will be able to engage with national body to push for certain optimal scheme or the refinement of they to help deliver great benefit for our high street within the spending envelope . that could mean infrastructure project , such as with organisation like Network Rail and National Highways , environmental enhancement from organisation like the Environment Agency , or major housing delivery on some of our brownfield through organisation like Homes England . it be important that we improve the linkage of national organisation to well understand the need of our local community and high street . improvement plan can help do that through well co - ordination and clarity of direction . high street improvement plan may also be important for Historic England in identify area in need of a partnership scheme in conservation area , know as PSICA . the review of high street will , in some case , draw on conservation area appraisal as well . in some of those case , that will expose the absence of appraisal and will help fill the gap , particularly where condition of those area be poor . it have be exciting to work with Historic England in Longton to help save building on Market Street , and the heritage action zone funding we have secure have help deliver on some of those building . however , it have not deliver on all those building , and we actually have a number of building that be still in a poor state . we have amass knowledge and datum about the ownership and condition of some of those building , and we need to move on to the next stage . I hope we will secure some additional funding for Longton through the heritage lottery fund to help improve and continue some of the good work already start through the PSICA scheme . there be much more work to do , especially in ensure that the traffic flow and public realm be optimise for footfall and dwell time in Longton town centre . I hope the use of some of the levelling - up partnership funding for the town centre will help . also , some of the other plan that we have be develop , particularly around thing like crime and antisocial behaviour , be important for many of our high street and town centre . Longton have recently see a spate of absolutely mindless crime and antisocial behaviour target a number of retailer . in the next few week , I will be meet a number of they alongside Staffordshire police to discuss some of the issue . I have be absolutely delighted to help secure more funding to address some of those issue . work with our fantastic police , fire and crime commissioner , Ben Adams , we manage to secure extra Safer Streets funding for Longton , and for other part of Staffordshire and Stoke - on - Trent , to help deliver the improvement and create the secure high street we need to see . in our case , they include additional CCTV throughout the town centre and gate off some of the alleyway that have attract crime and antisocial behaviour . those measure will help to ensure that people feel safe to visit , and encourage more people to dwell and shop on our high street . only a comprehensive improvement plan can pull together the many factor and aspect that need proper co - ordination for a compelling high street experience . all that can be address in the guidance from the Secretary of State . I hope there will be a role for the Office for Place , now base in Stoke - on - Trent , in optimise the guidance . and it will be guidance , not prescription . I stress here that the Bill do not remove the power of article 4 direction that local authority already enjoy to remove permit development right , if they see fit . that be a decision for they , and it will no doubt be part of the designation process to consider any PDR issue around a high street . in many area , permit development right will actually be key to the enterprise spirit need to revive high street . forward - think council know full well that they can not succeed in their regeneration ambition if they allow themselves to have a reputation among developer of " council say no . " the improvement plan process will ensure that authority be comfortable as enablers of preservation and enhancement . we be bless in Staffordshire , like in many part of the country and particularly in north Staffordshire , to have many iconic high street , whether in the more rural market town of Stone and Cheadle , or in the pottery town of Fenton and Longton that make up part of the city of Stoke - on - Trent . but nearly all of they across the country have face multiple challenge from online , out of town , and , of course , covid - 19 . to conclude , we must act to address that decline , build on the work already be do by the Government through measure such as those set out in the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 , and ensure the power in place have a high likelihood of be utilise . it have be a pleasure to bring the Bill forward and to work with colleague across all party to discuss it , review it and improve it on its passage through the House . we all want to see our high street review and improve . we want they to be preserve and enhance to celebrate their local character . we want great footfall , drive by high street that be safe and pleasant place to be . the Bill ensure that local authority work with property owner , local community and many other to realise that aim , accord to their own local circumstance . it be muscular localism , and I commend it to the House . I congratulate the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) on bring forward such an important Bill . I think every Member of this House will have a problem high street that they feel frustrated about and can not get any work do on . I hope he will allow I to talk about the success in my constituency , which I think echo the sentiment of the Bill and show what can be do when some of the thing he want to see in the Bill be achieve . I want to talk about my hometown of North Shields . North Shields be probably well know for the Fish Quay . the Fish Quay be a shadow of its former self in one way , but because of a lot of work that have be do on development it be now thrive . it be full of restaurant and shop , and we have the fantastic North Shields Fishermen ' s Heritage Project , which have do a lot to highlight and record the history of our town . next year , North Shields will be celebrate its 800th anniversary . I live in North Shields from when I be bear until I be 19 . we live in an upstairs tyneside flat and then , when I be 19 , my family be thrill to move to another great area of North Tyneside , Wallsend , into a brand new council house , when we still have council house be build on a grand scale . that be 1976 , so we can work out my age . North Shields have two high street . the one that run parallel to the river east - west be Saville Street . the one that run north - south be Bedford Street . as in many other town centre , there have be so much decline over the year . various scheme have try to bring the town centre back to life , but there have always be reason why it have not really thrive . town centre and high street be so important because they bring community together , with friend and family shopping and meeting in the same area . when I be young we go shop on a Saturday , and we would not get very far along the high street before our mother see a relative or friend , and there would be little group of people chat and go in and out of the shop . our high street be great community space . go to high street now be very sad , however , because there be no life in they . People be just go into the shop ; one or two might gather to speak to each other , but that buzz have definitely go . however , North Tyneside Council develop a masterplan for the North Shields area , do exactly what the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent South mention : bring community together to talk about what they want . what have help with that be that there have be fund . North Shields have nearly £ 13 million for a transport hub and a new town square to transform the town , make it attractive and family - friendly again with a vibrant , high - quality high street feel . the transport hub open last September , and I be pleased to be there to see that happen . it be amazing . the money that help transform it — the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent South will be able to mention this as an example — come from the transform city fund , which come via Transport North East with help from the North of Tyne Combined Authority and North Tyneside Council — as a proud former council member , I will never fail to sing the praise of the great Labour North Tyneside Council . the transport hub be a major part of North Tyneside ' s ambitious plan to improve North Shields . what be really fantastic about the hub be the public toilet , which be a vital part of any town centre and high street . in the past , because of antisocial behaviour , a lot of public toilet be closed , and shop do not always have toilet that people can use . some people with medical condition really need to know that there will be a toilet in the vicinity when they go out . I know someone with prostate cancer — this example be from my family experience — who carry a card that they can show to access a toilet , if no public toilet be available . but people do not want to have to do that ; they want a bit more dignity and not to have to search around for a toilet . the new bus station ' s toilet facility be fantastic . there be six individual cubicle , each with their own toilet and sink — everything be self - contain . I take the bus from Wallsend to North Shields , and so far the facility be be well maintain . we might worry about what happen to such facility in the town centre , but people be show pride , and that be the key thing — the difference be that there be now pride in the town centre . in the town square there be an area where people can sit — we be call it the piazza , to be a bit posh in North Shields . entertainment be also provide , and there be a big screen — we have already see music there — and that be just off Bedford Street , which be now the main street . Saville Street , the other high street , be a lot quieter . People walk down Bedford Street and , halfway down , suddenly come across this wonderful piazza . visitor who come on the metro or the bus get off and see this wonderful community facility in the heart of the shopping area . we have a green square a bit far over . the piazza be concrete — it have some plant — but it have a community feel . the new hub be the council ' s first building with fully carbon - neutral construction , and the council hope to achieve carbon net zero by 2030 . the hub be sustainable , and its design and material be at the forefront . the building use solar energy and manage waste surface water , which be particularly important . art be be instal and , to include the community , there be a competition to design a memorial to one of North Shields ' s most famous son or daughter . the choose memorial be to Thomas Brown , who receive the George Medal after he retrieve the Enigma code from a sink boat , which shorten the war . he be only 16 . sadly , he die in a fire with his sister at their house not many month after come home — he have a survive brother and sister . he be overwhelmingly vote as the person who should be remember in the town square , which will be name after he , which be lovely . I go to the opening of the memorial . after develop somewhere on the high street to celebrate our local history and local hero , North Shields now have a buzz about it . it look good , and long may that continue . we have a shopping centre , the Beacon centre , from the town ' s last revival 50 year ago , when I be in my teen — I keep want to think that it be only 40 year ago . [ laughter . ] it be all right for you young one . I have always be proud of North Shields , and I have be sadden when our high street have not be able to thrive . I now see pride return to the people of North Shields . People , young and old , be gather , shop and enjoy their high street . I hope this Bill can achieve for other town centre and high street what North Shields have achieve by get funding , and by people and community work and come together , to restore pride and interest in the town centre because of its thriving high street . high street be essential to our town . they act as social hub for our community , and they attract people , which result in money be spend in our local economy . across the UK , we have all see high street decline over the last decade . this can be put down to multiple factor , such as online shopping , energy cost and the pandemic . all of these thing , and more , have mean that high street be become empty , and town be the bad for it . business on our high street be put under huge strain during covid . we see large amount of ingenuity from many who have to adapt and change their business model to survive . I see many local business start delivery service or create new product that have not previously exist . in many way , people adapt to a brand - new situation to keep their business alive . however , many be also support by Government grant , and I be extremely grateful for that support , which be receive by many business throughout Broxtowe that might not be operate today without it . we have see the loss of vital service from many of our high street . in 2019 I discover that we be lose our banking service in Stapleford , when a constituent speak to I in the street to ask what could be do . this would have be a huge loss to our town . online banking can be great , but it be not for everyone , so it be important that physical banking service exist in our community . I get to work to ensure that banking service would be available in our high street . I finally manage to find Cash Access UK , which have now open a new banking hub where customer of major bank and building society can carry out regular cash transaction . that be a win , but other local service will also disappear if we do not look after our high street . there be many high street in my constituency , with a huge variety of chain store and independent business . in 2021 , follow a period of lobby the Government , Stapleford receive £ 21 . 1 million as part of a town deal , and its main road , Derby Road , have already benefit hugely from that funding . independent shop such as rowell receive some of it to renovate part of their business . rowell have be in the town for 126 year , and I have the honour of take Chris and Donna , its owner , to no . 10 Downing Street to thank they for what they do for Stapleford . Bake I a Wish , which open last year , be a local business whose owner begin bake in their home in Chilwell during the covid - 19 pandemic . follow covid , they decide to open a shop sell delicious cake and pastry — I recommend their honey layer cake — in a now up - and - come Stapleford town centre , with footfall rise and far few empty shop than we use to have . that demonstrate the difference that the town deal have make . in another part of my constituency , Beeston , many small and independent business have serve the community for far long than I have be around . Fred Hallam , a grocer ' s and fishmonger , have be present on the High Road since 1908 . I have previously take the now Prime Minister to Fred Hallam to show he how much value it bring to our local town , and why it be so important that such business have the Government ' s support . another local business on the High Road that the Prime Minister have the privilege of visit be Hairven , a hair salon open by my constituent Collette . Hairven be not only an important fixture in the town , but provide apprenticeship for young people start their career in the hair and beauty industry . I be incredibly proud of the work it do . as we so often say in the House , university be not for everyone , and this and many similar business be provide an essential service in offer apprenticeship . we need to ensure that our high street be offer service that can not be obtain online . they can also be a social hub : coffee shop and other such venue often provide a place to go for people who may live alone or feel isolated . enable they to be around other and visit a venue where they can meet a friend can go a long way towards tackle the endemic of loneliness that we be come to see . I have be proud to speak in the House on numerous occasion about the need to do more to tackle loneliness and isolation , and I believe that high street be essential in do so . the availability of accommodation in town be a further way of make high street busy , but town will not draw in individual without have a variety of business . we have become more used to see empty store front along our high street , which be a very poor situation , and I be therefore delighted that the Government ' s Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 allow local authority to instigate high street rental auction of property that have be vacant for more than a year . it will be up to they whether they take up those power , but I hope very much that that will be do in Broxtowe to ensure that all our high street be as attractive as they can be to both local and visitor . I would add that I be very keen to see more high street business take on by young generation . Broxtowe have a huge amount of young entrepreneurship , and I be keen to encourage young people to take on the challenge of open high street business and bring a fresh perspective to our high street . perhaps this be something the Government could look at follow the debate . the Bill from my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) be vital , as it require that we do not let our high street fall into disarray . it provide that local authority must not merely review a high street every five year but actively lie out an improvement plan . that put pressure on local authority to ensure that our high street be fit for local community . I believe a large contributing factor to the amount of footfall on high street be car parking . People can be hugely put off from visit town where they can not park or where parking cost be extortionate . in Broxtowe we have have huge issue with parking . I implore our local council to do more to tackle this problem , as it have a huge impact on shop , business owner and local resident . it be essential that we have a car parking strategy in our town centre and ensure that throughout busy time of the day we have available and affordable parking for all . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South for bring this Bill to the House . high street be in decline , and once we lose many of their facility , they will not return . I be very pleased to see this Bill introduce , so that we can take action now to save our high street and ensure they return to the buzz social hub we once see up and down the country , include in my constituency of Broxtowe . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) for this important private Member ' s Bill . high street be a fundamental part of any community , whether village , town or city — or two city , in my case . they attract commercial activity to the centre , support the local economy and provide much - need job for local people . I welcome this Bill . by require local authority to designate high street in their area , publish review of their condition and develop action plan , it recognise the importance of enhance our high street . accord to the Office for National Statistics , there be over 1 , 200 high street in London alone , constitute almost 20 % of the high street we have in Great Britain . as Member of Parliament for the Cities of London and Westminster , I know the importance of the high street , as we be home to what be often refer to as the nation ' s high street : Oxford Street . it may be only one and a half mile long , but before the pandemic the Oxford Street district alone generate £ 13 billion of GVA . to put that into context , that be 25 % of the entirety of Wales ' s GVA . in central London , 25 % of visitor be international , but they account for 50 % of all spending . as Europe ' s busy shopping street , Oxford Street play a key role in entice these tourist to our country . many visitor emphasise that tax rate play a role in their choice of destination . many business in my constituency rely heavily on the revenue generate by international shopper , yet since the abolition of tax - free shopping , we have see a trend of these consumer choose to take their business to other european capital , such as Paris and Milan . we know that such visitor be spend less in the UK than in other european country . we know that such visitor be spend less in the UK than in other european country . in 2022 , spend in the UK by american visitor reach 101 % of 2019 level , but in France it surge to 226 % of 2019 level . that datum make a clear point : we need a return of tax - free shopping . I have repeatedly make the case for introduce tax - free shopping to provide a needed boost to a wide range of business on high street across the country . we must also ensure that renowned british high street such as Oxford Street retain their global status . as we have hear , shop on many local high street be empty or close — business have perhaps not survive the pandemic — and the same can be say of part of Oxford Street . up and down Oxford Street , there be now too many candy shop and vape shop . I understand that the landlord want rent to ensure that their property be a go business , but I be deeply disappointed that Westminster City Council have still not be able to deal with the plethora of candy shop on Oxford Street . many of the tenant use shell company , which be another reason we need an urgent review of Companies House — but I digress , Madam Deputy Speaker . of course , Oxford Street be not the only high street in the west end . we have what I like to call the trinity of Oxford Steet , Bond Street and Regent Street . all be situate in the west end and play an important part in the cultural and entertainment powerhouse that be central London . the trinity boast some of the world ' s most famous department store , include selfridge on Oxford Street , Liberty just off Regent Street and , of course , Hamleys , the world ' s old toy shop , on Regent Street . Bond Street be home to some of the most famous luxury brand : Burberry , Chanel , Cartier , Dolce & Gabbana , Herm è s , Jimmy Choo , Louis Vuitton , Mulberry , Ralph Lauren and Tiffany — I could go on . the Bill go to the heart of why we need to ensure the health of the local high street . an aspect that we tend to forget when it come to the regeneration and protection of the high street be the role that business improvement district play . in city of London and Westminster , bid play a massive part in ensure that our high street be use in the well possible capacity by make improvement to the public realm and enable business to work together to ensure that the local high street be a go concern . in Westminster , we have a plethora of bid , include the New West End Company , the Heart of London Business Alliance , Northbank , Victoria , Baker Street Quarter , PaddingtonNow and Marble Arch London . in the City , we have Aldgate Connect , Fleet Street Quarter and many other . I pay respect to and thank the amazing Ruth Duston , the chief executive of an umbrella organisation that bring together a number of those bid . the difference that the bid have make to a swathe of high street and commercial area across my constituency be absolutely outstanding , and I thank Ruth for her service . it be not just in the west end that the high street be important ; the two city be home to what I call village or neighbourhood : Elizabeth Street in Belgravia , Warwick way in Pimlico , Berwick Street in Soho , Mount Street in Mayfair and , of course , Marylebone High Street — the high street for the village of Marylebone . all those neighbourhood high street cater to resident and visitor alike , with their much - love caf é s and small business such as florist ' , clothe shop , barber , nail bar , grocer , baker — you name it . every one of our neighbourhood high street have a small business , and behind those small business can be family . this Bill will do so much to support family - run business . we have already hear today the huge part that our high street play , whether in the capital city , an area like Stoke - on - Trent or anywhere . they can often make a village , a town or a neighbourhood in a city a special place to live for resident , include I . I be delighted to live in the village of Pimlico , where we have a whole number of brilliant local shop , restaurant and family - run business . it be important that people can live near the high street , and build house on land that become available be so important for footfall . do the hon . Lady agree ? the hon . Lady be right , and what she say relate to an important point about the regeneration of our high street . we have to have people around high street to use they and to benefit from the facility and the service that they offer . that be one aspect I look at in the regeneration of Oxford Street when I be the leader of Westminster City Council . we be look at change to our planning policy , because we know that with the change in people ' s behaviour with online shopping , not as many people be now come to buy . they may come in to browse , but they do not necessarily buy . that be why I consider that for somewhere like Oxford Street , we should protect the ground floor in particular , and perhaps the first floor and the basement , for retail . above that , often there be five or six floor . shop such as John Lewis and House of Fraser as be do not need all that huge floor space any more , because of the change in behaviour . I be more than happy to look at introduce residential aspect or hotel . I think that if we could have residential in Oxford Street , the type of people who would live there , on a high street , would not necessarily be family or old couple . it would be somewhere that young professional , student or whoever would live , and they want access to retail at all hour of the day , restaurant , cafe and whatever . the hon . Lady make a good point that we need to look at residential aspect , but we do not want to turn our high street just into residential area . we need that commercial zone , but local authority need to box clever when they be consider not only how they can help the exist small business in their high street , but also how to attract new one in . the Government be commit to support retail business of all size . investment have be make in the high street through the £ 4 . 8 billion levelling - up fund , as well as the future high street fund , which be worth £ 830 million . these initiative help boost our local economy by create more job and home , while improve skill and infrastructure . we also have Government support worth £ 373 billion to the economy during the pandemic . we must never forget how much support this Government give to secure hundred of thousand of job in this country during the pandemic . as I say early , online shopping continue to grow . the retail sector in high street suffer from that . we see that through the pandemic , and it continue to grow . indeed , it be now easy than ever to shop online , with next - day delivery and free return . there be less of a need for people to visit the high street to buy an outfit for that special occasion or the important interview they have come up . this evolution of shopping be have an impact on the high street . Footfall be in decline , and the sector be grapple with a seismic shift in consumer habit . I therefore welcome the Bill promote by my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South , which get to the crux of the issue . it be important that we support our high street in the evolution that be happen as we speak . as I say in my intervention , I fully support how the Bill put an onus on local authority to step up and protect their local street in the face of change customer behaviour . although it be true that my constituency be home to many thriving high street , we can not ignore the significant change in how we use our high street today . as I mention , the candy store on Oxford Street be a problem , and I really hope that Westminster Council will sort that out . it be become an increasingly common problem around the country when landlord want to secure as much rent as they can — that be understandable — but that demonstrate how we need to adopt a long - term approach to ensure that our high street can thrive in a sustainable way . the Bill promise to do exactly that by present an opportunity to push local authority to well use the tool they have to address these problem . as I say , the Bill will allow the resident of the town , the city or the area to hold their local authority to account and have a say , and if they be not happy with what their local council be do , perhaps they could even vote out their council . one way in which I have see the issue successfully tackle be by change the use of property from shop to activity - base venue . as I say , I have the idea of perhaps attract more residential use into part of Oxford Street , but , just down from here on Victoria Street , two unit that I think be previously a clothe shop and a restaurant have reopen as a bowling alley and a karaoke bar . now , that might not be everybody ' s cup of tea , but I have to say that I have partake in the bowling alley activity ; I take my team there last week . I will not give hon . member the result of the competition , but I do not do very well . there be also wide concern about rise crime level on our high street . shoplifting be at eye - water level . late last year , I join local people on a walkabout on Marylebone High Street and be shock and appal to hear that an increase in shoplifting have lead several retail store to lock their door and allow people in only if they know who they be . I speak to shop manager , particularly of clothe shop — those shop ' staff and manager tend to be woman — who be very concerned about their own safety . People be come in , grab clothe off the rail and run out . we have hear a report today on the BBC about shoplift in Manchester and the real threat that local shop staff face on a daily basis . local people have report that Waitrose on Marylebone High Street have remove product such as alcohol from its shelf to protect itself from be target by organised crime . it be often organise gang who be involve in the dreadful crime of shoplifting . we call it shoplifting , but we should call it retail theft , because shoplifting do not really get to the crux of how it be theft , often with the threat of violence . we need to take it more seriously . accord to the Metropolitan police service , Oxford Street , Regent Street and Bond Street be hit by nearly 18 , 500 crime in the year to July 2023 , and more than 80 % of the area ' s crime that year be theft . Police and crime prevention be key to preserve and enhance the character of our high street . I welcome the fact that the Government have prioritise the safety of our high street and police with their retail crime action plan and the safe street fund . however , it be clear that our local authority need to do more to support those effort and I hope this Bill will help in that process . through this Bill , local authority will be encourage to work more with local business and stakeholder on our high street to develop new idea , to encourage growth and to tackle the obstacle face our high street today . I therefore welcome the Bill and thank my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South for introduce it . it present an ambitious and necessary plan to reawaken our local high street and bring they roar back to life so that they can well serve our local community and boost our economy by attract more visitor . I very much welcome this Bill and I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) on get it this far and on advocate so passionately for our high street . this Bill , which require local authority to designate street in their area as high street and develop an improvement plan , especially without that upper limit of three street that can be designate as high street , will provide a framework for our many local authority to do more to support this important part of what my hon . Friend call the beat heart of our community . he be absolutely right to term it in that way . it be a great pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) . I be particularly strike by she draw out of the concept of neighbourhood high street . although she obviously represent a far more urbanised area than I do , in my constituency we have both a town centre and other neighbourhood high street , which need the support and help of our local authority just as the town centre do . that be an important thing to think about as this plan go forward , and I be sure the Minister will reflect on that in his comment . a picture have be paint already of the importance of high street , so I will simply add that a recent poll find that 80 % of respondent think it very important that their high street be keep alive and healthy . that say , our town centre be incredibly fragile at the moment and they do need more protection . I think this Bill will incentivise local authority to do the right thing and to have plan in place . the economic benefit of town centre to our local economy be huge and considerable . certainly in Basingstoke my town centre and high street service and support one of the large centre of employment in the south - east . not only resident but worker who come to Basingstoke , day in , day out use it . town centre and high street in our town centre promote civic pride and social cohesion and , as the hon . member for North Tyneside ( Mary Glindon ) say , they be place where we gather . that be an important part of their role as well . however , high street and town centre face considerable challenge , which be why I be speak in support of this Bill today . my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster refer to shoplifting , and I think every hon . member take part in this debate will recognise the incredible way in which shoplifting have be turn into , frankly , organised crime . individual be organise themselves to go into shop regularly to steal large quantity of often high - value item . I be pleased to say that the police and crime commissioner in my county of Hampshire , Donna Jones , have go above and beyond in address the issue of shoplifting , particularly by support facial recognition technology , which will help our local retailer on our high street immensely to do something about that appal crime . she have reinstate the important beat bobby in every single one of my community — not just in Basingstoke , but throughout Hampshire — and make sure that they will be there to collect the evidence and intelligence on the gang and individual organise shoplifting . the police force in our various part of the country have an important role to play in the future health of our high street . I know my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South will be look for way to ensure that they be absolutely at the heart of his Bill , so that our high street be healthy for the future . as have be say , the reality for many retailer and service provider be that what they traditionally offer face to face can now — perhaps more conveniently for some — be purchase or procure online . shopping habit and consumer behaviour be already change before the pandemic , but the change have accelerate enormously , force our high street to think carefully about their role in the future . it be not just retail park that be a threat to the future of our high street ; it be more fundamental than that , so it will be important that local authority take consumer ' and shopper ' behaviour into account when they look at the Bill as it be roll out . my " high street " in Basingstoke — the town centre be a network of street and one very large shopping centre — have be consider this issue for a number of year . back in 2021 , thank to the leadership of then council leader Simon Minas - Bound , we put in place a blueprint for our town centre that be very similar to what my hon . friend be call for in his Bill . it be approve in December 2022 under the then conservative administration . it be call the " Town Centre Strategy " , and it be design to attract more footfall to the town centre , base on change consumer need . it look at how the environment can bring great vibrancy , and therefore great prosperity , to the town centre . the strategy be develop with extensive public engagement : there be more than 3 , 000 response to the consultation . the masterplan that have be develop use the historical layout of Basingstoke to reimagine the current town centre , not for the next five or 10 year , but for the next 30 year , so that our town be fit for the future . that town centre plan must look at the heritage of our community . I feel it be important , at the heart of the future of Basingstoke , to recognise our incredible history . Jane Austen , the novelist , use to go shop in Basingstoke , and I be very pleased to work with a number of local people , include the sculptor Adam Roud , to put a lasting memorial in my town centre to that incredible Hampshire citizen . the hon . member for North Tyneside talk about remember one of the son of her community , and I make sure we be remember one of our daughter . Jane Austen be a fantastic person to have as part of our history . there be also the Willis Museum and Sainsbury Gallery and the marketplace . all that history and richness have to be central to the way we press forward with Basingstoke . consumer ' change need and demand mean that they may not go to their local high street only to shop , even though we continue to value the independent retailer and the pub and club that populate our town centre . they be also look for experience and entertainment , and our history will enable we to make a unique entertainment offer in our town centre . I absolutely agree that this Bill promote a way for our local authority to ensure that they do the utmost to support our high street and make the most of they as a way of create successful community for the future . it will put the beat heart into our community , and I very much commend my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South for all the work he have do to bring forward the Bill . I call the shadow Minister . it be a pleasure to respond to the debate and we have hear a number of interesting and broad perspective from member of all party . I thank the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) for table the Bill and for work constructively with member from across the House , with the many stakeholder who inevitably have a view and with the Department so that the Bill gain Government support . he describe high street as the beat heart of our community , and that be an absolutely apposite description . I agree when he talk about member of Parliament have a leadership role in guide their community and make sure that they be fit for the future , and he draw attention to a very sensible amendment that add great flexibility so that a collection of street , rather than one street , could be determine by a local authority as a high street . recall what the right hon . member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) say about the historical element of high street , I want to reflect on my own town centre in Ellesmere Port , which be , of course , the one I know well . the original town centre be somewhere different to where it be today . it have be move westward and southward over the year , but a number of important historic building remain in the old part of the town that need a focus as well . the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent South also make an important point about how antisocial behaviour can be a blight on town centre and the important role of the police and other authority in tackle it . he mention gate off alleyways , which have be a successful policy in my constituency . there be also a worry that it tend to move challenge and problem around rather than deal with they entirely , but that be why enforcement be so important in such matter . the right hon . member for Basingstoke give an important perspective and articulate well the importance of crime prevention in make sure our high street be attractive and welcome place for people to visit . my hon . friend the Member for North Tyneside ( Mary Glindon ) give we a glowing gallop through her part of the world and speak with great local knowledge and pride about North Shields . she be right that the key to all this be how we bring community together . her particular point about how town centre use to be the place where people would see friend once a week on a Saturday afternoon speak to the challenge . of course , thank to the internet and mobile phone , we can pretty much speak to anyone we want to at any point , at any time of the day , from anywhere in the world , so the importance of that central meeting point in a community have diminish in recent year . my hon . Friend also speak glowingly about the work her council do , and I think most council work well within their limitation in try to breathe life into their high street . council certainly have an important role as , for want of a well description , anchor tenant in the town centre . my council have make a strategic decision to base its headquarters for the whole of Cheshire West in Ellesmere Port , which have result in a certain critical mass of people come into the town . my hon . friend the Member for North Tyneside also talk about the importance of public toilet . we sometimes overlook that , but we need to be confident that there be somewhere we can escape to in an emergency . it be also important to pay tribute to the council worker whose job it be to make sure that those toilet be clean and in good working order , because , as we know , from time to time they can attract the wrong sort of attention . it be important that we acknowledge the role of the entire public sector in make sure that our town centre be clean and invite place . I know that my community in particular have a have a lot of respect for Bernie , who spend every day trundle up and down Ellesmere Port high street , make sure that the street be clean and tidy . he be well respected and admire for that because , rain or shine , he be always there do that important role . the hon . member for Broxtowe ( Darren Henry ) give an important perspective when he talk about the impact of the withdrawal of bank from many community . I congratulate he on his success bring back some of that facility . I be afraid there have be a national exodus from the high street . I have speak on other occasion about the importance of have a physical presence for important service such as banking , because some people will not want to or be able to deal with a computer . when talk about financial transaction , the security of a face - to - face interaction be important to people . the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) , perhaps understandably , have a different perspective about the importance of international shopper to the high street in her constituency . she identify a share problem of all high street : the rise of online shopping , which have make it much more of a challenge to attract people . it be great that we can now order anything we want at any time of day , and it will be on our doorstep probably the next day , but that have not come without downside . that be why the hon . Lady ' s point about a need for a broad approach to the high street be important , as be her discussion about residential and activity - base destination . the right hon . member for Basingstoke have a neat way of express that as experience and entertainment — something that we all seek on a regular basis . all member speak with great passion and sincerity about the challenge face their high street . it would be fair to say that there have be a decline in our town centre in recent year . many be blight by board - up outlet and pavement verge on empty . it be hard to escape a wide sense of malaise because , in many respect , town centre and high street be the face of the place that resident and visitor see on a daily basis . they be the individual identity of the area for those who work , socialise or shop there . that importance have be reflect in study conduct into the value of high street to local people . nationwide find in 2020 that more than seven in 10 people feel that their local high street be an important part of their community , but almost two third of people think that high street have be neglect and more than two third believe that they have fall into decline . I be sure that those figure will be even high in some constituency . shop closure in recent year speak for themselves . the British Retail Consortium estimate last year that Britain have lose 6 , 000 retail outlet since 2018 . that translate into vacancy rate that be unequally spread across the country and the type of shopping area . my hon . friend the Member for Blaydon ( Liz Twist ) note on Second Reading that the loss of shop be more pronounced in the north - east , where the vacancy rate be nearly a fifth , compare to a rate of one in 10 in the south of England . a similar pattern be noticeable in the type of vacant shopping outlet . accord to the Local Data Company , in the final quarter of 2023 high street and shopping centre have vacancy rate of 14 % and 17 . 9 % respectively , yet retail park have a vacancy rate of only 7 . 6 % . that experience be mirror in Ellesmere Port , where we have the high street , Port Arcades in the town centre , and we also have Cheshire oak as the out - of - town retail destination . we have all see the big name go and the shift away from in - person banking in our town centre , which have accelerate the decline that we all have be talk about . it be of note that the footfall in high street last year be still 10 % less than before the pandemic . that trend have a potential compounding effect on high street and town centre , as the business that remain be harm by the diversion of local people to alternative area . it can be increasingly difficult on the back of that to attract new investment . there be huge challenge ahead to break the cycle of decline , and I see these trend in my constituency : where once we have a bustling town centre and big - name store on every corner as well as an arcade full of shop , we now have far more empty shop and therefore few people come to the town centre . what be once a lively place be now , sadly , look a little empty . People want to have pride in their town and when they see board - up shop and empty street they feel that something have go amiss , so I can see the good intention from the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent South in bring this Bill forward . I think we all agree that something need to be do to support our local community and get they back to how we remember they — bustle , lively and full of energy and economic activity . however , the Bill also implicitly suggest the approach so far from the Government be not deliver the kind of change we want . there be little indication that we be reverse the decline over recent year despite the many scheme launch by the Government — the strategy for high street regeneration , the future high street fund , the high street heritage action zone , the high street task force , and most recently the long - term plan for town and the high street accelerator . if all those scheme have be a success , we might not have need this Bill now , but they be limit to specific area or time and require competitive bidding process , which , as the Public Accounts Committee have note , have so far fail to deliver anything of note . this Bill adopt a different approach , create a duty on all local authority to designate their high street and create improvement plan , mean in theory at least that all area will be place on an equal footing . these plan will set out proposal for the preservation and enhancement of designate high street , with council require to review they every five year and consider they when exercise planning function . and as we hear from the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent South , this will be a rolling review , and that be right : we should not let these plan just remain in stasis , because the retail environment be challenging and ever - change . it be refreshing that it be recognise that local authority be the good vehicle to make decision about their local area . however , more need to be do to tackle the problem our high street face , because after a high street be identify and an improvement plan be make there appear to be no mechanism for the allocation of resource to ensure these plan be implement . give that council budget have be stretch to breaking point since 2010 , I see little scope for any improvement in the foreseeable future . it would be useful to understand when the Minister respond what step will be take to ensure that local authority be support to deliver on the ambition that we all share to regenerate our high street . he make the important point on Second Reading that these plan should not be leave to gather dust on the shelf , so what mechanism do he envisage be make available to ensure there be real delivery of these plan ? I hope — perhaps he will be able to explain and answer this — that the delivery of the plan will not depend upon council have successful bid from whatever the next iteration be of the levelling - up fund and that there will actually be five - year investment programme set out from central Government to match the plan . the reality be that any Government focus , however small , on regenerate high street be to be welcome , but much more need to be do . the most effective way of deliver substantial improvement to our high street and city across the country be not just through plan dictate from central Government , but through devolution and local government liberation . this will hand authority , who have a much well understanding of the condition on the ground , the right tool to make the right intervention for their local area . we support this Bill , but we also recognise that much more need to be do to deliver the change we all want to see . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) for his leadership on this very important and worthwhile private Member ' s Bill , and for his unwavering commitment and effort to champion our high street . this have be a fantastic debate . we have learn a lot about the heritage of different high street : Thomas Brown Street , in the constituency of the hon . member for North Tyneside ( Mary Glindon ) , be name in honour of the world war two hero who retrieve the enigma code at sea ; the 800 - year - old high street in Basingstoke be the home of the author Jane Austen ; the 126 year of Rowells in Stapleford ; and the most famous high street in the world , Oxford Street , in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) . we also hear about the town fund in Broxtowe , which have give £ 21 . 1 million to Stapleford , and the transform city fund in North Tyneside , which have contribute towards its new transport hub and piazza . sadly , we do not hear from the hon . member for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) about the levelling - up fund , which have give £ 13 . 4 million to transform Ellesmere Port town centre . as we hear in the debate , everyone here recognise that healthy and vibrant high street be vital not only for local economy , but for the quality of life and pride of local community . however , the challenge currently face by our high street be significant , whether from the linger impact of covid - 19 on footfall or the ever - present challenge of competition with online retailer . while some have be able to weather the storm , many have struggle . the Government be commit to work with local community to help turn that around . the Bill will play an important role in that mission , alongside other Government intervention , as part of our broad strategy to help high street reinvent themselves . they include inject billion of pound into high street regeneration and renewal , include the long - term plan for town , which will invest £ 1 . 5 billion across 75 town to give they the tool they need to build a well future for local people . one of the town select as part of our long - term plan for town be Canvey , in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Castle Point ( Rebecca Harris ) . canvey , like all the 75 town in our long - term plan for town , will receive £ 20 million over the next 10 year to invest in local people ' s priority . I take this opportunity to thank my hon . friend , who have for so long champion the people of Canvey Island . without her advocacy and brilliant campaigning , we would not be able to give they that £ 20 million cash . our long - term plan for town will sit alongside high street rental auction , which will require landlord to rent out vacant commercial property to willing tenant such as local business . that will help to create lively high street with increase footfall . of course , no high street be the same , with local area well place to find solution to local problem , which be why strong local partnership on the ground be key to successful regeneration . we want to support council , local business and local community to give they the resource and power they need . I think of high street in my own constituency , such as those in Redcar , Marske , Eston or Normanby . Normanby be probably the small of the town I have just mention . at the moment , it be beset with roadwork that be expect to continue for around three month . that be already have a huge impact on local business . it be important , obviously , that when local authority plan such major roadwork , they give serious consideration to the damage they can do to local business . Mr Deputy Speaker , I can not mention Normanby High Street without think of the late Kenny Surtees , who for as long I can remember have a card shop on that street . I think he would have have a few choice thing to say to the local Teesside Gazette about how those roadwork be go . the Government recognise that many local authority have regeneration strategy already in place , but the Bill will make the designation of high street and the creation of high street improvement plan a statutory requirement . that will ensure local authority not only prioritise the health of their high street , but use their available power to drive forward improvement , such as section 215 power , to require land to be clean up when it be detracting from the surrounding . the Bill will require each local authority to designate at least one high street or network of street in their area . local authority will be able to designate as many high street as they want . however , the Government have commit to fund the cost of up to three high street designation . any designation beyond that number would have to be fund by the local authority itself . local authority will then have to create plan for the designate high street , which should be review at least every five year . local resident , business , community organisation and other , include member of Parliament , will rightly have a real say on the action plan , and the local authority will be accountable for deliver they . accordingly , the Bill will require local authority to consult on which high street be choose . different area will have different challenge , so the improvement we can expect to see will vary . the focus in one area might be on tackle antisocial behaviour — again , something we have hear about in the debate , and we have hear some fantastic example of what police and crime commissioner be do to tackle it — while in other it could be create more green space to rest and socialise . what be crucial , however , be flexibility to ensure that local authority have the agency to enact the good change for their area . the Bill will also create a duty on local authority to take into account high street improvement plan when exercise their planning function . that will support the already strong protection for mixed - use high street and the complement tool available to authority , such as change to the use class order in 2020 to create the commercial , business and service use class — class e . I would like to take this opportunity to thank hon . member for their suggestion for strengthen the Bill during its passage through the House . we work with my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South to make some small amendment in Committee so that the Bill be as effective as possible . those change include ensure that local authority can make as many high street designation as they wish , with the Government fund up to three of those designation . that will give local authority with a large number of high street the flexibility need to designate more than three , if they desire . I note my hon . friend ' s point that Stoke - on - Trent be a city of six town , so there will clearly be more than three high street that the local authority might want to intervene in . we have also update the wording of the Bill to allow for the designation of a network of street , as mention by the hon . member for Ellesmere Port and Neston , as the Government recognise that high street be complex ecosystem that be not always limit to one street , but could be make up of a network of connect street . additionally , the Bill now set out that local authority must review their improvement plan at least once in every five - year period , with guidance to follow up on the circumstance in which local authority should consider undertake a review , such as where the area of the designate high street be expand or reduce . that will ensure that plan remain meaningful and relevant . follow Royal Assent , we will issue guidance on develop the improvement plan . the Government recognise that local authority be well place to know what their high street improvement plan should cover . official in my Department have already begin outreach with local authority on the guidance and will continue to work with local authority and other stakeholder as the guidance be develop . it be important that the plan be not leave to gather dust but remain constantly relevant , as the hon . Gentleman remind we . that be why the Bill require local authority to update their plan at least every five year , which we believe strike the right balance between give the plan enough time to have a meaningful effect and ensure that they remain relevant to the reinvigoration of our high street . we recognise that the measure should not come at the cost of overburden council that be already under pressure . as I have already mention , we will ensure that local authority have the extra funding they need to be able to deliver the measure in the Bill effectively . I be grateful that propose new clause 1 be not move on Report , as it would have remove all permit development right , not just those that change the use from commercial to residential letting . I appreciate that that be a challenge in the constituency of the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) , and I note that the LGA have echo her concern . I will meet both of they as the Bill progress to understand the issue far and see what can be do to mitigate they . as already state , the Bill form one part of a broad strategy to help regenerate and level up our high street . part of the solution be fund , with the Government invest billion of pound into help high street navigate the difficult environment they face . the late of that funding be the £ 1 . 5 billion long - term plan for town , which will power ambitious regeneration project over the next decade . however , it be not simply about funding . with the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 , we give local authority new power to reduce vacancy in their high street through high street rental auction . that will help to create lively high street with increase footfall and activity that attract people and business , increase pride in place and avoid the long - term presence of vacancy . the development of strong partnership , be it between national and local government , or between local business and community , will be vital to the regeneration of our high street . one such partnership be the high street accelerator programme , which I have the pleasure of leading and which will bring together business , resident and community organisation , with their local authority , to develop a long - term vision for revitalise town centre . in addition , we have introduce significant planning flexibility so that local decision maker can well manage the use of building in town centre and ensure that high street remain place of commercial and social activity . that include by convert class e property ; allow a change of use without the need for individual planning application ; and use permit development right to introduce movable structure in pub , caf é s and restaurant , and to allow local authority to hold outdoor market . permit development also provide freedom to change more premise from commercial to residential use , so that much - need new home can be create in high street and town centre , provide a mix of user , as my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster lead on during her time as leader of Westminster City Council . alongside that , as I have mention , we be invest in our high street across the country , with £ 15 billion of levelling - up funding since 2019 go to community the length and breadth of the UK , include in Hyndburn and Haslingden , where my hon . friend the Member for Hyndburn ( Sara Britcliffe ) have secure more than £ 50 million for her area . she have undoubtedly be the good MP that her constituency have have . I be pleased to visit it recently to see the historic town hall and the plan for the market hall , where , before serve as the MP , she use to have a stall , if I recall correctly . she be a brilliant champion for her constituent and I be pleased that we be able to help support her area . another area we be support be Nuneaton , which be also significantly benefit from Government funding . I know that be particularly welcome by the Deputy Chief Whip , my right hon . friend the Member for Nuneaton ( Mr Jones ) . it be receive a town deal worth more than £ 23 million and future high street funding of more than £ 13 million , thank to his advocacy . as part of that funding , we will help to build Grayson Place , which be name after Nuneaton ' s famous Larry Grayson . his famous phrase , " shut that door ! " , have a particular significance for I as the MP for Redcar . this be dispute by the Deputy Chief Whip , but the first time Larry Grayson say that be when he be do a tour in Redcar and the wind from the seafront keep bang the door on Redcar pier — he say " shut that door ! " and so it become . I hope that the good people of Nuneaton will use their vote next week to back their fantastic conservative council to finish the job and continue to improve their area . of course , I could not omit to mention Stoke - on - Trent , which have have not one , not two , but three successful bid for levelling - up funding , as well as a levelling - up partnership , and I know that my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South be keen to see investment in Longton . stoke - on - Trent have never have such a focus from any Government , and I credit he for all his campaigning as a great MP over the past seven year . to conclude , this Government be fully commit to breathe new life into our high street , whether that be through the long - term plan for town , the high street rental auction or this Bill . like my hon . friend , I appreciate just how much this matter to the community that we represent . again , I offer my gratitude to he for introduce this Bill , to the member who have support it throughout the entirety of its Commons stage , to the Clerks and to my fab team of official , who have help with the Bill . I also pay tribute to the many fantastic council officer , who be often unnamed and unknown but who work day in , day out to improve their community . the Government be back this Bill and back our high street to navigate this period of change and emerge strong for it . I look forward to support the Bill from the sideline as it progress through the other place and eagerly anticipate its become law . if there be a division later , perhaps after 10 minute I should say , in Larry Grayson ' s memory , " lock that door ! " I might give it a go . [ laughter . ] with the leave of the House , I call Jack Brereton . with the leave of the House , let I say that we have have a fantastic and fulsome debate . I thank colleague across the House for their contribution , particularly the hon . member for North Tyneside ( Mary Glindon ) , who refer to the impact of the transform city fund on her constituency . we have have similar in Longton in my constituency , and I be grateful for the funding for new lift at Longton station I thank the Minister for all the support he have give to my Bill . he have be do an incredible job in the Department . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Broxtowe ( Darren Henry ) for his support . he rightly refer to the importance of our high street as social and service hub . I be not think of Chanel , Dolce & Gabbana and Tiffany when I first introduce the Bill but , all the same , I very much appreciate the contribution of my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) . finally , I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) for highlight how our high street matter to all our community . I hope the Bill will continue to proceed in the other place and become an Act of Parliament as soon as possible . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . Paternity Leave ( Bereavement ) Bill Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee , consider . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . I take this opportunity to thank all those who have be involve in the Bill ' s journey up to this point , particularly Widowed and Young , the TUC and Gingerbread . clerk do not often receive praise in the House , but I thank Anne - Marie Griffiths , the Clerk of private member ' Bills , who have do sterling work to support I in progress this Bill . from the outset , as I say on Second Reading , the Bill ' s ambition have be to help as few people as possible . nobody want a mother to die in childbirth , leave a partner behind . the grief be unimaginable , and a person do not have to be a parent to understand the horror for anyone who be leave behind . I remind colleague that the main purpose of the Bill be to introduce a much - need right to leave for bereaved partner from the first day of their employment . such a provision will ensure that employ parent have time , support and security in case where their partner , and the primary caregiver of their child , have die in the most tragic of circumstance . although the number of people who find themselves in this situation be mercifully low — in the UK , there be around 180 maternal death a year within 12 month of childbirth — it be crucial that parent in this position can take time away from work to care for their child , without need to rely solely on the good will of their employer . I be pleased that the Bill will remedy this gap in the law . as I explain on Second Reading , it be necessary to make significant amendment in Committee , so a motion for an instruction be pass to allow for the tabling of amendment that would have otherwise be out of scope . the change will ensure that the Bill be not only well intentione but be effective in achieve my overall ambition . I will now summarise the new structure of the Bill . first , it be amend to reflect that paternity leave , rather than share parental leave , will be use as the vehicle to deliver the entitlement . for a bereaved partner to qualify for share parental leave , the deceased parent must have have a recent history of employment that meet a strict set of requirement . if the deceased parent do not have such a history , such as in the case of a stay - at - home mum , there would be no shared parental leave entitlement for the survive parent to access , which defeat my Bill ' s objective . by contrast , paternity leave be not dependent on any other entitlement . opt for that approach mean that more parent will be eligible . 1 make it clear that , although the entitlement use the paternity leave framework , it will specifically provide for bereaved father and partner . it will also include provision that will only apply to they in these particularly heartbreaking circumstance . the intention be that a bereaved father or partner will have 52 week of leave available during the first year of their child ' s life , from the day on which the mother or primary adopter of the child have tragically die . that ensure that they can act as the primary caregiver for this crucial first year , and can focus all their attention on their newborn child . secondly , the Bill be amend to enable regulation to be make concern the eligibility of adoptive and surrogacy parent for this entitlement . once make , the regulation will allow the survive parent of adopt child and of child bear through surrogacy arrangement to be include . as a result , we will be able to offer the benefit of this entitlement to a wide range of parent than be possible when the Bill be first conceive early in the year . thirdly , the Bill remove the requirement for a continuity of service provision , so that employ parent who find themselves in the tragic situation of lose a partner at the same time as become a new parent can take leave when it be need , and it will therefore be available to take on the first day of employment . other amendment that be make will remove constraint on bereaved partner , enable they to access the entitlement . for example , the Bill remove the requirement that a parent who have take share parental leave can not then take paternity leave . that give the Secretary of State the power to provide that a parent who have take share parental leave before the death of their partner can still take paternity leave in such circumstance . the new Bill also allow provision to be make for circumstance in which the child also die . that too expand on what the original Bill be go to achieve . it give the regulation the flexibility in such case to allow the employee to remain on paternity leave for a period , even though they would not be take the leave for the require purpose of support the mother or care for the child . I think that for any Member in the House lose a partner would cause an unimaginable sense of grief in which to raise a baby . as for the idea of lose a baby — I speak as a father — be there to support your wife or partner , and be able to manage that grief as good you can in the knowledge that you have a job to go back to , will at least provide a tiny piece of reassurance while you deal with the most unimaginable sense of loss , which none of we would ever want to experience . I be so pleased that the Minister be able to bring about that change in Committee . the new Bill introduce two new power , the first of which provide the ability to create , through regulation , enhance redundancy protection for bereaved employee when they return from extended paternity leave . the second power enable regulation to be make to allow bereaved parent to have " keep in touch " day during their extend paternity leave , enable employee to work for their employer for a limited number of day without their right to paternity leave be affect . while someone be look after a child on their own , hopefully with the support of their family , have that option to slowly go back to work for a certain number of day will be an important part of , not recover — I do not think anyone would recover from that scenario — but at least learn to cope with and manage the situation . finally , the Bill be amend in Committee to remove an additional and broad Henry VIII power which would have enable it to amend any Act of Parliament previously pass . as most member will know , I be an Opposition Whip , but I suspect that whether my party be in government or in opposition it be never a good idea to give the Opposition Whips Office control of all Government legislation , so I think most member will be quite pleased that that power have be remove and will not appear in any future Bill . I think it will be view as a positive step . I will say more about the contribution from the hon . member for Broxtowe ( Darren Henry ) when I speak at the end of the debate , but the key for I be that the Bill have come about through genuine cross - party work and consensus . I would go as far as to say that there be no politic in bereavement . on Second Reading , when the Chairman of Ways and Means be in the Chair , I say that one of the surprising aspect of politician be that we be all human — which be not always the perception of the broad public . I say that in jest , of course , but I say it for a purpose . we all grieve , and we all feel , in exactly the same way . at the time of the ballot , the hon . member for Broxtowe come to I and say , " would you look at this ? " , and I do . it be through his work some two year ago that I be here today , and please to be here , present what I accept be a different Bill , but a Bill that be nevertheless the starting point of bring about change that I think be need . it be welcome that we be able to do this on a genuinely cross - party basis . I want to make one final point . the Minister and I have work together over my entire eight year in the House , and he have be nothing but constructive . his official have be super in engage with my small office — my team of one researcher , as lot of mp have — in get the Bill to this point . it have be not only an easy process to work with the Minister and his official but an important one . all be well , when the Bill receive Royal Assent it will help people in their darkest hour . when the unimaginable sense of joy at be a parent become unimaginable grief at lose the person you be expect to do that job with — be a parent be a job of work in every sense — and have to do that on your own , this legislation will mitigate the risk and insecurity that go with that . I pay warm tribute and express my gratitude to the Minister for the way in which he have conduct himself , as he always do , with great courtesy , and for the access he have give I to his official to ensure we can deliver this small but important change to the law . I could not be more delighted that the Bill have finally reach this stage today . I of course put on record my most sincere thank to the hon . member for Ogmore ( Chris Elmore ) . I be delighted when he be select in the private Member ' s Bill ballot and agree to take forward this Bill . he have work incredibly hard to get it to this point , and I be grateful for his and his team ' s work toward get this Bill to become law . I have recall Aaron ' s story on many occasion now , and as today may be the last chance I have to do so , I will recall it again . in 2022 , my constituent Aaron come to my local surgery in Stapleford with his new son Tim in his arm . Aaron have tragically lose his wife Bernadette in childbirth and find that he do not qualify for leave , as he have not be employ by his company for the require period of time . I be determined to change this , so that no one else would find themselves in the same position . Aaron ' s company make good but be not compel by law . Aaron have be here at every stage of this Bill ' s progression through the House . he be once again in the Gallery today . Aaron be testament to the power that constituent can have if they raise an injustice that they come across within our law . change such as this come from individual such as Aaron and his relentless fight to ensure that no one find themselves in the same situation . as have often be say by the hon . member for Ogmore and I and other , this change will not affect many people , but to those it do affect , the impact will be huge . the Bill will ensure that individual who lose their partner during childbirth have a day one right to leave . allow an individual not to have to worry about their employment during what be an incredibly difficult time can have a huge impact on someone . as the hon . member for Ogmore mention , the cross - party support for the Bill show the non - political nature of this measure . I be delighted when present a ten - minute rule Bill on this topic to receive overwhelming support from across the House , include from the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , my hon . friend the Members for Bassetlaw ( Brendan Clarke - Smith ) and for Gedling ( Tom Randall ) and many other who be not in their place today . I put on record my thank to those member who have be with I , push for this change . my hon . friend the Minister , who have responsibility for enterprise , market and small business , meet with Aaron and I two year ago regard this issue . he have consistently offer support and advice , and I know he have work with the hon . member for Ogmore on get the Bill here today . I hope that the Bill do not have to be use by many , but it will have a huge impact on those who do use it during a stage of life when support be most need . that be something that everyone support the Bill should be incredibly proud of , most of all Aaron . I congratulate both the hon . member for Ogmore ( Chris Elmore ) and my hon . friend the Member for Broxtowe ( Darren Henry ) on bring this Bill to the Chamber today and get it through Parliament . it be a very important Bill . I have always believe that , as Members of Parliament , our duty first and foremost be to help our constituent , and it be commendable what my hon . friend have do for his constituent Aaron . it be a horrible situation even to have to consider . I do not have child myself , but I put myself in the position of one of my constituent ' s partner . I have be campaign for more support for woman during their pregnancy because , sadly , one of my constituent commit suicide while pregnant with her daughter Elsie , and her partner , Eddie , be leave on his own . that be due to hyperemesis gravidarum , or extreme pregnancy sickness . within the NHS we be now see more support for woman throughout their pregnancy , due to the campaign that my constituent ' s family have run . what the hon . member for Ogmore have do today will make a difference — although hopefully not to a lot of people — so congratulation to both he and my hon . friend the Member for Broxtowe . as many colleague know , I speak on Second reading of this Bill , so I be delighted to see it progress to its final stage in the Commons . I want again to commend the hon . member for Ogmore ( Chris Elmore ) for progress his Bill so amiably through to this stage . it be a highly emotive bill ; while the number who will benefit each year be thankfully relatively small , the impact on those family be huge . reflect that , it have be extremely positive to see the wide , cross - party support this Bill have attract , especially of course from my hon . friend the Member for Broxtowe ( Darren Henry ) , who I know have long campaign on this issue . as I say on Second Reading , as a father myself it be hard to imagine the impact and trauma that a family must go through on the loss of a mother during childbirth . tragically , however , those situation do occur , so we must put in place the law need to protect properly the right of those who remain , to keep the family together and to support single parent in cope with raise a child or child alone , something that many will not have expect ever to face . any parent will know that juggle all the responsibility of raise child alongside employment and everything else can be stressful at the good of time . this Bill help to protect the right of those family at the most traumatic and distressing point , as they get beyond the horrific loss of a mother , with all the stress and strain that such circumstance will entail , and give they the time they need to move forward as well they can , both physically and mentally . I have read through the change make in Committee and I think they be sensible to ensure that the Bill achieve the well possible desire effect . the most significant change now refocus the Bill on address the specific issue through paternity leave , as oppose to through share parental leave as be originally envisage , create day one right for paternity leave . that be a particularly important change for those family where the deceased mother do not work . under the Bill as first propose , there would not have be any share parental leave for the other parent to access , but paternity right exist whatever the entitlement of the other parent . as amend , the propose extension to paternity right be the well possible choice and will ensure that more family in such tragic circumstance can benefit from the change . it be important that those right be extend to case where , as the hon . member for Ogmore say , both mother and child do not survive childbirth , to reflect the impossibly challenge trauma of get through lose both a partner and an expected child . although I recognise that this Bill do not do everything that be originally envisage to address the issue of pay — in an ideal world that would also be resolve — I think there be recognition that address pay be more complex . I hope that will continue to be consider far , and I will closely follow it . it should be recognise that many employer will already go over and above to support employee during such circumstance , both with leave and financially . I hope the provision will be treat as a floor , not a ceiling , for the support offer . there will also be other bereavement support for which individual might be eligible . the Bill be a major step forward in secure the right of family go through the tough of circumstance have lose a mother . it will have a major beneficial impact on those family when they be at their most vulnerable . I wish my hon . friend continue success in this important Bill ' s progress through the other place , and I look forward to see it become law . I call the shadow Minister . it be a pleasure to speak on Third Reading of this important Bill , which have cross - party support , as we have hear . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Ogmore ( Chris Elmore ) on his success in steer the Bill to this point . I be aware of how much work he have do with the Government to get their support and to ensure that the legislation can go through the other place and gain Royal Assent . I also recognise that the hon . member for Broxtowe ( Darren Henry ) have work constructively on behalf of his constituent , Aaron , and with my hon . friend , to ensure that the legislation will be in place . he speak movingly about how the tragic circumstance of his constituent , who lose his wife , Bernadette , move he to take action . a number of member have note the importance of this work . the hon . member for Hyndburn ( Sara Britcliffe ) speak about the work that she have do in light of the very tragic circumstance of one of her constituent . she show how member can work constructively — with the NHS in her case — to make change so that no one else have to go through the experience that we have hear about . the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) speak with great sincerity about why this legislation be so important . as we have hear , the Bill as amend will disapply the employment condition to which an employee ' s right to paternity leave be subject in the event of their partner die . in effect , it will make paternity leave a day one right for the partner of a mother who have die , with no continuity of employment test . the right be also extend to the tragic circumstance in which both mother and child die , despite the fact that paternity leave be usually take only for the purpose of care for a child . as we know , partner of mother who die in or just after childbirth be not currently entitle to paternity leave if they have not meet the continuity of employment requirement . that mean that some people find themselves in the unfortunate position of not be entitle by right to paternity leave . if their employer choose not to show compassion by voluntarily provide leave , an individual could be leave grieve for their partner , as well as undertake the mammoth responsibility of be a single parent to their child , without workplace support . like other member , I find it very hard to imagine how anyone could face such a devastating situation with the add pressure of job insecurity on top . it be right to acknowledge that most responsible and caring employer would react to such a devastating scenario with compassion and do the right thing by their employee , regardless of whether any law require they to do so . however , make it a legal requirement will mean that the vanishingly small number of employer who do not act in that way will now have to and the employee have one less thing to worry about . my hon . friend the Member for Ogmore say that he want the Bill to help as few people as possible . that be an unusual statement to make in this place , but it be an important point . thankfully , the legislation will apply to few people because death during or just after childbirth be very uncommon . the excellent work that our midwife and doctor perform mean that the number of mother who sadly pass away within 42 day of birth stand at roughly 12 for every 100 , 000 birth . of course , each death be a tragedy and a profound loss , but we should recognise that those tragic circumstance occur in only a small number of instance . the fact that it have take Aaron ' s situation for the matter to come before we mean that it be important that we act to prevent people fall through crack because of legislative oversight . as we know , at present the only right to statutory bereavement leave be for parent who have lose child up to the age of 18 . Leave be a day one right , but the entitlement to pay be conditional on their have be in employment and earn a certain amount over eight week . shared parental leave provision also may not always help people in face the situation that this Bill be originally draft to help . not only be there a time restriction on access , but income requirement can differ for the mother and partner . the system be rather complicated , and we know that family have be discourage from take up share parental leave ; figure show that only 2 . 8 % of partner decide to take it up . as we have hear , by virtue of the amendment agree in Committee , by use paternity leave rather than parental leave as the vehicle for entitlement , hopefully more people will be protect . it would also mean that the survive parent of adopt child or child bear through surrogacy arrangement will be include , and we welcome those change . I commend my hon . friend the Member for Ogmore for work constructively with the Department and the Minister to achieve the desire outcome . I also note with interest the new power in clause 1 ( 4 ) , which provide for the ability to introduce regulation to enhance redundancy protection for bereaved employee when they return from extended paternity leave , and to allow bereaved parent to have keep - in - touch day during their extend paternity leave . it would be useful when the Minister respond to hear whether it be his intention to use those power to introduce regulation . in particular , as my assumption would be , will the regulation be analogous to current paternity leave provision ? in conclusion , we be pleased to see the Bill reach this stage , and we now wish it safe passage through to the other place . again , I commend my hon . friend for his work on it , and I congratulate he on get the Bill to this stage . may I first express my thank to the hon . member for Ogmore ( Chris Elmore ) for bring forward this important Bill and for his collaborative effort all the way through . he be an absolute pleasure to work with and have always display a real whip ' s pragmatism in make sure we get this Bill to the right place so that it could proceed as smoothly as possible . it be great to see so much cross - party support for it . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Broxtowe ( Darren Henry ) , who have long campaign on this issue and bring it to my attention . in 2022 , one of the first meeting I have in my ministerial role be with he . he join I with Aaron , who be in the Gallery today , and his son Tim . we express our very good wish to they for their campaigning . my hon . Friend mention the power that people such as Aaron have to influence think in this place , but that power have to be channel through a willing and capable Member of Parliament — he will be a Minister in due course , I be sure — and he have display that throughout . he have be persistent and his argument have always be compelling , and persistence be important in this space . he have always engage with I , try to find the good way to bring this legislation forward , and he have find it . I be grateful for his effort , and so many parent will be , too , so I thank he very much for his work . the hon . member for Ogmore say — I think profoundly — that there be no politic in bereavement , and that be absolutely right ; there should not be . it be always a pleasure for any Member to bring forward a private Member ' s Bill , and these thing be always team effort . I be delighted to have that opportunity a couple of time myself as a Back Bencher with the Guardianship ( Missing Persons ) Act 2017 and the Parental Bereavement ( Leave and Pay ) Act 2018 , which be first promote by my hon . friend the Member for Colchester ( Will Quince ) . I pick that up on the back of his persuasion when I be draw high in the ballot . it be always a pleasure to say you have achieve significant change in this place , and both member who have contribute today and make the large contribution to bring forward this Bill have do that in no uncertain term . unlike entitlement to maternity leave , which start on the first day of a woman ' s employment , there be currently no day one leave entitlement for employ father and partner . as such , if a mother die in the first year of a child ' s life , a father or partner who have not meet continuity of service requirement for paternity or share parental leave will not have the statutory right to take leave so that they can care for their child . in those tragic , but thankfully rare , circumstance , they need to rely on the compassion of their employer to provide they with adequate leave and job security . it be good to note that Aaron ' s employer do show compassion , but that can not be rely on as a matter of course . as my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) say , we decide to use the paternity leave element of our framework to deliver this legislation , which cover more circumstance . the new statutory entitlement will offer day one leave for father and partner in the event of the mother ' s death in the first year after the child ' s birth . those be tragic circumstance , and it be very move to hear my hon . friend the Member for Hyndburn ( Sara Britcliffe ) talk about her constituent who be in that situation . member have ask in the past for the entitlement to be a pay right . in line with other entitlement , such as statutory parental pay , and for consistency of approach , the Government believe statutory pay should be available only to employee who meet continuity of service and minimum earning test . other than in the case of small employer , employer be require to contribute towards the cost of statutory parental pay and meet the cost associate with their employee ' absence from work . those requirement reflect the relationship between employer and employee , and be design to ensure a parent have make a reasonable contribution to their employer ' s business before that employer be require to administer statutory parental payment . on the number of people the measure should apply to , as the hon . member for Ogmore state , there be about 180 maternal death within 12 month of childbirth per annum . for a variety of reason , we cautiously assume that 50 % of those eligible will take up the leave entitlement . for example , it be highly likely that those who be eligible for share parental leave and pay will take that pay entitlement instead , and some employer may provide pay bereavement , compassionate or special leave . although the number may be small — we estimate few than 100 per annum — we be commit to ensure parent in that position have a dedicated leave entitlement . once in force , the Bill will give bereaved parent the support and protection they need during one of the most devastating period of their life . it will be available to employee , regardless of how long they have be work for their employer , provide they fulfil other eligibility criterion . although we estimate that the number affect by those circumstance be low , the emotional strain and physical toll of care for a new child while grieve the loss of a partner be unimaginable . I be pleased that the Government can support this vital piece of legislation through the Houses . on second Reading and in Committee , its ambition gain cross - party support . we continue to discuss our plan for the Bill with stakeholder , include the Federation of Small Businesses , the Institute of Directors , the Confederation of British Industry and charitable organisation such as Working Families and Pregnant then Screwed , and we look forward to work with they far to develop this legislation . lose a partner be a truly horrific experience for anyone , and combine that terrible grief with the challenge of care for a new baby must be incredibly hard . I very much echo the sentiment express by the hon . member for ogmore : I sympathise with anyone who find themselves in that terrible situation . the United Kingdom have a range of generous entitlement and protection design to help parent balance their family and work commitment and maintain their place in the labour market . for example , the UK have one of the most generous maternity leave entitlement in the OECD . we also offer paternity leave and pay to father and partner , and enable a mother to share her maternity entitlement through share parental leave and pay . we be also on track to deliver neonatal care leave and pay for those parent who need to take time to be with their baby when they be receive neonatal care , with up to 12 week ' entitlement . in all , there be seven new private member ' Bills that expand entitlement in the workplace , and they include : this Bill ; the neonatal care legislation ; the right to request flexible working ; the tipping Bill ; carer ' s leave , which entitle those with a dependant with long - term care need to take up to a week ' s care leave per year ; the right to request predictable term and condition — predictable hour , if you like , Mr Deputy Speaker — and protection from redundancy for parent who be pregnant or on maternity leave when they return to work . my hon . friend be make a good point about the private Members ' Bills that have be come through the House to help with employment right in the workplace . he will recall that I have my own Fertility Treatment ( Employment Rights ) Bill . do he agree that it be important that we do as much as we can to support people go through fertility treatment to get pay time off work ? my hon . friend be a doughty campaigner and have approach the issue in absolutely the right way . I know that she be keen for we to legislate in that area . we have make so many different improvement to workplace entitlement that we do not feel there be parliamentary time available for that , but I know that she will keep campaign . in the background , prior to legislation happen , she have work closely with many employer to ensure that they offer that support on a voluntary basis . she be set the right standard in show what can be achieve even without legislation in this place , and I very much support her effort . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) , ask whether we be consider great protection against redundancy in certain circumstance . we be , and I be happy to have a continue conversation with he on that . when in force , the Bill will ensure that a parent who be already grieve the loss of their partner do not have to worry about whether they will get the necessary leave from work to care for their child . as I state in Committee , the Government wholeheartedly support the amendment table by the hon . member for Ogmore , which be crucial to ensure the Bill ' s effectiveness , fairness and inclusivity , and support the Government ' s commitment to bolster the participation of parent in the workplace . as with most family leave and pay entitlement , much of the detail will be deliver through secondary legislation , which will come before the House in due course . by introduce this change to the legislative framework , we will ensure that employee who lose their partner in the time surround childbirth or adoption have access to a period of leave to care for their new child . this change mean that bereaved partner need not rely on the good will of their employer to take time off work — and , importantly , they can stay connected to the labour market until they can return to work . I thank hon . member for their valuable contribution to the debate . the Bill be an important extension of the support and protection that we already provide to parent ; in this case , it be for when they face one of the most challenging situation of their life . as such , the Government take pride in endorse this private Member ' s Bill . I again thank my hon . friend the Member for Broxtowe , other hon . member who make contribution and , finally , the hon . member for Ogmore for continue to work with I to develop the Bill into a piece of legislation that will work effectively for parent and business alike . I also thank the official , who have do such a fantastic job . as I say , it be not just this legislation , because we have six other private member ' Bills . they have work under huge pressure this year and do a fantastic job . I very much appreciate their effort . I hope that the Bill will progress rapidly to the next stage in Parliament . with the leave of the House , I thank all member who have speak in this debate , include the hon . member for Hyndburn ( Sara Britcliffe ) and for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Jack Brereton ) . the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent South have consistently support the Bill , and I be grateful to he for always be here when the Bill be debate on the Floor of the House . I say at the beginning that I want to thank the organisation that have support the Bill and I do so again . the support of organisation such as Gingerbread , the Fawcett Society and the Childhood Bereavement Network have be invaluable not just in make sure that the Bill work for parent but in give live example of people who be leave behind to raise a child . I have have several conversation with bereaved parent , some of whom be bereaved year and year ago , who have say what a difference this legislation would have make have it exist at the time . nobody expect to lose their partner in childbirth — it be unimaginable in that sense — but now they be able to reflect on it in those term . I could not conclude without pay tribute to the hon . member for Broxtowe ( Darren Henry ) . he be instrumental in convince an Opposition Whip to take on his Bill , and I say at the time that that be quite an achievement . but we be actually here today because of Aaron , Bernadette and Tim . I wish we be not , in truth , but we be , and that be because of people such as Aaron and their dog determination to convince their mp that the law could be change . I pay tribute to the official again , and to the hon . member for Castle Point ( Rebecca Harris ) , who be instrumental in ensure that so many Bills be pass every sitting Friday , week after week . I can recall day when no private Member ' s Bills be pass , Mr Deputy Speaker , under a previous Whip for pmb , and that be the sport of the Friday . these day , many pass with good cause and I be so pleased that member have support the Bill ' s progress to the other place . I look forward to it gain consent from there and from his Majesty the King . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . congratulation , Mr Elmore , and our sincere good wish and thank to Aaron and Tim . British Nationality ( Irish Citizens ) Bill Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee , consider . third reading . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . just yesterday , I be ask by a constituent what relevance or role a Back - Bench MP have . God love that woman , Mr Deputy Speaker , because not only do she get the full precis of my contribution this afternoon , she get all the intricacy of the process and the procedure and the hoop that we go through to make an impact — but make an impact we have . we can not overstate the impact of such Bills — not only those that have progress to Third Reading today , but those that I have have the privilege of hear about and contribute to over the last number of month — or their importance to the life of ordinary people in our country . although there be not an awful lot of awareness of this process , or , indeed much coverage of it , I appreciate that it be there and the role that we play as Back - Bench mps in make a difference to our country . the british Nationality ( Irish Citizens ) Bill have be long in duration and in gestation . the Library be able to dig out initial reference from 1985 , I think , when the issue be first bring before the House of Commons . here we be today , and I hope — if the House consent to Third Reading and we can get on to the Bill ' s subsequent stage in the other place — we will have an opportunity to make a difference for the 31 , 000 citizen within Northern Ireland who would benefit from this . across the United Kingdom , more than a quarter of a million citizen could take the opportunity to benefit from what I have describe throughout the parliamentary process as the final piece in a long constitutional jigsaw . to go into some of the history , just for completeness , for the last 224 year the island of Ireland and the island of Great Britain have be one . they be connect in 1800 , commence in 1801 , through the act of Union , and the life of our citizen have be intertwine ever since . in 1921 , when the island of Ireland be partition , the right of citizen across the island to attain , hold and cherish their british citizenship pertain . the Irish Free State hold dominion status within the british empire and anyone bear within the Irish Free State be still entitle to , and many enjoy , british citizenship . that come to an end in 1948 with the British Nationality Act and the creation of the Irish Republic in 1949 , and it be from that point that people who be bear in the Irish Republic but subsequently move to the United Kingdom — who spend the remainder of their life live , build family and work in the United Kingdom , and from my perspective in Northern Ireland — have be unable to enjoy the same privilege that be open to our forefather . we often talk about the clash between identity and citizenship on these island , but the one piece of the puzzle that have be absent since the Good Friday agreement , when individual with an irish identity live in Northern Ireland be free to attain irish citizenship , be that the same have not be true for those bear in the Irish Republic who live , work and enjoy be in the United Kingdom . that be the essence of this Bill . in order to bring that alive , let we consider my colleague in the other place , Lord Hay . he be bear in Donegal in 1950 , 15 month after the creation of the Irish Republic , but have live almost his entire life in Londonderry , in Northern Ireland . he have be a public servant in Northern Ireland in the United Kingdom for almost 50 year . he join the Northern Ireland Assembly in 1988 and become its Speaker in 2007 . he step down as Speaker in 2014 and become a legislator in this place . he be a peer of our realm , but he do not have british citizenship . the idea that somebody like that — someone who have live almost their entire life in our country , contribute to it through public service , work and pay taxis here , and positively change life in our country — should have to apply for naturalisation , ignore the history of the intertwine relationship between our two island , should have to satisfy a " life in the UK " test and prove that he can speak English , when he be sit in our Parliament , legislate for our country , really do highlight the nonsense . now , I will not be drag into question the ability of member from far - fling part of our community in Northern Ireland to speak English — the Londonderry accent be not the same as the Belfast accent , but it be English none the less . Lord Hay provide a really good , tangible example of why this situation be a nonsense . we know that anybody bear within our island benefit from the common travel area . we know that anybody who hold irish citizenship be free to work , study and vote anywhere in the United Kingdom , and they can benefit from education and healthcare in the United Kingdom . but the final piece be citizenship . they be not the same as somebody from another country in a far - flung place , simply because of our intertwine relationship and our history . so from 1985 the parliamentary effort to redress this issue have continue . my hon . friend the Member for East Londonderry ( Mr Campbell ) be elect to this place in 2001 and have be campaign on this issue since 2001 . Lord Hay , have join the House of Lords in 2014 , have be campaign on it since 2014 . now we have the opportunity to put that final piece in the jigsaw . as I have indicate , 31 , 000 eligible people in Northern Ireland and 260 , 000 eligible people across the United Kingdom could benefit . when I start the private Member ' s Bill process , my focus be on assist those in Northern Ireland , predominantly from the three county of Ulster that be no long in the United Kingdom , who have move across the border . in fairness , the Conservative and Unionist Government far open the door and say that this do not need to be constrain to Northern Ireland , and that it should apply across the United Kingdom . I have never be resistant to that , but I recognise the constraint on private member ' Bills , so I be delighted that we be able to expand the extent of the Bill in Committee so that it apply across the United Kingdom to over a quarter of a million people , include the London Irish and many intersperse throughout our community and constituency . it be a great boon . throughout the parliamentary process on this aspiration , we have benefit from significant cross - party support , not just from the conservative party but from the Labour party . I be grateful that Labour have be in lockstep with we on every opportunity that I have have to raise the issue . Andrew MacKinlay , a great friend of Northern Ireland and the former Labour Member for Thurrock , address this point in 2009 : " we have an opportunity , which the House will probably not have again for some year , to right a wrong , provide parity of treatment for people who be irish … and allow they to identify with their Britishness . " — [ Official Report , 14 July 2009 ; Vol . 496 , c . 220 . ] he be right . the House be unable to land the opportunity in 2009 , but 15 year later we can seize this wonderful opportunity . the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee issue a report in July 2021 — HC 158 — that consider all of these issue , take evidence from Lord Hay and conclude that a citizenship test for individual who , like he , find themselves in this situation would be not only " irrelevant " but " offensive . " I be glad that the Government have take heed of that approach . there have be continual discussion of fee during the passage of my private Member ' s Bill . there be absolutely no reason why somebody who be bear in these island and who already benefit from all the entitlement from which you and I benefit , Mr Deputy Speaker , should have to pay £ 1 , 580 to benefit from citizenship of a country to which they have contribute all their life . the Government be well aware of my position that there should be no need for anything over and above the cost of a passport but , in fairness to they , I recognise that it be not part of this Bill . a fee order would have to be make separately and subsequently , and the Government have be very proactive on this issue and have be very open to a discussion that would consider something far short of what be require today . I be grateful for their engagement with I in that regard . no citizenship test or " life in the UK " test ; a considerably reduce fee ; and an opportunity for we , as a nation , to embrace our near neighbour — individual who be part of our family and our life , but for whom the process require of they be just a step too far . nothing about this Bill be coercive , but it open the door to a wonderful opportunity for we , as a nation , to recognise our near neighbour and bring they close still . People have be campaign for this for 40 year , and there have be many false dawn in Parliament . in 1998 , the Belfast agreement miss the opportunity to redress the balance when irish nationality be offer to those in Northern Ireland who be bear or naturalise as UK citizen . we have the opportunity to afford the same courtesy to those on the other side of the border . I be delighted with the way the Home Office have engage on this issue . the Minister for Legal Migration and the Border have be a joy to engage with over the past couple of month . I be sorry that he be not here today to see the final stage . I suspect that he be sorry too , but he have a most able substitute today , the Minister for Security , who have thoughtfully engage on these issue around Northern Ireland , Ireland and the United Kingdom for many year — someone for whom we have huge regard . so if ever there be somebody to be here on behalf of the Legal Migration Minister , I be delighted it be the Security Minister and he be able to respond on behalf of the Government . this be a great and wonderful opportunity for the people of our island to unify , to strengthen bond , and to get official and national recognition of the tie that bind we together ; something that do not need to have discord and have not have discord . I mention Labour early . I should have mention that the hon . member for Belfast South ( Claire Hanna ) , my constituency neighbour , be pleased to be a part of the Bill Committee . she have be totally supportive , as have the hon . member for North Down ( Stephen Farry ) from the Alliance party . if I have the leave of the House , I will probably have a few more thank to offer , but have an opportunity in this way to progress , most substantively , a 40 - year campaign be so wonderfully appreciated . I hope many across our country will benefit from it . I would just like to put on the record my congratulation to the right hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) and his hon . friend on their persistence . move Third read with the support of the Government and the opposition be a testament to what can happen in this place if people persist . I remember chair a Westminster Hall debate in which the right hon . Gentleman and some of his hon . friend be put pressure on the Minister of State at the Northern Ireland Office , my right hon . friend the Member for Wycombe ( Mr Baker ) . basically , my right hon . friend be unable to respond coherently to the pertinent point that be be make . no doubt that be one of the reason why the right hon . Gentleman ' s Bill have now gain success . he have successfully cross - examine Ministers into the ground and they have be unable to respond coherently , so many congratulation to he . I congratulate the right hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) on bring forward this important Bill , which I welcome and be very happy to support . the Bill highlight the closeness of the relationship between the island of Ireland and the United Kingdom . it address the problem that somebody bear in the Republic of Ireland , who be free to travel , work and vote across the United Kingdom , be still require to undertake a citizenship test when apply for british citizenship . it be an oversight that can be easily make to assume that an irish citizen live anywhere in the United Kingdom , but especially in Northern Ireland , would already be entitle to british citizenship , especially give the uniqueness of our relationship and our close social , cultural and historical tie . I therefore welcome the Bill , which remove a legal technicality and simplify the process for irish citizen wish to officially become british citizen , but I would like to ask the Minister how it might operate in reverse . so , while I welcome the Bill , I would like some clarification from he on how that would work . I call the shadow Minister . it be a pleasure to speak on behalf of the Opposition . I congratulate the right hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) on his success in the ballot and on navigate his bill through Second Reading , Committee and hopefully through these stage very shortly . as we hear in the previous debate , legislate via the private Member ' s Bill route be a tricky art and anyone who reach this stage deserve credit . I know the right hon . Gentleman have speak at previous stage about his good fortune , and doubtlessly that be part of the process , but I think when read those debate that he be sell himself short to some degree . it be no mean feat find an issue that be compelling and relevant and that support can be build around from across the House . that be part of the alchemy of a private Member ' s Bill , and he have pass all those test with this Bill and deserve full credit for that , because in those element there be no fortune at all . as my Front - Bench colleague have put on the record previously , and as I be pleased to reiterate , Labour support the Bill . it be a straightforward Bill , but one that I know will be appreciate by many people . indeed , follow the Belfast / Good Friday agreement and the process put in place to ensure that those from Northern Ireland who wish to gain irish citizenship would be able to do so , many would be surprised to learn that reciprocal arrangement be not in place to ensure that irish citizen have a route to british citizenship if they so wish . we thank the right hon . member and , as he have do , those who have come before he over not just year but , in this case , four decade . we thank those campaigner for put this issue on the agenda and push for change , as the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) say , use each and every device to push it forward persuasively . that be a real model for an effective campaign . it be right that long - term resident of Northern Ireland — or the UK as a whole ; we should recognise the Government ' s wisdom in make that suggestion and change during the process — who be irish citizen and wish to be recognise as citizen of the UK should have that right . on that central point , I reaffirm labour ' s support for the Bill promote by the right hon . member for Belfast East . again , I pay tribute to the right hon . Gentleman and the Government for their wisdom in determine that there need not be a citizenship test . I be a strong believer — I dare say the Minister might say this be not always true because , in Opposition , we love to point out exception to rule — in have regime and structure . we can always come up with special case to say that this or that should be different , but in most case we must have a consistent regime . this , however , be a different case . the nature of the relationship between our nation and within our nation mean that not exempt those individual from a citizenship test would be not only , frankly , a waste of time , but in many case deeply insulting , as the right hon . Gentleman say . that be wise , and again we very much support that . that leave only one more point of contention , and that be fee , which the right hon . Gentleman touch on , and I too want to press the Minister a little on this matter . as the right hon . Gentleman mention , we know that fee in this area be in the region of a little more than £ 1 , 500 . that be a significant sum to anybody . I know we be to expect that the issue of fee will be settle separately in regulation , and the right hon . Gentleman acknowledge that too , and will be debate in the usual way by the House . we know that Ministers have engage on the matter and , again , we welcome that , but I wonder whether the Minister might at least tell we the direction of the Government ' s think in this regard , because it be significant in pertain to how the Bill will operate in practice and how accessible the provision of the Bill will be in future . will the Minister set out what further discussion he and his colleague have have since Committee and whether the Government be work up potentially agreeable solution particularly to test this basic point of substance , which I think the Government have accept , that by waive the citizenship test , the case involve irish citizen be different to that of citizen of other country who seek to obtain british citizenship ? again , that be a significant point , but a point of consensus . do the Minister therefore believe that the same principle could be read across on fee as well ? if so , will that give we a sense of what we might expect in regulation ? I be keen to hear from the Minister about the Government ' s direction of travel on this issue , and perhaps when they expect to reach their destination and have something public to share about what they intend to do . at this point , I be keen to hear those reflection from the Minister and do not want to detain the House any far , so I will wind up there . I again congratulate the right hon . Gentleman and those who have work with he for the success of the Bill so far , and I wish he every luck as it proceed to the other place . on behalf of the Minister for Legal Migration and the Border , my hon . friend the Member for Corby ( Tom Pursglove ) , let I start by thank all member , from across the House , particularly those who serve on the Bill Committee , who have engage in debate the Bill ' s merit on Second Reading , in Committee and today on Third Reading . as many have say , this Bill be a huge credit to the right hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) , who have rightly champion people be able to have the right to recognition as he have set out . he have conduct himself in an exemplary manner , not only with my ministerial colleague , who speak highly of he and have be grateful for the engagement he have have in recent week and month , but with Home Office official . as other have note , the right hon . Gentleman have be persistent , diligent and challenging where the answer have not always be forthcoming as quickly as he would have like . he have manage to get the right answer and to get they write down , so it be a huge testament to he that the Bill have secure cross - party support . on Second Reading , Madam Deputy Speaker note the " good - natured and constructive debate " that have take place . I be pleased that that have continue , although I be not surprised ; in the Government ' s view , this Bill be do the right thing and will make a real difference to irish national and to those who have make their home here in the UK and want to take the next step to become british citizen . as we sit here , I be remind of the word of our late sovereign , her Majesty Queen Elizabeth , when she speak in 2011 on the occasion of her state visit to the Republic of Ireland : " no one who look to the future over the past century could have imagine the strength of the bond that be now in place between the Governments and the people of our two nation " . what the right hon . Gentleman be do today be make that recognition a little clear , fresher and more meaningful . my hon . friend the Minister for Legal Migration and the Border also ask I again to reflect on the unique position that irish national hold within the UK . I hope the right hon . Gentleman will forgive I for stray when I reflect on not an arbitrary group of individual , but my own family . like many in the UK , I have family go back to what be now the Republic of Ireland but be then the island of Ireland as part of the United Kingdom . they be from Limerick , and my father exercise his right and secure an irish passport a number of year ago . that connection be something that many of we see not just in the live expression of our ancestry , but in the history of freedom that our citizen have secure together . we do not need to look down many of the memorial here in England before we start see name that be clearly from the island of Ireland and realise that our share struggle for freedom be reflect , sadly , in the pain of loss of family across these island . irish national already enjoy the right to work , study and vote , alongside have benefit such as access to our health service and social welfare . the common travel area arrangement for irish national be now in statute under 3za of the Immigration Act 1971 . that protect the ability of irish national to enter and live in the UK without need a grant of immigration , leave to enter or remain . that relationship be reciprocate by the Irish Government in regard to british citizen enter Ireland and this strengthen the relationship between our two country . indeed , the right to hold and to live both identity be also guarantee in the Belfast / Good Friday agreement , and many people have exercise it . indeed a member of my private office who luxuriate under the joint nationality exercise it to this day . irish national who be exercise their right to live and work in the UK must currently undertake the naturalisation process to gain british citizenship . there be many requirement associate with naturalisation . there be many requirement associate with naturalisation , such as a period of residence — usually five year — which be replicate in the Bill . however , many immigration requirement for naturalisation be design for those who require formal grant of leave . it be not right to fully apply those to irish national seek to obtain british citizenship . equally , the need to demonstrate competence of language — usually English , although Welsh and Scots Gaelic be also option — and to pass the life in the United Kingdom test seem at odd with the position of irish national in the United Kingdom . we be glad that they do not feature in this Bill . this issue have be raise in the House previously by hon . member , such as the hon . member for East Londonderry ( Mr Campbell ) . likewise , it have be discuss by Lord Hay of Ballyore , who sit in the other place — as an aside , a member of my private office have decide quite extraordinarily to go and run a marathon in Donegal this weekend , for which I can only wish he good luck . they have highlight the strong feeling about the issue , in addition to the cost of naturalisation . my hon . friend the Member for Corby would like to express his happiness with the Bill and the improvement it make to our statute book . although the Government support the underlie principle of the Bill , full Government support be dependent on the Bill be amend . thank to the right hon . member for Belfast East and the constructive approach that have characterise the Bill , those amendment be readily include . follow the action of Committee member who scrutinise and debate the Bill , the amendment have pass and the Government be able to offer their full , unbridled and unconditional support as it complete its way through the House and move to the other place . the Bill as introduce to the House allow for only people bear in Ireland after 31 December 1948 , have be resident in Northern Ireland for five year , to register as british citizen . the right hon . Member and the whole House will know that before that date , citizen could not have be bear in the Republic of Ireland as the Republic have not be declare , so they be automatically eligible for british citizenship . the right hon . Member will forgive I for express that his modest initial proposal do not recognise the idea that he and I both share : the United Kingdom be whole and integral , and therefore citizenship law that apply in Northern Ireland , as he have suggest , should apply to the rest of the United Kingdom , except when a particular treaty — the Good Friday agreement , for example — change element of that . I be glad that he have welcome — as I know he would — the expansion of the Bill to the whole United Kingdom . follow the amendment make in Committee , the Bill ' s provision will apply to all eligible irish national of all age who live anywhere in the United Kingdom for five year . as note by my hon . friend the Member for Corby on Second Reading , the amendment make in Committee have do that , first , by make the route available to irish national — regardless of how they become irish — and not just those bear in Ireland . those cover by the provision of the Bill as it be introduce will still be include , but the amend Bill be more expansive in approach . it will give all eligible irish national a more straightforward pathway to become a british citizen . secondly , it do not have a requirement that an irish national must have be bear after a certain date . under the amend Bill , people bear on or before 31 December 1948 will have the same opportunity to make use of it as people bear after that date . thirdly , qualify resident can be from any part of the United Kingdom , not just Northern Ireland . that ensure that all eligible irish national resident anywhere in the United Kingdom will be able to make use of this important piece of legislation . that reflect the important point that become a british citizen be about a tie to the whole United Kingdom , not just one constituent part , even be we to expect its uptake to be proportionately more in Northern Ireland . I know that the right hon . member for Belfast East agree strongly with that . the Bill will add a new registration route to the British Nationality Act 1981 . it seek to insert a new section 4aa to allow any irish national who have complete the qualify residential period in the United Kingdom to be register as a british citizen if they apply and meet the requirement . the requirement be a period of five year ' lawful residence without excess absence , a specific assessment of the 12 month prior to the application , and be of good character . the Secretary of State would of course retain discretion over the residential requirement , allow he or she to treat they as have be meet even when they have not , where the exceptional circumstance of a particular case merit do so . in keep with other application for british citizenship , albeit not on the face of the Bill , irish national would also be expect to enrol their biometric and successful applicant age 18 or over would be require to attend a citizenship ceremony . it would be remiss of I not to highlight that this Bill , alongside all other residential application route for british citizenship , be subject to the relevant section of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 on citizenship application . I do not need to revisit the Government ' s position in this area , as agree by Parliament in pass that Act . a question come up from my hon . friend the Member for Hyndburn ( Sara Britcliffe ) about reciprocal request to the Irish Government . that be a matter for the Irish Government , but I have to say we have an extremely friendly relationship with the Irish Government ; indeed , the elevation of the new Taoiseach in recent day be a matter for some celebration to many of we . he have be a friend for a number of year . I be sure he will serve the irish people extremely well , and I hope that the friendship we have develop over the year may see an evolution in this area — but that be a matter for they , not for we . my hon . friend the Member for Corby would like to reiterate his acknowledgement that the right hon . member for Belfast East be not in agreement with the Government over the aim of the Illegal Migration Act . however , it be necessary to ensure a consistent approach across the statute book , even if it be highly unlikely that an irish national would ever fall foul of that Act ' s provision . furthermore , my hon . friend the Member for Corby be cognisant of the discussion to be have around fee for this registration route and note the question and comment that be raise in Committee on that point . as member of this House may be aware , the unit cost for border and migration service be review annually , an exercise that be currently under way follow the financial year end . the unit cost for the propose route will form part of that annual review , to ensure consistency in that calculation ; once that be complete , my hon . friend will be able to engage far with the right hon . member for Belfast East in that space . I must make clear , as my hon . friend the Member for Corby also do , that this be intend not to be a profitable scheme for the Government , but merely a way of recognise that there be a cost , and it would be right that that cost fall on those exercise this right and not on every citizen . this Bill have enjoy varied and cross - party discussion and debate on its journey through the House . that discussion facilitate the amendment pass in Committee , which will expand the number of irish national in the United Kingdom who may make use of the provision to obtain british citizenship . from early in the life cycle of this Bill , it be and continue to be the Government ' s belief that a dedicated route for irish citizen will reduce the burden for such applicant and create a more straightforward process to become a british citizen for our close neighbour . the establishment of a dedicated route could potentially also allow for a low fee to be charge , although I have already highlight that that must be consider in line with ongoing work surround the border and migration service fee . the Government be unequivocal in our support for the underlie principle of the Bill , which be first introduce by the right hon . member for Belfast East , and we be pleased to provide our full support for the Bill as amend in Committee . my hon . friend the Minister for Legal Migration and the Border and I would like once again to concur with and congratulate the right hon . gentleman on his success in the ballot and on help the Government to find a way to correct the issue in our nationality system . I personally congratulate the right hon . Gentleman and wish his important Bill well as it move through to the other place . it will make a welcome amendment to our current legislation — one that I hope will be exercise by those who have rightly and in a most welcome fashion make their home among we and be part of our life today . with the leave of the House , I call Gavin Robinson . as I say , Mr Deputy Speaker , this will be just a list of thank yous from I , and I thank you for your expert chairmanship . I thank the Minister for the way in which he have engage and pick up the baton incredibly well — I appreciate it — and I thank the Minister for Legal Migration and the Border , the hon . member for Corby ( Tom Pursglove ) , who have be great in his engagement . I thank the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Nottingham North ( Alex Norris ) , for his comment . Anne - Marie Griffiths from the Public Bill Office have be very forgiving , give that I have continually ask question that she have probably answer on four or five occasion . I appreciate all the assistance from the Public Bill Office . the Home Office official have be incredible in their assistance , expertise , guidance , encouragement and support , so huge thank go to Mr Darlow and his team . I thank James in my team for keep I on the straight and narrow . I thank the Comptroller of his Majesty ' s Household , the hon . member for Castle Point ( Rebecca Harris ) . I could not explain to you , Mr Deputy Speaker , the stress associate with organise private member ' Bills Fridays , which she outline for I , but you might ask she later on . I thank the hon . member for Hyndburn ( Sara Britcliffe ) for her comment , and the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) , to whom I be grateful for remember the Westminster Hall debate and our interaction with the Minister of State , Northern Ireland Office , the right hon . member for Wycombe ( Mr Baker ) . the hon . member for Christchurch wish to follow my Bill with the Second reading of his own , so with that , I shall sit down . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . Public Health ( Control of Disease ) Act 1984 ( amendment ) Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . this be the Bill ' s first outing in debate , because although it be present in the 2022 session , unfortunately the House be unable to debate it . it relate directly to the beginning of the pandemic and the emergency measure that be take by the Government and Parliament in implement the Coronavirus Act 2020 . at the time , a lot of concern be express about insufficient scope for parliamentary scrutiny under the Public Health ( Control of Disease ) Act 1984 , and how the level of scrutiny available under that Act compare unfavourably to that available under the Civil Contingencies Act 2004 . since that time , a number of academic and other article have be write , and speech give , in which the concern have be express that the Government use the wrong tool to implement restriction on individual liberty during that pandemic , result in this House have an insufficient role in scrutinise that important legislation . this issue be raise , very ably , by my hon . friend the Member for Windsor ( Adam Afriyie ) during the original debate on the Bill that become the Coronavirus Act 2020 . he say : " the whole purpose of the 30 - day provision in the Civil Contingencies Act be for the Executive to be accountable to Parliament . " the Leader of the House , however , respond to a point that he have make early by say : " we can not use the Civil Contingencies Act … if we have time to bring forward legislation , it be proper that we do that , and anything we do under the power of the 2004 Act would apply for only 30 day . " — [ Official Report , 23 March 2023 ; Vol . 674 , c . 132 . ] well , that be exactly what the Civil Contingencies Act 2004 be there to do . it be implement to deal with emergency even graver than that cause by the coronavirus pandemic . the Civil Contingencies Act be the subject of detailed discussion before its enactment . section 28 be entitle " parliamentary scrutiny : prorogation and adjournment " , while section 27 provide for " parliamentary scrutiny " in other circumstance , state that " where emergency regulation be make " under the Act , " a senior Minister of the Crown shall as soon as be reasonably practicable lie the regulation before Parliament , and … the regulation shall lapse at the end of the period of seven day begin with the date of lay unless during that period each House of Parliament pass a resolution approve they … if each House of Parliament pass a resolution that emergency regulation shall cease to have effect , the regulation shall cease to have effect … at such time , after the passing of the resolution , as may be specify in they , or … no time be specify in the resolution , at the beginning of the day after that on which the resolution be pass … if each House of Parliament pass a resolution that emergency regulation shall have effect with a specified amendment , the regulation shall have effect as amend " . the Civil Contingencies Act therefore enable the regulation introduce under its provision to be amend , unlike the Public Health ( Control of Disease ) Act 1984 . the Government take advantage of that during the pandemic , and I be try to put it right by include in my Bill provision to ensure that there be scrutiny so that there will no long be a perverse incentive for the Government , when face with a pandemic or similar emergency , to resort to the use of the 1984 Act rather than the Civil Contingencies Act , on the basis that it would suit they to use the former rather than the latter because it would be subject to less scrutiny . clause 1 of my Bill provide that section 45d of the 1984 Act should be amend so that " the appropriate Minister must lay before Parliament a statement that the restriction or requirement be proportionate under subsection ( 1 ) " , and that " in the case of english regulation , that proportionality must be demonstrate by a regulatory impact assessment that have be lay before Parliament . " the importance of such a regulatory impact assessment can not be overstate . we now look back on that period three year ago , and consider the consequence that flow from the over - zealous restriction that be introduce by the Government . almost every day we hear of the adverse consequence for a whole cohort of young people who be exclude from school for extensive period . as a result , not only have their education be damage but their health , welfare and , particularly , their mental health . in my view , that be a direct consequence of this House not have have the opportunity to consider the cost and benefit of introduce such draconian restriction on people ' s ability to participate in their school education . a similar point can be make about business be able to carry on what they be do normally . I visit a garden centre a few week ago . in the height of the pandemic it be verboten that people could visit garden centre . for a time people be not even allow to go to the refuse disposal point to get rid of their rubbish . they be not allow to venture out and meet their love one , even in open space . as a result , a whole mass of people lose their loved one without really be able to say goodbye to they , because they be incarcerate in care home . we must never allow such a situation to be repeat in another health or other type of emergency without the proper scrutiny . when one look back over the course of this Parliament , it be possible to say that if we have be able to scrutinise the social distancing regulation to a great extent , the Prime Minister in office at the time of the pandemic would still be in office today . the regulation and restriction of which he fall foul would not have be in place , because somebody would have ask some sensible question . the Government would have be persuade that the workplace regulation should have enable people work during the emergency to try to deliver benefit for the public to be allow have a cup of tea or a bun together without fall foul of the law . the use of the Public Health ( Control of Disease ) Act 1984 may well have have the direct consequence — unintentionally , obviously — of deprive the former Prime Minister of his post . when the history book come to be write , these restriction may be see as a much more significant decision by the Government , though as the head of the Government , the Prime Minister himself at that time decide to use the 1984 Act rather than the 2004 Act regulation . my Bill would ensure that we not only have proper parliamentary scrutiny of the regulation under section 45d of the 1984 Act , but that under section 45q we introduce a provision that " before such regulation may be make , a draft of the statutory instrument contain they shall be lay before each House of Parliament for a period of not less than twenty day on which that House have sit , and , if either House before the expiration of that period present an address to her Majesty against the draft or any part thereof , no further proceeding shall be take thereon ( but without prejudice to the making of a new draft statutory instrument ) and that part of the draft shall not have effect unless both Houses by resolution approve it , or , if any modification in that part be agree to by both Houses , except as so modified . " the consequence of that would be that there would be no incentive for a Government to introduce restriction on freedom under the 1984 Act ; instead , they would use the Civil Contingencies Act , which be of course set up for that very purpose . I refer early to the public commentary about this issue . most significantly perhaps , the noble Lord Sumption give a lecture in which he express doubt about the legal basis for the draconian measure and argue strongly that we need proper parliamentary scrutiny . another commentator , Tom Hickman KC , make the case not for use the 2004 Act but for have bespoke legislation to deal with such situation in the future . the public health regulation that come into effect on 26 March 2020 set out criminal law that require each person or household to remain in their home until further notice . there be very narrow ground on which people be able to leave their home . the guidance that the Government issue be , as we eventually discover through the court , often over - claim and overuse by the enforcement authority . we also find that those regulation essentially set up a system of false imprisonment , completely in breach of all principle of english common law . there be tremendous restriction on people ' s ability to go out and earn a living , and the reasonable excuse available to they to avoid the lockdown requirement be strictly limited . let we not forget the consequence for individual liberty , and for a whole generation of young and old people , who be particularly affect by these draconian law , bring in by the Government under the wrong piece of legislation and insufficiently scrutinise by this House . let that never happen again . let we hope that Baroness Hallett , when she look at this issue in the public inquiry , reach the conclusion that the Government do indeed go too far in lock down , restrict freedom and prevent people from access education or see their love one in care home . that inquiry will reach a conclusion in perhaps five or 10 year ' time — who know ? — but I hope that , if the government do not support my Bill today , a future Government will be persuade by Baroness Hallett ' s report to do exactly the same thing and ensure the Public Health ( Control of Disease ) Act 1984 contain proper scrutiny provision as safeguard . the shadow Minister have indicate that she would like to make a very short contribution . the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) be a consistent campaigner against lockdown during the pandemic and have continue to be since . the UK be badly unprepared . nhs waiting list be at record level even before the pandemic hit . we have staff shortage of 100 , 000 in our health service and 112 , 000 vacancy in social care . the Government ' s handling of public health measure be chaotic as we jump in and out of lockdown , and the well scientific advice be frequently ignore . the primary duty of any Government be to keep the public safe and to make sure we be prepare for national emergency like the one we face in 2020 , but there be a few problem with the approach highlight today . the Bill would require regulatory impact assessment to be conduct before any regulation could come into effect in England . any regulation would have to be lay for at least 20 day before they could pass into statute . we know that in pandemic sometimes government have to move quickly , and the requirement to wait at least 20 day before regulation come into effect seem a potentially dangerous move . to my mind , the question that the hon . member raise be more one of whether the Government be up to the task of deal with another public health emergency in a way that ensure that democratic accountability and public confidence be maintain . if decision be take transparently and if everyone be see to be follow the rule , we stand a much well chance of maintain public confidence and make well decision . I do not agree that this Bill , which risk tie the Government ' s hand behind their back during a national emergency , be the way to do it . I would like to see what the covid - 19 inquiry say about how that be handle and how we as a Parliament should deal with these issue in future . I be sure that the hon . member for Birmingham , Edgbaston ( Preet Kaur Gill ) will want to welcome the news that in the past 12 month to March 2024 , 63 million more GP appointment be deliver by our superb GPs and practice staff than in March 2019 . that be more than 1 . 4 million extra per work day . I be sure she would be delighted to praise our gps and health professional for that . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) for provide the House with an opportunity to debate an important area of public policy . I be aware of his ongoing interest in this area . we have discuss the pandemic on many occasion in this place , and no doubt we will do so again . the particular issue his Bill raise be parliamentary scrutiny of emergency legislation make under the Public Health ( Control of Disease ) Act 1984 . that be also a topic we have debate before , and a matter about which he have table two identical private member ' Bills in previous parliamentary Sessions . we take the parliamentary scrutiny of new legislation and of the measure that the Government take to respond to the pandemic extremely seriously . however , such scrutiny must be balance against the need to act quickly and decisively to respond to a health emergency and to protect the public . during the covid - 19 pandemic , the Government have to move quickly to introduce new law and guidance to protect public health and maintain access to essential service . my hon . friend will be aware that during the covid - 19 pandemic , as decision be make at pace , minister from the Department make regular statement to the House and invite scrutiny on policy — indeed , my hon . Friend speak on many of those occasion himself — as well as regular call for colleague across the House so that they could ask question and seek solution for member of the public who be look for answer . moreover , the Government have respond to numerous parliamentary inquiry and Committee report and respond on a range of issue , include legislative mechanism employ during the pandemic response . turn to the private Member ' s Bill before the House , my hon . friend seek to amend section 45d of the Public Health ( Control of Disease ) Act 1984 , which impose certain restriction on the power to make regulation under section 45c . section 45C relate to the domestic regulation that can be make to counter the spread of infectious disease . part 2A of the 1984 Act , under which those relevant section sit , be add follow the global severe acute respiratory syndrome outbreak in 2008 . Parliament give the Government broad power to deal with precisely the same type of threat as those we face during the covid - 19 pandemic . Parliament empower Ministers to use regulation to prevent , protect against , control or provide a public health response to incident , the spread of infection or contamination . regulation make under section 45c that impose restriction and requirement be subject to a requirement that there must be a serious and imminent threat to public health . that test be certainly meet during the covid - 19 pandemic . the making of regulation be already subject to a test of proportionality , and where the regulation confer power on other to impose restriction and requirement , those person must consider that their decision be proportionate . so I do not support the proposal to make regulation under section 45c subject to additional — the debate stand adjourn ( Standing Order No . 11 ( 2 ) ) . order , that the debate be resume on Friday 17 May . business without Debate BBC Licence Fee Non - Payment ( decriminalisation for over - 75 ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 17 May . Consular Assistance Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 7 June . Bereavement Support ( Children and Young People ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 7 June . member of Parliament ( Oil and Gas Companies ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 21 June . Multi - Storey Car Parks ( Safety ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 14 June . standard in Public Life ( code of Conduct ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 7 June . Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 ( Amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 7 June . Public Procurement ( british Goods and Services ) Bill Resumption of adjourned debate on question ( 15 March ) , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . debate to be resume on Friday 7 June . public Sector Exit Payments ( Limitation ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 17 May . Green Belt ( Protection ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 17 May . Greater London Low Emission Zone Charging ( Amendment ) Bill Resumption of adjourned debate on question ( 22 March ) , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . debate to be resume on Friday 17 May . Highways Act 1980 ( Amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 17 May . Covid - 19 Vaccine Damage Payments Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 17 May . Statutory Instruments Act 1946 ( amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 17 May . dangerous Dogs Act 1991 ( amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 17 May . exemption from Value Added Tax ( Miscellaneous Provisions ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 17 May . Covid - 19 Vaccine Diagnosis and Treatment Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 17 May . Caravan Site Licensing ( Exemption of Motor Homes ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 17 May . NHS England ( Alternative Treatment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 17 May . British Broadcasting Corporation ( Privatisation ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 17 May . child ' s Clothing ( Value Added Tax ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 17 May . Regulatory Impact assessment Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 17 May . Barnett Formula ( Replacement ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 17 May . rule of Law ( Enforcement by Public Authorities ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 17 May . Illegal Immigration ( Offences ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 17 May . National Health Service Co - Funding and Co - Payment Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 17 May . Caravan Sites Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 17 May . Domestic Energy ( Value Added Tax ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 17 May . child Criminal Exploitation Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 17 May . Petition - Recommendations of the Infected Blood Inquiry the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Ogmore , declare that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait far too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002966 ] propose Hospital : North Hampshire Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Rebecca Harris . ) for heart attack patient suffer from cardiogenic shock , every 10 - minute delay in treatment equate to a 3 . 3 % increase in the risk of death . that startling fact not only emphasise that every minute matter when it come to emergency patient receive treatment , but highlight the importance of locate our new hospital strategically . after all , a hospital ' s reason to be be to save life , and we must use the most up - to - date clinical evidence to ensure they do that whenever possible . last year , the then Secretary of State for Health and Social Care confirm the big infrastructure investment in my constituency ' s history : £ 700 million to £ 900 million for a new north Hampshire hospital at the Hampshire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust . we have just complete an extensive public consultation on how the new hospital will evolve , and on the provision of service at two of the hospital in the HHFT — the Basingstoke and North Hampshire Hospital and the Royal Hampshire County Hospital in Winchester . the result of the consultation be due to be release in the come week . although I very much look forward to see the view of resident on those important plan , I also believe it be essential that hospital service be configure so that they can well deliver treatment to patient , and that must be do by listen to how clinical expert feel we ought to locate service on a hospital and departmental level . although funding be confirm last year , work to identify potential site for the new acute hospital begin in 2019 . a comprehensive search for the right location span north Hampshire , include Alton , Andover , Basingstoke , Eastleigh , Winchester and the surround area , as well as practical consideration such as price , availability and size . fundamental to HHFT ' s criterion be a series of clinical consideration on how to improve patient outcome and increase accessibility . in the end , two viable site be identify , one of which be the trust ' s preferred option , between Basingstoke and Winchester near junction 7 of the M3 . the other be on the exist Basingstoke hospital site . during assessment , the current Winchester hospital site be also consider as an option . however , it be deem too small to accommodate all of the service need at our new acute specialist hospital and , besides , there be no adjacent land that could facilitate future expansion . a key reason why junction 7 be the preferred site be that the ambulance service have argue in the past that it would enable the sick patient to access care more quickly . locate a hospital in the centre of a town or city may be convenient for patient attend elective surgery , but it be increasingly awkward for ambulance in a race against time . as the statistic about heart attack demonstrate , ambulance be often in a race against time , and junction 7 be a convenient location between Winchester and Basingstoke with easy access to the M3 . combine with the important access consideration , build a new hospital at junction 7 would also not disrupt exist service while construction take place . these proposal be root in science and clinical experience , and they will save life . it be clear to I that resident from across north Hampshire should follow the expert opinion and throw their weight behind support the junction 7 approach . not only be clinical guidance essential to the siting of the new hospital ; so too be the location of specific service . the new HHFT hospital consultation introduce the trust ' s new model of care , which centralise crucial service . that approach be underpin by mountain of clinical evidence and research . medical evidence suggest that centralise service in this way reduce duplication , increase the quality of care and be good for patient . this model have already be roll out in some department , such as cardiology . a person who have a heart attack in north or mid - Hampshire will be send to an amazing new heart centre in Basingstoke , where they be assure of top - quality care at all hour of the day . the result have show that this approach save life . member do not have to take my word for it , because seven of Hampshire ' s top clinician , include the chief medical officer , publish an open letter in support of this approach : " bring together more specialist service for the most seriously ill patient onto one site would mean we be able to bring service in line with good practice and national guideline . this mean if you be critically unwell , you will be see by experience senior doctor and nurse who be expert in their field . this would have significant benefit for patient , both in term of improvement to their care and their clinical outcome . " to bring the benefit of the new model into even great focus , I will touch on two particular area of service : maternity and emergency care . neonatal care unit be grade on a three - tier scale , range from level 1 , which can treat unwell baby , to level 3 , which can care for the most premature or unwell baby . the trust previously have a level 2 rating , which be temporarily change to level 1 - plus in November 2023 follow an unannounced Care Quality Commission visit after a series of complaint . although the trust ' s overall rating remain good , it be concern that the neonatal unit do not see enough seriously unwell baby for the staff to maintain the specialist skill need for level 2 status . this relegation now mean that , each year , around 100 very sick or premature baby have to travel to Southampton or Frimley Park hospital for treatment . this be clearly not easy for family , but we have be gift a golden opportunity to make sure the decision be reverse so that more baby can be look after close to their family . good practice and standard suggest that there should be 98 hour a week of on - site consultant cover , with 60 hour be the minimum requirement . at the moment , both maternity site in Winchester and Basingstoke be able to provide only the minimum requirement . be service not duplicate across two site , the hospital could provide one unit with more hour of consultant cover , thereby reach the recommend number of case necessary to regain level 2 status . the current level 1 - plus status of our maternity service show that the status quo be not an option . north and mid - Hampshire need a well service , and the sure way to secure it be by follow the medical advice and centralise the service of the maternity unit into one hub at the new junction 7 site . another area where the new model of care will have an enormous impact be emergency care , which be set to be reconfigure to reduce waiting time and streamline patient ' treatment . a large emergency department , complete with trauma unit and child ' s emergency department , will be centralise at the new junction 7 site . it will specialise in treat the most serious case . however , both Basingstoke and Winchester will have an urgent treatment centre , and each will be lead and support by advanced nurse practitioner , doctor and other health professional . both will be open 24 hour a day , seven day a week , and have be design to provide quick treatment . it have be estimate that two third of case currently be treat in A & E could be see at an utc , include all but the most serious illness and injury . restructure facility in this way will free up staff in A & E to focus on the most unwell patient , while simultaneously reduce the waiting time for patient with less serious ailment . plan have be rigorously draw up in a way that ensure patient be rapidly assess , diagnose and treat . both those case , of maternity and emergency service , underline the importance of listen to and follow clinical guidance when determine not only the location but the configuration of our new hospital service . the Government have make it very clear that they wish to see both Basingstoke and North Hampshire Hospital and Royal Hampshire County Hospital , Winchester continue to provide service . that have be reiterate by the hospital trust itself . the plan be about a significant reconfiguration of where and how those service be provide . the recommendation be base on expert clinical advice , because clinician be well place to identify the good way to treat patient . we would do well to listen carefully to their advice and , as far as possible , to follow the plan inform by their methodological research . the Hampshire and Isle of Wight integrate care board be due to publish the finding of the consultation that have be carry out imminently . we be all look forward to see those result , but the Hampshire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust must ensure , on behalf of resident and its patient , that the clinical evidence , good practice and expert experience of clinician remain at the forefront of its mind throughout . the £ 900 million investment in our health service in north and mid Hampshire be a once - in - a - lifetime opportunity to improve what be on offer to resident throughout those community , but we only have one opportunity to get it right . I hope the Minister , in her reply , can confirm to I her intention to support Hampshire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust to make sure that it follow clinical advice , while also ensure that it have listen to resident . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) on secure a debate on this really important issue . I be respond on behalf of the Minister for Health and Secondary Care , my right hon . friend the Member for Pendle ( Andrew Stephenson ) , who tell I that she have be a tireless campaigner for Basingstoke on this matter , as well as on countless other . the Government believe that the people of Hampshire should , of course , have a say on where their new hospital should be build . as my right hon . Friend say , we have ask people from across the county to share their view with Hampshire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust . I be sure she understand , however , that it would be wrong of we to pre - empt their view , or indeed to interfere with their decision making , but I be happy to assure she that we remain committed to deliver the new hospital . the trust and the integrated care board be go through the response as we speak . they will submit a business case for NHSE regional approval through the ICB in a few month ' time . I should be clear that while the trust and the ICB do that , there will be no final decision on the new hospital ' s location or the service it will deliver , but once a decision have be take we will , of course , update the House . I be sure my right hon . friend will have much to say about that herself , too . I want to address the point my right hon . friend raise on the importance of clinical guidance in form decision making . she be absolutely right to say that decision should be locally lead and base on the good clinical evidence . that be why proposal must meet our test for good decision making , which include a clear evidence base that be in keep with clinical guidance and good practice . in develop the consultation , the trust have look at a variety of option to deliver clinical care in Basingstoke and Winchester . expert have be consult at every stage of the process to provide appropriate clinical guidance . two particular example in the consultation demonstrate how the trust use clinical guidance to inform the option it have put forward . first , on proposal around accident and emergency service , the trust receive expert clinical guidance from local doctor , who strongly agree that maintain emergency department at both Basingstoke and Winchester would be unsafe and unsustainable . the trust also receive advice from the South East Coast Clinical Senate , an independent panel of senior doctor who express concern over retain an A & E department at both site , due to serious concern around patient safety . instead , it have argue that acute medical service must be twin with surgical service in order for patient to receive first - class care . therefore , the proposal include two brand - new 24 / 7 doctor - lead urgent treatment centre and same - day emergency care to deal with most urgent care need — one at the new specialist acute hospital and one at Winchester ' s Royal Hampshire County Hospital . secondly , the proposal give the people of Hampshire an emergency department with a trauma unit and a child ' s emergency department at the specialist acute hospital , which will treat the most serious condition . as my right hon . Friend say in her remark , it be essential for new mother and mum - to - be to have the good possible care for themselves and their baby — she will know that this be an area of healthcare that be very dear to my heart . the trust have look carefully at keep obstetrician - lead maternity service at the Royal Hampshire County Hospital , but find that many patient safety issue have leave they not viable , particularly follow the 2022 publication of the independent Ockenden review of maternity service at the Shrewsbury and Telford Hospital NHS trust , which set out the need for obstetrician - lead maternity service to be in hospital that can also provide emergency surgery and critical care . in Hampshire , those service could only be provide at the new specialist acute hospital , because the neonatal unit at the Winchester site currently do not treat enough baby to meet the requirement for level 2 care , while consolidated service at the new specialist acute hospital will meet that requirement . the rationale be that the proposal will lead to few baby ' be transfer out of the area to receive vital neonatal care , and I think the whole House will agree that the last thing new mother need after give birth be an extra journey to receive critical care . I thank my right hon . friend for raise this important issue and for continue to engage with the new hospital scheme . she be a real champion for her constituent in this place , and they will have see she fight their corner today . we want to do everything in our power to get the people of Hampshire the world - class care they deserve . we will continue to support the trust throughout the development of the business case , to ensure that plan meet the need of staff and patient as well as offer value for money for taxpayer . I understand that my right hon . friend the Member for Pendle have recently commit to visit Basingstoke and I be sure my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke will take immense pride in show he around one of England ' s extremely beautiful town . I thank my right hon . friend for confirm that she , and my , right hon . friend the Member for Pendle will be take the time to come and visit the new hospital . may I encourage she to encourage he to visit the new hospital site that the hospital Minister have already announce that he be in the middle of procure ? I shall certainly pass that message on to my right hon . friend the Member for Pendle , and I again congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke on secure a debate on this very important topic . question put and agree to . House adjourn .