Oral Answers to Questions Culture , Media and Sport the Secretary of State be ask — Heritage Sector : impact of Spending Review what assessment her Department have make of the potential impact of the Spending Review 2025 on the heritage sector . I want to pay tribute to the Chancellor of the Exchequer for the way she conduct the spending review . in the word of Diana Ross , she reach out and touch our Department with £ 8 . 2 billion , mean we can make this world a well place . for the heritage sector , the Department for Culture , Media and Sport be already invest an additional £ 20 million this year through the heritage at risk and heritage revival fund . last month , I be pleased to host a true heritage champion , Dame Mary Beard , in Colchester . she come to visit an incredible sporting heritage site : Britain ' s only know roman chariot race track , the Colchester Roman Circus . she , like I , think that we should make much more of the site and that we be miss a national trick if we do not . do the Minister agree that any new housing development adjacent to the site must make the most of this national heritage value , and will he visit the site , which surely combine both element of his brief — actually , all the element : sport , culture and medium — in the most spectacular fashion ? Ben Hur . do you say Ben Hur , Mr Speaker ? I do not think we be go to enact Ben Hur . we could ride two chariot at once . it be not rugby league , Mr Speaker . as my hon . friend know , I fully support the project , which I know she have be engage in since before she be an MP right through until now . I be delighted that she have Mary Beard involve and I be sure that by the end of this , she will be able to pronounce " Veni , vidi , vici . " the Secretary of State and I be lucky enough to represent Greater Manchester constituency , in a part of the country that play a pivotal role in our industrial heritage . now , although Wigan be lovely , it be not Hazel Grove , so she will not have the junction of the Macclesfield and Peak Forest canal , she will not have our wonderful marple aqueduct and she will not have one of the long lock flight in the country . what support will the Minister give to community like mine that be keen to see our area have world heritage site status so that these heritage asset get the support , funding and protection that they deserve ? well , I have just be tell that I be on the side of Wigan . [ Laughter . ] but there be a more serious point here , which be that the UK have 35 UNESCO world heritage site . we be one of the two big contributor in the world to UNESCO and passionate supporter of it . there be a slight danger that if we have too many and we add too many to the list , people will start try to take other off we , so we have to manage it carefully . none the less , the hon . Lady make a good point about the historic site in many of our constituency that we need to preserve , not least as part of our tourism offer for international visitor . child ' s access to Theatre what step she be take to support child ' s access to theatre . art and culture be erase from both our classroom and our community for 14 year , and we be waste no time in fix that . I be really pleased that in February we be able to announce the £ 270 million art everywhere fund , which will help a whole generation of young people to access theatre and the art that they deserve , as part of their rich , large life . I recently visit Keir Hardie primary school in Canning Town , which have be involve in a scheme run by Disney that end up with 42 of the child perform in " the Jungle Book " in the west end . the child be now absolutely enthuse by the idea of performance and theatre , and the teacher tell I that their concentration be well , their confidence be well and they be show benefit in their academic work . do the Secretary of State agree that as well as the benefit of access to theatre , there be clearly academic benefit too ? we need to see more opportunity like this , particularly in constituency like mine , where circumstance often mean that child do not get access to this kind of thing . I pay tribute to my hon . friend and throw the Government ' s full weight behind the work he be do to support this area ? I have see it for myself at Shakespeare North in Knowsley , where young people be develop communication and oracy skill that they would not otherwise have have , through the amazing work that those institution do . that be why this Government be determined to turn around the appalling legacy that we inherit from the last Government . we will shortly publish the interim report of our national youth strategy . I be appal to find that only one in five young people in the last year have be able to access the art in this country . we be determined that will change . the Secretary of State be get a liking for visit Northern Ireland . with that in mind , what discussion have she have with her counterpart in Northern Ireland on the importance of further engagement between local theatre and school across Northern Ireland — the very thing the hon . member for West Ham and Beckton ( James Asser ) mention — to ensure that young child can access drama in educational setting ? we be very aware of the importance of the art in Northern Ireland , and my hon . friend the Minister for Creative Industries , Arts and Tourism have have discussion directly with our counterpart . it be a devolved matter , but it be the clear view of this Government that art and culture belong to everybody . we be work closely with all nation and region across the UK to make sure that wherever people grow up and whatever their background , there be no barrier to they be able to access the art , which be an essential part of a rich , large life . I call the shadow Minister . as we come into the Chamber today , we hear the tragic news of the passing of Diogo Jota , the Liverpool footballer , at the age of 28 . I want to put on the record our condolence to his friend and family , and to Liverpool fan across the world . these be the first DCMS oral since the spending review , which make real - term cut to DCMS revenue and capital budget . for month , we have be warn the Secretary of State not to let the Chancellor take money away from the creative industry , but it be quite clear that the Secretary of State and her Ministers fail to stand up for this key sector . she talk about the legacy of theatre for child , but of course , to have that , we need a thriving theatre sector . the Society of London Theatre and UK Theatre say that although the Government talk a good game on back our creative industry , the figure tell a different story . they be right , aren ' t they ? the Secretary of State and the Minister fail to stand up for our world - lead theatre and creative industry , didn ' t they ? that be some brass neck from the opposition give the appalling state of what we inherit — not only year of neglect of theatre in particular , but also the lack of investment in the infrastructure and the building , which leave we with a situation where our great national institution be struggle just to stay open . across the country and in so many community , the local theatre , which provide the access to the rich , large life that we have be discuss , be allow to close . the last Government show a violent indifference to theatre and the art in general . we have more than double investment into the creative industry and make they one of our eight priority for growth . I be proud to be work with theatre , big and small , across the country to usher in a new golden era in which they can flourish . live music : Creative Industries Sector Plan what step her Department be take to ensure the creative industry sector plan support the growth of live music . may I take a moment to echo the shadow Minister ' s comment about Diogo Jota ? we receive the heartbreaking news before we come into the Chamber that he tragically lose his life at just 28 year of age . the whole House and my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Wavertree ( Paula Barker ) in particular will be heartbroken by this news , and I want to send our sympathy to his friend and family on behalf of the whole House . the whole House should be proud of the creative industry sector plan . we work on it with the creative industry as a whole and with member across the House . I be really pleased that we have a transformative music growth package worth up to £ 30 million in that sector plan that more than double annual funding . the Secretary of State will know that oasis kick off their world tour this week , and I be proud that their first english gig be in the borough of Bury — a brilliant moment for Manchester ' s world - class live music scene . host the five sell - out show with 72 , 000 fan a night bring the band 50 million quid , but it bring serious local pressure on licensing , safety , transport and clean - up , yet bury receive no funding for those additional cost . the as yet unconfirmed suggest £ 25 , 000 community fund barely scratch the surface . while we be proud to host , should the legacy of such a global event really just be the prep and clear - up cost ? will the Secretary of State and her Department ensure that community like mine see a fair share of the benefit and not just the burden of host major cultural event ? my hon . friend make an important point . it be absolutely fitting that Oasis be return to Greater Manchester , and Bury be a very fitting venue , not least because my hon . friend have long champion live music and also indulge — or should I say inflict ? — live music on many of we for year . he will know that this Government be keen to ensure that the community feel the benefit . in particular , the Minister for Creative Industries , Arts and Tourism have be work hard with industry to introduce a levy on arena and stadium ticket to ensure that we support small venue and help more artist tour nationally . the art and music in particular be an ecosystem , which we be determined to rebuild after 14 year of neglect . I very much support the creative industry sector plan . I think it will do a lot of good in ensure that live music be promote , and I hope to see some of the trickle - down effect that the Secretary of State talk about , but the creative industry sector plan also talk about establish a copyright regime that value and protect human creativity . can she say when we might see the promise report , when the work group might be set up , and who will be ask to serve on they ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that question , because I know this have cause considerable concern to many people in this House and the other place . we be absolutely committed to bring forward legislative change that provide certainty and clarity both for AI and tech company and for the creative industry , and to ensure that transparency and remuneration be at the heart of that legislation . as he rightly say , the creative industry be central to the future of our economy and must be protect . the Government recognise that as well . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Business and Trade and I will bring forward the roundtable and working group before the summer recess . Major Sporting Events what step her Department be take to support the delivery of major sporting event . we be absolutely committed to secure and deliver the big and good major sporting event , build on the UK ' s global reputation . I be delighted to announce recently over £ 500 million to support the delivery of world - class event , with an additional £ 400 million go to grassroots facility across the UK , so that people across the country who be inspire by the incredible sporting event and amazing moment we be bring to our town , village and city can get involve . Mr Speaker , I would like to thank you personally for host the woman ' s rugby world cup reception in Speaker ' s House yesterday evening . it be a magnificent event . I take part in the competition in 1998 — not this year , dash it all ! with England host the woman ' s rugby world cup it be vital and woman and girl see the legacy of those who have go before they and champion their country . sport be so important to the future of woman and girl . will my right hon . friend join I in commit to secure a legacy for woman and girl who will be able to see rugby be play across England and the home nation ? my last point , if you will indulge I , Mr Speaker , be that the woman ' s Euros kick off this week , and even though it be the wrong - shape ball , I be excited to see the Lionesses and the Welsh football team in the competition . it be so important that we celebrate woman in sport . my hon . friend be an incredible champion for sport in general and rugby in particular — Rugby union . I know it be the wrong sort of rugby as far as you be concern , Mr Speaker . we be really proud of this incredible achievement for the UK . it be fitting that my hon . friend ask this question with exactly 50 day to go until the woman ' s rugby world cup kick off . we want to make it the big ever . so far , 275 , 000 ticket have be sell . recently the Prime Minister and I be at St George ' s Park watch the Lionesses train . it be quite a challenge to stop the Prime Minister get involve , although I be not sure he would have come off well , give the level of skill on the pitch . what be so inspiring to the whole nation , whether they be fan of a particular sport or not , be the work the Lionesses have do to ensure that an entire generation of girl know that they belong on the pitch every bit as much as anyone else . we be determined to ensure that this woman ' s rugby world cup do exactly the same for rugby . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I 100 % back the word of the hon . member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) and send all our good wish to the Lionesses as they start their competition shortly . the Secretary of State will know that Royal Ascot last week attract a view population of ten of million , and " Glorious Goodwood " be about to do the same . horserace support about 85 , 000 job across the UK and generate about £ 4 billion a year for the UK economy , but the Secretary of State will know that it face a loom and imminent crisis . when will the Government really start to back british horseracing ? let I reassure the hon . member on this point : we understand not just the joy that horserace bring to million of people in the UK and across the world but the huge economic benefit that it produce . we be absolutely determined to back british horserace to the hilt . the Under - Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley South ( Stephanie Peacock ) , have have several meeting and discussion with industry , and we will continue to ensure we be present , walk alongside they in order to support they . I call the shadow Minister — a former rugby league player . the Government be on the rope after a grand slam of unforced error . since we last meet , we have see the Secretary of State place under investigation after appoint a Labour crony to head the football regulator , the Chancellor slash the DCMS budget and the DCMS Government Whip resign in protest . own goal , knock on , double fault — whatever our choice of sporting analogy , it be clear that they have royally ballse it up . with Labour ' s late u - turn create a fiscal black hole set to be £ 20 billion , what assurance can the Secretary of State give today that her government will not go ahead with their plan tax raid on bingo hall , racecourse and sport betting , which will immensely damage sponsorship of major sporting event , fuel the black market and cost thousand of job across the country ? I apologise ; I could not make head nor tail of that , but this Government be absolutely determined to support bingo . it be something that I immensely enjoy — it be very popular in my home town — and will continue to do so . british Musical act : International Promotion what step she have take to promote british musical act internationally . the new music growth package will invest up to £ 30 million to help emerge british artist access international market with support for touring , showcasing and export promotion . I welcome anything the Government bring forward to support our new band and musician across the country , but the big thing that so many musician be ask for be that we get tour right sort out with our european counterpart . could the Minister update the House on what progress there have be , if any , and how we can go far to get our band out there and their band over here ? if only the right hon . Gentleman have be a Minister in the previous Government , when they fail to take the deal that be on offer from the European Union . I be absolutely determined to get this sorted . we get something — [ interruption . ] if he want to start promote creative industry abroad , he might start think about film — for instance , " Chicken Run " . we want to make sure that british act can prosper across the whole of Europe , and I be talk not just about the big name like Dua Lipa ; I be also talk about young act like Otto Aday , who perform at the Rhondda Arts Festival on Saturday and be amazing , and Caitlin Lavagna , whose song " run a Mile " perhaps would suit the right hon . Gentleman . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . may I associate my party with the word say about Diogo Jota ? it be a tragic loss to the world of football . a few week ago , we stand in this place and talk about the UK - EU reset deal . my party welcome the moderate progress , but we think the Government should go far , particularly on tour artist . the Minister ask we to talk about this with our european liberal colleague . we have start those discussion . can he update we on his discussion and reassure we that this be on the agenda for the next review ? if he do not give we any good news soon on Europe , will he admit that we be close to the final countdown ? I have a horrible fear how that question be go to end . it be really important that we win this battle . this have to be a campaign that we wage across all of Europe — we need to get every single capital city in Europe on our side to make sure that , by the time we get to the next EU - UK summit , we can get this over the line . british act be desperately want , apart from anything else , in lot of different venue and art festival across the whole of Europe . I have speak to the commissioner who be in charge of this . I have also speak to four of my european counterpart . my intention be to get round every single one of they so that we can get this over the line . woman ' s football : Financial Viability what step her Department be take to support the financial viability of woman ' s football . I establish the woman ' s football taskforce in 2024 in response to the Karen Carney review of woman ' s football . the taskforce aim to achieve a financially sustainable woman ' s football pyramid , raise minimum standard for player , fan and everyone involve in the game . as the Euros begin , I know the whole House will join I in wish the Lionesses , and of course Wales , the very good of luck . I thank the Minister for her response ; I know she be aware of some of the financial challenge that my local club in Lewes face . with England about to start the defence of their european title in Switzerland against France on Saturday , do she share my concern that , despite the phenomenal rise in popularity of the woman ' s game , domestic prize money for the woman ' s FA cup still fall woefully short of that for the man ' s ? it be frankly embarrass that in 2025 we still tolerate that glare inequality . will she support my call for the Football Association and the Premier League to equalise the woman ' s FA cup prize fund , so that woman footballer be reward equally for the same achievement as their male counterpart ? I know that the hon . Gentleman be a huge supporter and champion of woman ' s football , and I look forward to visit his constituency in September . I have hear the call from the liberal Democrat Benches and across the House on the FA cup prize money . the fa have take step to increase the total fund for the woman ' s FA cup and we be pay attention to what happen next . access to live event what step she be take to help ensure that disabled people have equal access to live event . it be crucial that access to live event be open to disabled people . we be support Arts Council England and its partner to develop the All in scheme , which should significantly improve accessibility in that area . last summer I be at the Paralympics , where I be horrified to hear from young people with disability about their lack of access to sport in particular . this government be take every action and use every lever at our disposal to change that . in my Shipley constituency , the highly value Bingley art centre have make great stride in improve accessibility for disabled people . however , with 78 % of art centre behind schedule on essential building maintenance , it be clear that more investment be need . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s announcement of the all in fund ; can she assure I that local theatre such as Bingley art centre will benefit from that investment to help they continue to make the art inclusive ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise this matter , and I sincerely thank she for bring it to the House ; it be not something we talk about enough . the creative industry sector plan contain £ 150 million - worth of funding for the creative place growth fund . much of that funding be be devolve to local area , and I will ensure that my colleague and I work closely with my hon . friend and with local leader , particularly mayor of combined authority , to ensure that as we roll out that funding , it be accessible to everybody . charity : National Insurance Contributions what recent assessment she have make of the potential impact of change to employer national insurance contribution on charity . the Government highly value the charity sector and its positive contribution . however , we have have to take a number of difficult decision on tax , welfare and spending to fix the public finance , fund public service and restore economic stability . the National Council for Voluntary Organisations put the cost at £ 1 . 4 billion . that be right , isn ' t it ? I reiterate that we really value the charity sector , but we have have to make some very difficult decision . sport govern body : Supreme Court Judgment what discussion she have have with sport govern body on ensure that they be compliant with the Supreme Court judgment in the case of for woman Scotland the Scottish Ministers . we have discuss the ruling with Sport England and UK Sport . it obviously have profound implication for sport as a whole , and those organisation be currently consider the implication for their own guidance . we be keen to support they in that , but my hon . friend will know that national governing body set their own policy for who can participate in domestic competition . More than two month after the Supreme Court clarify the law , there remain a long list of sporting body that be deny fairness to woman and girl , include Parkrun and , remarkably , sport such as weightlifting and wrestling — the mind boggle . do my right hon . friend agree that there be no need to wait for further guidance and that these body should take the advice of the Prime Minister and get on with it ? as I say to my hon . friend a moment ago , we have be work closely with sporting body to support they as they implement the recent judgment by the Supreme Court . as a government , we have always be clear that , when it come to woman ' s sport , biology matter and our sporting body need to come up with policy that protect fairness and safety , while rightly ensure that everyone have the opportunity to participate in sport in some capacity . access to Sport for young People : Dormant Assets Funding what assessment she have make of the potential impact of dormant asset fund on access to sport for young people in Bournemouth . the Government recently publish their first ever dormant asset strategy , set out how £ 440 million will be distribute in England . some £ 132 . 5 million will increase disadvantaged young people ' s access to enrichment opportunity in the art , culture , sport and wide youth service . the Henry Brown centre in West Howe , in my Bournemouth West constituency , run a range of activity for the community , include the Changes be make boxing club , which provide positive sport activity for local young people and aim to raise awareness about the danger of knife crime . like many community centre and club , it would like to expand but struggle to find the fund to do so . will the Minister tell I how CAM and the Henry Brown centre can access the dormant asset fund to expand the amazing work that they be do in the local area ? the Government will work with the National Lottery Community Fund to decide on the specific programme , and we will outline how that funding will be allocate shortly . I pay tribute to the organisation in my hon . friend ' s constituency for their work and activity , and I would happily meet she to discuss the issue far . Creative Industries Sector Plan what recent progress her Department have make on deliver the creative industry sector plan . the UK be a creative superpower and we be determined to take off the brake that have be on for far too long . our creative industry sector plan be the start of a 10 - year journey that will firmly establish the UK as the leader in this , and we be work with creative business , big and small , in every part of the country to implement and build on this amazing ambition . thank to a Labour council , mayor and Government work together , digger be now in the ground at the Crown Works site in my constituency , prepare it for transformation into film studio . the selection of a private sector partner be now start , so can the Secretary of State say how the Government ' s industrial strategy for the creative industry , which specifically mention this project , will ensure that the scheme be deliver , while also support the wide screen industry cluster in north - east England ? anyone who have ever visit Sunderland will know why the film industry be base there and why it be thrive there . we be determined to support that . we be work with Sunderland city council and the North East mayoral combine authority . they be confident that a private investor will be secure to support Crown Works film studio . I thank my hon . friend for the incredible work that he be do to support the project , bring great job and growth to north - east England , and help our amazing film industry thrive . last week , I spend time at the Box museum in Plymouth , before head to Plympton in my constituency for the unveiling of a blue plaque to honour the life of Sir Charles Lock Eastlake , who be the first director of the National Gallery and chair of the commission to procure art for the new Palace of Westminster . one question that be raise be about tax incentive for philanthropic giving to museum and art gallery . I note the tax relief mention in the creative industry sector plan , so will the Secretary of State tell I if that will address the question raise with I by the sector last week ? we be work on a plan to bring forward more philanthropy in the UK , as well as social impact invest . we think there be enormous untapped potential , and we be look at all aspect of that . we will bring more detail to the House shortly . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . this government be bet big on the creative industry . we have put they at the heart of our industrial strategy , with a sector plan back by £ 380 million of investment that will boost regional growth , stimulate private investment and create thousand more high - quality job . talent be everywhere , but opportunity be not , and this Government have waste no time in turn that around . Scarborough athletic football club be proudly 100 % fan own . recently , the home ground that it rent from North Yorkshire council be declare unfit to play on due to botch astroturf installation . the club face significant financial loss now that they need to play match at another ground . will the Minister meet I to discuss what support be available to secure the future of this beloved club , which be at the heart of our community ? I thank my hon . friend for her work champion such an amazing local club , and we be pleased to support she in that endeavour . I encourage she to explore the support available via the premier league stadium fund deliver by the Football Foundation . the Government be pleased to be support grassroots club with £ 98 million of funding for the multi - sport grassroot facility programme through the next financial year , which will build new facility and upgrade facility . if she want to get in touch with I directly , we will work together to ensure that that benefit Scarborough , like every other part of the country . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I associate myself with the tribute to Diogo Jota . I understand that his brother be also kill in the accident , and my heart go out to their family . since the Secretary of State ' s statement on Glastonbury on Monday , it have come to light that the act in question have spout equally vile rhetoric at another concert just a few week ago . give that the BBC be seemingly able to pull live broadcast when thing go wrong at football match , for example , it be extraordinary that it do not happen on that occasion . will the Secretary of State update the House on the discussion she have have with the BBC ? why do the same thing not happen on this occasion ? what due diligence do it carry out about the act that be perform ? give that we be still wait for a response on the previous Hamas documentary , be she satisfied with the conversation she have have and the urgency with which the organisation be act ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for raise that matter , and I agree with he . the answer be that I be not satisfied with the response I have have . I can update the House , as I promise to do on Monday , that I have receive a reply to the very many question raise by colleague from all part of the House , and I be not satisfied with it . I have go back to the BBC leadership to ask for further information , in particular — as the right hon . Gentleman mention — about the failure to pull the live feed , the due diligence that be do prior to decide to screen that act and the level of senior oversight that take place in the BBC during the Glastonbury weekend . I think that the BBC leadership have hear and will hear the strength of feeling in this House on this issue , and I expect further answer to be forthcoming imminently . I thank the Secretary of State for that answer . I have to say that I be as disappointed as she be that the BBC have not be able to come back with even basic fact . there be hundred of BBC staff there , and it be not acceptable that it be unable to identify who ultimately have the final decision on whether to broadcast . the chairman need to inform she , as a matter of urgency , who that be and what action they be go to take . while I absolutely understand the independence of the BBC , just as artist can not hide behind artistic expression for vile commentary , the BBC can not hide behind independence from accountability . I hope the Secretary of State know that she have the full support of the opposition as she push it for great clarity . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for that and for make the very important distinction between independence and accountability . we hear in this House , and I be able to bring to the House , the absolutely shocking story of the impact that this issue have have on the jewish community in this country . give the seriousness of what happen , I expect there to be accountability at the high level . while it could be say that the conservative party could fit into a child ' s paddle pool , we in Isle of Wight West take swimming — as well as our issue with ferry — very seriously . I think hon . member would like that one . West Wight sport and community centre be an excellent community - run facility that need to replace its swimming pool after 50 year . will the Minister meet I to discuss how it might access grant to do so ? my hon . friend be a good champion for his constituency . the Government recognise that sport facility , include swimming facility , be incredibly important , and I would be delighted to meet he to discuss it far . my constituency be the home of Hampshire Cricket . last Thursday , I visit Fair Oak cricket club , which have a fantastic new pavilion and a thriving community of player , coach and volunteer who be passionate about grow the game . in April 2024 , the previous Government announce a £ 35 million investment in grassroots cricket facility and widen access to the sport within state school . can the Minister confirm when the Government plan to release that funding to ensure that girl and boy in all part of Eastleigh and across the country have the opportunity to become the next Lauren Bell or Joe Root ? I look forward to attend the cricket at Edgbaston later today , and I know it be hugely important to community up and down the country . I would be delighted to meet the hon . member to discuss her question in more detail . will the Minister join I in praise all the staff past and present , the council ' s chief officer for leisure and wellbeing , Tom Kittendorf , and the portfolio holder , Councillor Maggie O ' Rourke , on the recent 25th anniversary of the Rugby art gallery and museum ? I be glad to attend and pay tribute to staff for the huge contribution they make to the three c ' s : creativity , culture and community . do my right hon . friend agree that municipally run institution such as that be gem shine bright in our town , and that this Government will do all they can to empower they ? I absolutely share my hon . friend ' s commitment to municipal facility , which be often the only access that people have to amazing sport , art , culture , museum and gallery . like he , this Government be determined to do everything we can to support they . I recently visit the Cornermen project in my Oxfordshire constituency . base at South Moreton boxing club , it provide professional mental health support for man in a sporting environment . do the Minister agree that sport and leisure can open the door to mental health provision ? what more can the Government do to nurture organisation such as the Cornermen ? recently , I be pleased to host a roundtable with many sport club from different sport , include football and rugby league . I be delighted to have Kris Radlinski there from Wigan Warriors — the great rugby league club in the history of the game — to talk in particular about the mental health crisis face young man . it be not lose on we as a Government that sport , art , and all the sector we be responsible for often play a major role in help to support people with what be become a crisis for young people . I be work very closely with my right hon . friend the Health Secretary to develop those plan far . morecambe football club be in crisis . the current owner be delay a sale , despite we already have a buyer ready and approve by the English Football League . the staff have only be pay one third of their wage , and the board have be dismiss without proper process . can the Minister outline how the Government be work to prevent other town like Morecambe from suffer in this way ? I be really grateful to my hon . friend . she have not just raise this issue in the House ; she have raise it with I and with the Under - Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley South ( Stephanie Peacock ) as well , and we be determined to support she . I have be through this appalling experience with my own club , Wigan Athletic , and we be determined to make sure that nobody have to go through it ever again . the Under - Secretary of State have be work very hard with member of this House to pass the Football Governance Bill , to ensure that we rectify this situation and prevent it from happen elsewhere , but in the particular case of my hon . friend ' s club , I be extremely keen to see a sale as soon as possible . the charity sector include hospice , such as Acorns child ' s hospice in Walsall . hospice be be hit by the Government ' s damage rise in employer national insurance , which be mention in an early question . give that in his opening remark , the Minister for Creative Industries , Arts and Tourism praise the Chancellor for his success in secure funding for his Department , will he speak with the Chancellor and urge she to do all she can to reinstate long - term funding for our hospice sector ? the hospice sector be not specifically my responsibility , but of course I value hospice . to go back to the early point about the state of the finance in the Department for Culture , Media and Sport , this be the first Secretary of State who have manage to get £ 3 billion for investment in capital funding . that be go to be vital for many of our artistic and sporting institution in this country , and I think she deserve praise . House of Commons Commission the hon . member for Blaenau Gwent and Rhymney , represent the House of Commons Commission , be ask — apprentice what step the Commission be take to increase the number of apprentice in the House of Commons . apprenticeship help we to build a more skilled and adaptable workforce . the House of Commons Commission be increase the number of apprentice by participate in National Apprenticeship Week and attend career fair . additionally , the administration support the Speaker ' s Apprenticeship Academy ; we be currently recruit a second cohort to that academy , and we be also recruit 12 security officer apprentice . Adil Rashid be a Speaker ' s apprentice in my Administration Committee team . he have a strong work ethic and be a good team player , and I be grateful for his support . I be grateful to the hon . member for that answer . everyone should have the potential to work in Parliament , not just those who live in and around London , so can he confirm how many apprentice have be recruit since the introduction of the UK Parliament ' s apprenticeship scheme , and in particular how many be recruit from Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland ? we currently have 32 apprentice , and another 19 will be recruit this year . there have be approximately 90 since 2017 . Parliament recruit apprentice under the English apprenticeship scheme . Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland each have their own programme and funding structure . Church Commissioners the hon . member for Battersea , represent the Church Commissioners , be ask — People on Low Incomes in Rural Communities what step the Church of England be take to support people on low income in rural community . our most recent figure show that the Church of England be involve in more than 31 , 000 community project across the country , include in my hon . friend ' s constituency of Harlow . in addition , fund for church in the low income community be set to increase from £ 91 million in the past three year to £ 133 . 5 million . in the local authority of Harlow , 30 % of child be live in poverty , accord to research by Loughborough University and the end Child Poverty coalition . poverty also exist in rural area of my constituency , such as Sheering and nazeing . many family turn to their local place of worship for support . luckily , Harlow have several place of worship of different faith and denomination offer help . can my hon . friend say a little more about what the Church be do in the area to support family struggle with the cost of living ? my hon . friend be a good representative for the people of Harlow . in his constituency , St Mary Magdalene church run a vibrant Sunday school and mother ' union , with lot of event and activity for all the community . St Stephen ' s church run a parent and toddler group while also support local care home . St Paul ' s and St Mary ' s church partner with the local food bank and run a Bounty club with the Michael Roberts Charitable Trust , offer good , healthy food at a low cost . with the closure of many church in rural community in England and in Scotland , too , be the commissioner concern that people live in rural area , particularly those on low income , might not be able to access worship within easy reach of their own community ? the right hon . Gentleman ask an important question . the Church value all its rural community , and that be why we have so many different project to ensure that place of worship not only exist , but operate as a community hub to ensure that people in those local area have place to go , whether that be for worship , a local food bank , or a mother and baby group . list place of Worship Grant Scheme what assessment the Church Commissioners have make of the potential impact of the £ 25 , 000 cap in the list place of worship grant scheme on level of church repair . what step the Church plan to take to support list place of worship with repair and renovation after the conclusion of the list place of worship grant scheme . what assessment the Church Commissioners have make of the potential impact of the £ 25 , 000 cap in the list place of worship grant scheme on level of church repair . the Church estimate that around 260 church building will be impact by the change to the list place of worship grant scheme . some 206 of those have multi - year project already under way that will need to find further funding . I recently meet representative from church that have be impact with the Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley South ( Stephanie Peacock ) , so that they could share their concern with she . I hope , follow the spending review settlement , that the Department for Culture , Media and Sport will clarify the support that church will get and that will be available to they go forward . in North East Derbyshire , we be proud to have many historic , beautiful church that reflect the many broad tradition within christian faith in this country . can my hon . friend please provide clarity on the future of the list place of worship scheme so that we can continue to treasure these place for many generation to come ? as I have highlight , we value our church and our list place of worship , and it be important that the Government hear these call and provide some clarity and certainty about the future of the scheme . the Church Commissioners have fund many project , provide around £ 9 million of grant for repair to church , and church building support officer be also in place to advise on management , how repair can be carry out and the essential development of these place of worship . I hear my hon . friend , and I invite she to lobby the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport to give we some certainty about the scheme . I have be visit place of worship in my constituency , include St Probus and St Grace church , with the tall church tower in Cornwall , and St Gerrans church , with its distinctive tower and spire . both need extensive and expensive work to keep they watertight , so all that good work with food bank , coffee morning and warm hub that go on there can continue to happen . they be both concerned about the new annual cap , as they have cost their scheme , and the potential ending of the list place of worship grant scheme next year . what alternative support will be available to they and other now that the scheme be reduce and potentially end ? of course , I will be lobby DCMS , too . I commend the work of the church in my hon . friend ' s constituency . she highlight St Probus and St Grace church , which be found in 930 ad . I understand that it be a truly wonderful building and establishment , but it need a new roof , and the fundraising be under way to try to ensure that it get the funding . I highlight early the Church Commissioners ' building emission fund . this issue have be raise every time I stand here and respond to question on behalf of the Church . it be vital that the list place of worship grant scheme continue and that the Government provide clarity on the future of the scheme , so that all the wonderful list place of worship in all our constituency have certainty go forward . the change to the grant scheme , and the uncertainty over its future , present significant challenge for historic church in need of maintenance , as my hon . friend have just set out so well . these include the grade I list St Nicholas church in Ockendon , in my constituency of Thurrock , which , as the warden tell I this week , carry a significant burden in repair work due to its age . can my hon . friend assist I to understand what support be available for parish face these challenge to ensure that they continue to thrive at the heart of community , as they have do through hundred of year of history ? I will be lobby DCMS as well . as I highlight , there be other fund , and I will write to my hon . friend to set out some additional support that might be available . I understand that work at St Nicholas church will cost around £ 200 , 000 , which be a great deal of money . I be very pleased to hear that she , too , will be lobby the Department for Culture , Media and Sport for certainty about the list place of worship grant scheme . I really think I have do my job in call for that today . I thank the hon . Lady for her answer . like other member , I will ask the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport whether there will be more money for church , give that the Minister for Creative Industries , Arts and Tourism say that funding be now available . church be more than just building for people in rural community ; they be hub for worship and social engagement . let we be honest about the £ 25 , 000 cap : building material cost maybe 30 % to 50 % more than they do a year ago , which mean that the grant do not go very far . the heritage lottery fund give some money , but what can be do to work with other organisation to ensure that money can come from other group that may be anxious and willing ? I have a church in my constituency that get a six - figure sum , which give the House an idea of what money can be gain through co - operation and partnership . the hon . Gentleman rightly highlight that there be other way to acquire funding , such as through the heritage lottery and so forth . I will certainly write to he if there be specific place that he be concerned about . although the grant scheme be for the Church of England , I be certain that there be other support for church , and I can certainly put he in touch with the relevant people , if that be helpful . community Cohesion what step the Church of England be take to support community cohesion in its parish . what step the Church of England be take to support community cohesion in its parish . through the parish system , the Church of England have a presence in every community . long - term relationship be vital for build trust and understanding in all our community , and the Church have work closely with faith organisation , local authority , the police and so forth — all in aid of build well relation . I would like to take this opportunity to commend the contribution of the church in my constituency , from all saint in Datchworth , which be currently celebrate 850 year of service , to St Mary ' s in Aston , where the Rev . canon Jenny Gray have recently retire . however , another church , St Andrew & St George in the centre of Stevenage , be face the ongoing problem of theft of copper from its roof — an expensive loss to the church . what can be do to safeguard our church from such antisocial and criminal behaviour ? I thank my hon . friend for ask two really important question . I congratulate the Rev . canon Jenny Gray on her retirement . her exemplary service to the community be recognise by the diocese in 2023 , when she be make an honorary canon of the cathedral . on metal theft , my hon . friend be absolutely right that it be criminal and antisocial , and it cause real harm . the Church have be do a lot of work on this since 2013 , and I be happy to write to he to set out that work in more detail . I thank my hon . friend for the work she be do represent the Church Commissioners . the community of Hyndburn be vibrant and rich in its diversity , and I be proud to see how we respond to the awful riot last summer . what conversation have she have with the Church Commissioners on how the Church can continue to strengthen its work on integration and work with the Government as they develop a community cohesion strategy follow the immigration White Paper ? I pay tribute to the social cohesion work happen in my hon . friend ' s constituency . I would just highlight that bishop and church official have be in discussion with the Minister for Faith in the other place on community cohesion issue . the Church do write to the Prime Minister follow the publication of the White Paper to call for a more holistic integration strategy , and this have also be raise in meeting . I commend all our church and faith organisation that come together during the riot last summer , and demonstrate how we can work collaboratively across all our community . a really positive example of community cohesion in action be the Rewild the Church project , with the Lewes Climate Hub and church in Lewes join force to tackle biodiversity loss and bring people together through their parish . they be work towards the inspire goal of rewilde 30 % of church - own land by 2030 . will the Second Church Estates Commissioner join I in congratulate they on this important work , and support this ambition for the Church of England to lead by example in restore nature and support local community to come together in do so ? I congratulate the hon . member and those in his constituency on the work take place on that really important issue . christian in the occupied palestinian Territories what support the Church of England be provide to Christians in the occupied Palestinian Territories . we continue to see the christian community attack by israeli soldier and settler , as happen as recently as last week . anglican aid agency be provide financial assistance to Church institution , include the Princess Basma Centre in East Jerusalem , St Luke ' s hospital in Nablus and the Arab Evangelical Episcopal school in Ramallah . this work be ongoing , and there be a global appeal for support for these aid agency . the UK Government have begin to issue visa for critically injured and sick Gazan child in need of specialist expert medical treatment , but only a handful of child have be grant visa and bring to the UK for urgent treatment . what support can the Church provide to not just christian child , but all child in the occupied Palestinian Territories in desperate need of medical evacuation ? I thank my hon . friend for his important question . there be no safe space for child in Gaza , where we know that over 56 , 000 people have lose their life , include more than 17 , 000 child . the Church have rightly condemn the attack on hospital and civilian , but we can certainly do more and the Church must do more . the Church must continue to be a voice for the voiceless , and Gazan child be the voiceless . I encourage the Government to enable medical evacuation , heed call for the creation of a Gaza family visa scheme and take concrete step to ensure Israel allow vital medical aid into Gaza . I call the Father of the House . the christian town of Taybeh be the same town as Ephraim in John ' s gospel where Jesus go before his passion . this town be enter a new passion : there be a violent attack by extremist israeli settler on the town on 26 June . there be a continue pattern of crop be destroy and outpost be set up , and it be happen all over the west bank . this be outrageous racial cleansing , deliberately design to prevent a two - state solution and to drive out the people who have tend their crop there for 2 , 000 year . will the Church of England call out this outrage every day of the week in an attempt to put some sort of pressure on the israeli Government ? I thank the Father of the House for his question . he be absolutely right : the attack that take place in Taybeh last week be outrageous and should not have be allow to happen . if we be all go to be the hand and foot of Jesus , we have to speak out when we see such atrocity happen . we must be a voice for the voiceless . I hear he when he say that the Church must speak out every day against what be happen in Gaza , and indeed across the whole occupy territory . Project Spire what statutory power the Church plan to use to facilitate Project Spire . I thank the right hon . member for his question and draw his attention to a write response I give on 22 April . it be the Church ' s intention , subject to the approval of the trustee , for the Church Commissioners to make an application to the Charity Commission to authorise an ex gratia payment under section 106 of the Charities Act 2011 on the basis of moral obligation . a number of member this morning have lobby for expenditure to repair their church , and the hon . Lady have tell they to lobby the Government — the Department for Culture , Media and Sport — for that money . at the same time , the Church have already spend £ 5 million on this project , with the aspiration of take it to £ 1 billion , when the Charity Commission have yet to deliver its verdict on whether that be within the charitable objective allowable . how have that be allow to happen ? these be two separate issue . what be go on in relation to funding for Project Spire be totally separate to any other funding — the list place of worship grant scheme be a separate scheme . the building for mission fund that support our church be totally separate . Al - Ahli Hospital what information the Church hold on the operational situation of the Anglican al - Ahli hospital in Gaza . the israeli attack on patient and medic at hospital be abhorrent , as I have say on many occasion . the Church be in close contact with the diocese of Jerusalem , which oversee the al - Ahli hospital in Gaza . the challenge of operate while under attack by Israel , and with the hospital and church building have be strike directly on eight separate occasion , mean that the hospital be in chaos . it will soon run out of fuel and medical supply . I raise the al - Ahli hospital at the end of last year , when it suffer quite a lot of damage . the situation have deteriorate rapidly since then . I understand that the hospital , as my hon . friend outline , have suffer further damage , include the loss of its emergency room . give it be one of the few function hospital leave in Gaza , do my hon . friend agree that it be vital that it stay open ? give it be one of the old hospital , operate for almost 140 year , its loss would be an absolutely damn indictment of the disregard for the medical facility , and for the health and life of the palestinian people . my hon . friend be absolutely right . the diocese of Jerusalem have inform we that the hospital continue to provide critical medical service — but only just . food , fuel and medical supply be critically low due to Israel prevent aid from get into Gaza . the Church Commissioners repeat the diocese ' s urgent call for a renew ceasefire , and the establishment of safe and sustain humanitarian corridor . I urge the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to pressure Israel to allow in fuel and vital medical supply . poverty what step the Church of England be take to help to tackle poverty . church and all our faith community make a powerful difference in the life of all our constituent every single day , and Church of England parish provide more than 31 , 000 social action project in church school and educate million of child each day . parish initiative include food bank , credit union , warm space , school club and other form of family support . for too long , charity , faith group and church such as my own , St Bede ' s , have be support people struggle to get by . do my hon . friend agree that our child poverty taskforce need to seriously consider scrap the awful two - child benefit cap , because rely on charity to lift child out of poverty be simply unsustainable ? my hon . friend make an important point . everyone have a responsibility to tackle child poverty , and we should all commend and thank the Church for the role it have play in this space . I know that the Bishop of Derby host Baroness Sherlock , the child poverty unit and colleague for a roundtable , where many issue be discuss . church across the country be do amazing work tackle poverty , but they could be do more . many of my constituent will be surprised that the Church Commissioners have already spend £ 5 million on Project Spire when it be not within their charitable objective , and that they plan to spend £ 100 million when the Charity Commission have not sign that off . why be the Church Commissioners do something that be not within their charitable objective ? no decision have be take on that . when the board of governor and the Church of Commissioners make that decision , they will follow the right process to do so . business of the House will the Leader of the House give the House the forthcoming business ? the business for the week commence 7 July be as follow : Monday 7 July — Second reading of the Pension Schemes Bill . Tuesday 8 July — remain stage of the Football Governance Bill [ Lords ] . Wednesday 9 July — Committee of the whole House and remain stage of the Universal Credit and Personal Independence Payment Bill . Thursday 10 July — general debate on the attainment and engagement of boy in education , follow by general debate on child ' s health . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 11 July — private member ' Bills . the provisional business for the week commence 14 July will include : Monday 14 July — Committee of the whole House and remain stage of the Deprivation of Citizenship Orders ( effect during Appeal ) Bill , follow which the Chairman of Ways and Means be expect to name opposed private business for consideration . Tuesday 15 July — opposition day ( 9th allot day ) . debate on a motion in the name of the official Opposition . subject to be announce . I be sure the Leader of the House and all member will want to join I in recognise this year as the 81st anniversary of the announcement by the Government of a national health service , by Sir Henry Willink in 1944 . Most of we wish to celebrate an anniversary would probably have a bit of a party — maybe get a few friend round , order in some pizza and put up decoration . only the Labour party would seek to celebrate its first year in office with the kind of Charlie Foxtrot multidimensional legislative omnishamble that we have see in the past few day . give their three massive reverse ferret of recent week , I must say I have think that the Government have perfect the art of the u - turn . after all , they have have u - turn on winter fuel payment and the two - child benefit cap — each , in its own way , a little masterpiece of slow - motion dithering and indecision . but then , the other day , the Government up their game significantly by execute a comprehensive 180 ° u - turn on their decision to hold a statutory inquiry into groom gang , have repeatedly say that it be not necessary . brilliantly , the Prime Minister manage to u - turn at the same time on his own speech about the UK be an island of stranger . I naively believe that that be the state of the art — the Government have maxe out on U - turn and nobody could be more bewilderingly incompetent than that . how wrong I be . on Tuesday , we see something that be almost unheard of in the 750 year of our Parliament — a Minister pull out his chainsaw and disembowel his own Government ' s flagship welfare Bill in mid - air on live television from the Dispatch Box . really , Mr Speaker , that outstrip my poor power of description . we need the pen of a Shakespeare or a Thackeray to do it justice ; it be the quintessence of cock - up . but , actually , Mr Speaker , this past week have be much bad even than that . just as Nick Clegg be define by his u - turn on student fee , so the Prime Minister will be define by this moment : a new and supposedly reform Government with an enormous majority have be unable not to cut , but to reduce the rate of increase in public spending on benefit , let alone make any serious actual reform to protect people . there have be a remarkable complacency about this Government and this past week have show it up . they regard disagreement as something to be ignore or crush : they do not answer question at the Dispatch Box ; they obfuscate on write question ; they try to ignore the opposition ; they dismiss the House of Lords ; and they spurn their own Back Benchers . loyal Labour mps , concerned about disabled people , have be try to get a hearing on this issue for month , only to be repeatedly reject , and this have be the result . three thing follow from it . first , there be the immediate consequence . it will be next to impossible now for the Government to achieve meaningful reform of the welfare system . they have show that they have no ability to make saving . taxis will go up while the economy continue to stall . little wonder the gilt market explode during Prime Minister ' s question yesterday . secondly , the Prime Minister have open the door to future rebellion . indeed , he have go far than that ; he have write the playbook for they . Doubtless , he will have a reshuffle sometime soon . loyal dissenter will be punish , the talented cast out , and Select Committee Chairs buy off , but that will make no difference . there will be other — the Select Committee Chairs have show that they be a powerful new force in Labour politic . finally , the Prime Minister have massively damage his own reputation . he have endlessly harp on about the need for professional competence and moral seriousness , but this have be a year in government that start with a host of undisclosed personal gift receive and have end with utter political humiliation . he have show that he be in office , but not in power . what be the point of this Government ? no one know , not even the Prime Minister . I start by send all our condolence to the friend and family of Liverpool football club star , Diogo Jota , follow the shocking news of his and his brother ' s death in a tragic car accident . it come only two week after his wedding and after win last season ' s premier league . I be sure the thought of the whole House be with his family , friend , Liverpool teammate and former wolf teammate . I also send my good wish to the Lionesses at the start of the Euros . tomorrow be Action Mesothelioma Day . I commend all the campaigner who continue to fight for justice for those who have die or be ill as a result of asbestos cancer . my dear friend and former colleague , Tony Lloyd and Paul Goggins , sadly no long with we , be real champion of this cause and I pay tribute to they . may I take this opportunity , Mr Speaker — I would rarely do this — to put on record how proud I be of my friend , the first female Chancellor , who have be do a very difficult and formidable job . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] quite honestly , she have more class than most Opposition member — include , I be sure , some on the Front Bench . as the shadow Leader of the House have ask I to do so , may I update the House on the universal credit Bill , as it will soon be rename ? I completely acknowledge that how this business be manage be not the way that it should have be . the process do not live up to the standard to which I and the Government hold ourselves . however , as I say last week , we value the contribution of member , especially those with particular experience of and interest in these issue . critical to any good legislation be that it reflect parliamentary opinion , and I believe the Bill now do that . I think it be actually a good thing that we be prepared to listen and change , but member should rest assure that we will take stock and reflect on how we can do thing well go forward . the Bill as amend , and the timms review alongside it , now reflect the reform and safeguard that the House want to see , and we will consider its remain stage next week . the Bill ' s title will become the Universal Credit Bill , as it will be narrow in scope . it will focus on end the perverse incentive in universal credit , protect the income of those currently in receipt of the universal credit health element and end the reassessment of those with the most severe condition , and clause 5 relate to personal independence payment will be delete . any future change to PIP will come only follow the timms review , co - produce with disabled people and the body that represent they . we can all agree that the welfare system need reform and need to be sustainable . the Conservatives should quite frankly be ashamed of their legacy , which need address . it be a legacy of one in 10 working - age people on sickness or disability benefit ; a legacy of a generation of young people with no mental health support and too few opportunity ; a legacy of over 7 million people on NHS waiting list , many unable to work ; a legacy of stagnant growth and no plan for job creation . it be this Government who be tackle those long - term challenge . the shadow Leader of the House want to talk about the Government ' s anniversary . I be really happy to talk about our anniversary , because I be proud of our first year in office : our 10 - year NHS plan come out today , and waiting list come down month on month ; a new , ambitious industrial strategy , create job opportunity around the country ; mental health support and the skill revolution ; british job for british worker , with decent pay and condition ; the big investment in affordable and social housing in 50 year ; finally clear up our river and sea ; bring the railway into public ownership ; create GB Energy and get bill down ; half a million more child get free school meal every day , and new free breakfast club ; wage go up , and the big ever wage rise for the lowest - pay worker . that be the change that people vote for , and that be the change that we be bring in . tomorrow be another anniversary — one that the Tories do not want to talk about : their bad ever election defeat . they be utterly reject , and one year on , it have get no well for they — it be just get bad and bad . they have not learn , they have not reflect , they have not apologise . the shadow Leader of the House talk about u - turn , but no one know more about change position and change direction than the Conservatives . they change Prime Ministers three time in three month ! they go from austerity one month to spaffe money up the wall the next . one moment it be level - up , and the next it be funnel money into the shire — from Brexit opportunity to Brexit disaster . one day they have an industrial strategy , the next they rip it up . they be for net zero , then against it . they could not even cancel hs2 properly . in 14 year they have have more position than the Kama Sutra . it be no wonder they be completely knackere . my constituency have a fantastic group of volunteer and sponsor for Congleton Pride , but they have have to show extraordinary resilience after multiple attack on their banner for Pride month and our major Pride event . I know that the Leader of the House will want to thank all the volunteer and sponsor who have provide new banner and put more banner in more location . I thank very much the volunteer for persevere and the police for their involvement in this matter , and I thank the member of the community who support Pride . I encourage as many people as possible to come to the Pride event in Congleton town centre on Saturday 19 July from 10 am . please can we have a debate in Government time about how we can support the LGBTQ + community ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that important matter . I be really sorry to hear that banner relate to the Congleton Pride have be vandalise in such a way ; that be completely unacceptable . I be sure that on 19 July the whole community will want to come out and support the LGBT community in Congleton , because that be exactly what they should be do . as she know , the Government be commit to support the community and to take step to tackle homophobic hate crime . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . several of my Chelmsford constituent have contact I about the lack of local NHS dentistry service . one constituent tell I an all too familiar story : waiting list for NHS patient be either too long or closed , so he have have to rely on private dentistry for routine check - up . now , he can not afford crucial dental care because it would cost hundred of pound that he do not have . that be a concern not only for patient but for dentist . one Chelmsford dentist recently write to I detail the need for the Government to urgently fix the fail contract that he work under , to ensure that provider be fund to carry out NHS service and take on more patient . as with all healthcare , we know that the long it take to treat a problem , the more serious and expensive it can become . the Minister for Care have say that critical negotiation be take place between the Department of Health and the Treasury , so will the Leader of the House encourage her Treasury colleague to prioritise that , to allow the Department to renegotiate the dental contract as soon as possible , as Liberal Democrats have be call for ? will she also ensure that a statement be make to the House to provide an update on the progress of the renegotiation ? I thank the hon . member for raise that important matter . I be sure that as constituency mp we all know how important it be for people to have access to NHS dental care and dental appointment . she be right to highlight how many dental desert there still be ; that be the legacy that we have inherit . we be commit to provide more NHS dentist appointment . that be a key part of our NHS 10 - year plan , which the Secretary of State will soon be set out . that do mean look at issue relate to the contract and how that care be provide . I will ensure that in addition to the statement be give today , the House be keep fully update on these matter . last week at a council meeting , when medical dispensation be be seek for Labour councillor Carol Hyatt in the Merry Hill ward of my constituency so that she could undergo cancer treatment , a Reform UK councillor say that be not fair on taxpayer . will the Leader of the House first please join I in wish Councillor Hyatt , who be an excellent councillor for her ward , a speedy recovery ? secondly , consider that one in two of we will be diagnose with cancer at some point in our life , will she please reassure the House that the Government will always support cancer sufferer at work ? I be really sorry to hear of that ; that be totally unacceptable . I join my hon . friend completely in wish Carol Hyatt a speedy recovery . I hope that she get all the support she need . it be vital that we support people who have get cancer with all their work and care need , and that be what the Government be all about . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . unfortunately , the Leader of the House be not able to announce the business beyond Tuesday of the week after next , so I can not announce what the business in the Chamber will be on Thursday 17 July . indeed , she also do not announce what will happen in the final week before recess , and we be due to have the Sir David Amess summer pre - recess Adjournment debate on one of those day . it would be helpful to have an update on when we will have that debate . in addition , we will have this business in Westminster Hall : next week , on Tuesday 8 July there will be a debate on alcohol and cancer , which be quite appropriate give the comment make by the hon . member for Wolverhampton West ( Warinder Juss ) . on Thursday 10 July there will be a debate on state support for victim of terrorism , follow by a debate on London ' s contribution to the national economy . on Tuesday 15 July , there will be a debate on special educational need and disability provision in the south - east . on Thursday 17 July there will be a debate on the role of freedom of religion or belief in UK foreign policy , follow by a debate on the role of the RAF photographic reconnaissance unit during the second world war . on Tuesday 22 July , there will be a debate on Black Country Day . member who have be here for a while will know that I have be campaign for more than 20 year for Stanmore station in my constituency to receive a lift or some form of step - free access . the good news a little while ago be that Queensbury and Canons Park station be now on the list to have step - free access . I immediately write to the commissioner of Transport for London to say , " what about Stanmore station ? " I have receive a reply this week , which may interest you , Mr Speaker , and other . the definition of step - free access " mean lift , ramp and level surface so you don ' t have to use stair or escalator , and can avoid the step and gap onto our train , bus and boat " . however , the reply go on to say that Stanmore station be classify as have step - free access , despite the fact that it say quite clearly , " ' station entry and exit require a 110 m journey via the station car park , include steep ramp . ' " TfL forget to say that this be the access to the Royal National Orthopaedic hospital in Stanmore and that a Paralympian be unable to get up that slope unaided . I have be in correspondence with the Chair of the Transport Committee , the hon . member for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) , who agree that we need an update definition . the Secretary of State for Transport be a former deputy Mayor of London for transport , so may we have a statement from she on what we will do about ensure that there be proper step - free access and a proper definition of it ? may I thank the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee for announce some of the forthcoming business ? I can assure he that we will be in conversation very soon about the business on the following Thursday and ahead of the recess . I know how important it be to this House and to he as the Chair of the Committee that we have the Sir David Amess pre - summer recess debate , and the whole House would expect that we have that at the appropriate moment . hopefully , we can have positive conversation about that come up . the hon . member be right to raise issue about step - free access — I have hear he do that many time before — particularly at Stanmore station and other in his constituency . he will know that those station be a matter for TfL , but Ministers talk to TfL about such matter on an ongoing basis . I can assure he that the Secretary of State for Transport be personally very committed to ensure that all our station become step - free , with access to all eventually . it be a big job , because over half the station across the country do not currently have that . it be important not just for those with disability , but for those with buggy and young child , those who carry lot of luggage and all sort of other people to ensure that our transport network be truly accessible . to help everybody , let I say that my intention be to call everyone , so let we help each other by speed through . as a good example , I call Andy MacNae . every day in my constituency , we be face with poorly organise and overrun street work clog up our road . a lane rental scheme through which company pay for the time the work take would reduce such delay on our busy road . however , I remain frustrated that , so far , Lancashire county council have refuse to introduce one . I welcome the announcement last year by the Secretary of State for Transport that the authority for lane rental scheme would be devolve to regional mayor . however , it be notably absent from the English Devolution White Paper , so I be concerned that it may fall by the wayside . will the Leader of the House agree to a debate in Government time on this important subject ? my hon . friend be always a good candidate to call early , because he ask good question about his constituency . he be absolutely right that poorly manage roadwork be a blight on our community ; I hear about that many time in these session . we be give local area more power in that regard and be double fine and apply charge of up to £ 10 , 000 a day for utility work that overrun . he can be assure that the devolution Bill will be come before this House imminently . as I be sure you , Mr Speaker , and the Leader of the House know , the number of child who have be kill in the war on Gaza now run into the many thousand . similar number of child have be mutilate and injure , and a large number of they require specialist medical treatment . as I hope she know , country across the west have respond by bring those child who can not get the treatment that they need in Gaza to their country for treatment . shamefully , the UK have not do so , admit only two child so far . the Home Secretary have inexplicably refuse many application to come here , despite the fact that Project Pure Hope have raise all the money require for the child ' s transport , treatment and maintenance . may we please have a statement , so that mps can understand why the number be so small , why application have be refuse , and what the Government will do to increase the number ? if we can not have a statement , may we at least have a meeting between the relevant Minister and a cross - party delegation of mp to discuss what more can be do to help these child in dire need ? I thank the right hon . member for raise this important issue . as he say , the situation in Gaza — the suffering , the killing , the lack of aid and support — be totally intolerable and unacceptable , and need to be bring to an end . that be what this Government have focus on do in all their effort in the middle east . we once again hold some hope of that ceasefire happen . he raise an important point about child who need hospital care and treatment . I will gladly arrange for a Minister to meet he and a delegation of other to talk about how the UK Government can play our part . we all know that Morecambe and Lunesdale be the most beautiful constituency in the country , and the village of Dent be particularly beautiful . unfortunately , 40 % of home there be now second home or short - term holiday let . can we have a debate in Government time on the impact of short - term let on rural housing availability , and on how regulatory reform might help ? I can confirm that my hon . friend ' s constituency be indeed beautiful , have recently visit with she , as well as for a family holiday . she be absolutely right that the proliferation of holiday let be become a real challenge for tourist hotspot like hers . this government be take step . we have some measure in the Renters ' Rights Bill , but further conversation will be take forward , and I be sure that we will work with she and other on that . on Tuesday , a write statement be publish at 12 noon that announce that three hour later , the afghan citizen resettlement scheme and afghan relocation and assistance policy be to close with immediate effect . that come six week after an assurance that the scheme would continue for the present , so that we could keep the promise make to the people of Afghanistan . can we have a statement in this place , so that we can properly understand the reason for the decision be make so quickly ; how we be communicate with Afghans in hiding , often in third country like Pakistan ; and what will happen to those application still in the system ? I be sorry that the hon . Member do not feel that we be forthcoming enough on that matter , and I will ensure that she get an update on it . we constantly keep these scheme under review , and we have to take into account a whole range of issue when consider whether to close or extend they . those decision and conversation be ongoing , but I will ensure that she get an update . the Bumble Bees rugby union football club , base at the Bradford and Bingley sport club in my constituency , be England ' s first mixed ability contact rugby union . it be found in 2009 by a determined young man with cerebral palsy and learn difficulty . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the Bumble Bees follow their bronze cup win at the international mixed ability rugby tournament in Spain last month ? they play six game in just five day in temperature of up to 35 ° . will she also join I in congratulate Tessa Lightowler , who carry the GB flag at the open Europe down ' s syndrome championship in Prague this week and will be compete in the shotput competition ? perhaps we could make time for a debate to celebrate the contribution of disabled and learn disabled athlete . I absolutely join my hon . friend in congratulate the Bumble Bees rugby club in her constituency , and Tessa Lightowler on carry the GB flag in the recent championship . I be sure the whole House will join in congratulate all our disabled athlete on the contribution they make , and in recognise the importance of their be able to do so . the rigged Government consultation on Islamophobia be oversee by supposedly independent people who have already declare their support for a definition that will kill free speech in this country . an invitation to participate in the consultation be send only to hand - pick organisation , the identity of which the Government refuse to disclose . one of they appear to be the Muslim Council of Britain , which be supposedly subject to a Government policy of non - engagement . which organisation be invite to take part in the consultation ? do they include the Muslim Council of Britain ? may we have an oral statement , to provide some badly need transparency ? it be really important that we tackle Islamophobia in this country . it have be on the rise in recent year , and it be one of the big issue raise with I as a constituency MP . we be consider how good to tackle it and define the issue . as ever , all Government consultation be open and transparent , and all the finding will be publish and bring to the House in due course . may I place on the record my sadness at the loss of Diogo Jota and his brother Andre ? I know it will be feel across my city of Liverpool . my thought and prayer be with his wife and three young child . the six - week statutory maximum for the use of bed - and - breakfast accommodation be be ignore . under the direction of the late Lord Prescott and the previous Labour Government , this rule be enforce , and while I welcome our Government ' s commitment to build social home , we need short to medium - term intervention to address the crisis now . we can not wait for the social home to be build . will the Leader of the House enable a debate to take place in Government time on the 165 , 000 child languish in temporary accommodation ? I thank my hon . friend , a Liverpool MP , for mention the tragic loss of Diogo Jota in that terrible car accident . my hon . friend be a champion of child who live in temporary accommodation and highlight the blight it cast on their life . we absolutely have to tackle the very high number of child live in temporary accommodation , and she be right to raise some of the way we can do that , but I be sure she would agree that the good way be to provide people with a long - term stable home . that be why we be committed to the big social housing programme in a generation . those of we who have be involve in the mishandle transition of post office from directly manage branch to franchise , as have happen in Bexhill , have see how poorly the Post Office have respond to local business that want to run those branch and the mp who support they . will the Leader of the House agree with I , on the record , that it really matter when business like the Post Office pay lip service to mps ' view but ignore we on matter of substance ? I agree absolutely . I have see at first hand as a constituency MP what happen when we lose a Crown post office and have instead a franchised service that do not match the one it be replace . it be vital that mp be able to play their role as champion of their local community and the service they receive , include post office . Post Office Ltd should pay more heed to they . barely a week go by when my email inbox do not swell with people get in touch about one particular issue . whether from Lichfield , Burntwood or the village of Longdon , Streethey , Handsacre , Hill Ridware , Armitage and Abbots Bromley , resident be write to I electronically with complaint about poor service from Royal Mail . they tell I that day go by without delivery , but when I write to Royal Mail , I be tell there be no problem ; delivery be go out six day a week . that just do not chime with the experience of my constituent . staff at Lichfield delivery office tell I that they be not be offer overtime , and as a result , they be fail to meet the universal service obligation , and face pressure to prioritise high - value delivery , like parcel . Royal Mail still tell I that there be no issue . will the Leader of the House arrange for a statement to be make to this House on how the Government be ensure that Royal Mail meet the universal service obligation ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue , which many of my constituent raise with I as well . I recently do an unannounced visit to one of my sort office to meet staff there , and I see at first hand that staff morale be low , and people feel unable to provide the service that they be there to deliver . I encourage he to continue to raise that issue directly with Royal Mail . he have other opportunity to raise it in the House , perhaps with the Select Committee and its Chair , and I be sure it would make a very popular topic for debate . the city of Perth be still recover from a devastating fire , which unfortunately result in loss of life . resident be evacuate , and people be unable to access their property . last week , together with local MSP John Swinney , I host a meeting with affected resident and business , and we find that support from insurance company be nothing other than a lottery . can we have a debate about what people can rightly expect from insurance company in such emergency , and can we look at insurance company be oblige to offer support to all customer who be unable to access their property ? I be really sorry to hear of the incident in the hon . member ' s constituency , and I be sure his constituent be very grateful for the leadership he have show in tackle the after - effect of it . he be right to raise the challenge of insurance company . we need to make sure that there be right of recourse for customer and consumer , and that insurance company be offer the service we need they to offer , because it be vital that people can rely on insurance . I do not expect to bring this up today , but I have recently learn that tomorrow in my constituency of Stafford , Eccleshall and the village , teach assistant will be on strike because they be subject to fire and rehire practice . do the Leader of the House agree that it be imperative that the other place pass the Employment Rights Bill , so that we can end this draconian practice once and for all ? I be really sorry to hear that fire and rehire be still happen across the country , particularly in relation to teaching assistant . that be why I be so pleased and proud that we introduce the Employment Rights Bill . it have go through this House and be now make its way through the House of Lords . I be sure it will receive Royal Assent by the autumn , and we can end fire and rehire for good . I would like to make the Leader of the House aware of the mayhem , disruption and chaos take place in Romford at the Gallows Corner flyover junction of the A12 and A127 , which have be close for refurbishment by Transport for London and the Mayor of London . despite the junction be close for over a week , there be no sign that any work have actually begin , and it be cause unacceptable delay to local business throughout Essex and the whole of east London . this be simply unacceptable , and there be now talk of the project go on until September and beyond . would the Leader of the House be good enough to ask the Secretary of State for Transport , who use to be deputy mayor for transport in London , to get on to her friend the Mayor of London , and TfL , and ask they to make an urgent statement , end the disruption in my constituency and get on with the job ? I be really sorry to hear about the frustration that roadwork be cause in the hon . member ' s constituency . I be sure that we have all have that experience of see roadwork sign but no work happen , just all the disruption instead . I shall certainly raise that with Ministers for he . as he rightly say , this be a matter for Transport for London , and I be sure it have hear his question , but I will ensure he get a response . many of my constituent who live in park home have be in touch . they have work really hard all their life , and they love and value live in these community . they be responsible for the upkeep of these home , which be not holiday home — these be their home — and for upgrade their property where they choose to . however , if they wish to sell these home , they be subject to a 10 % charge on the sale of the property , due to the owner of the site . that seem unfair . what will the Government do to fix this problem ? I thank my hon . friend for once again raise the issue of park home commission fee , because it have be raise many time in business question . I be sure that , if hon . member across the House be to put together , it would make a topic for a very well - attend Backbench Business debate . this Government recognise the challenge of park home — include , often , people ' s inability to sell property and the feeling that they be , in some case , mis - sell . we will set out plan in due course and I will ensure that the House be update . city region in the UK be set to benefit from £ 15 billion of investment in transport infrastructure , while Cornwall get nothing . meanwhile , my constituency do not have a single mainline train station , and the close station , Bodmin Parkway , have no disabled access . now we hear that our vital share prosperity funding be set to end all together . can we please have a debate in Government time on fair funding for those region , like Cornwall , that be be leave out and leave behind ? I be sorry to say that I do not accept that characterisation . while the spending review do set out additional fund for metro mayor area , it also set out considerable additional support to rural and other area ; I can update the hon . gentleman on some of that . in addition , the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill , which be currently go through Parliament , will give local area the ability to offer more affordable , more reliable bus in constituency like his . we have cap the bus fare at £ 3 , which I be sure will make a big impact in his constituency , and we be determined to make sure that transport be accessible and there for all , whatever community they live in . we owe our veteran and service personnel a great debt , and we eternally thank they for their service to and sacrifice for this country — particularly in proud regiment town like Burnley , Padiham and Brierfield . will the Leader of the House join I in thank Healthier Heroes , Andy , Rio and the powerful community of support they have build for veteran and their family across the constituency for host their Armed Forces Day festival and celebration recently at Towneley Park ? with the Duke of Lancaster ' s regiment parade their freedom of the borough through Burnley for the first time in 12 year on Tuesday , will she also join I in welcome they home ? I absolutely join my hon . friend in pay tribute to all those who recognise and contribute to Armed Forces Day in his constituency . at last week ' s question we hear many such account from across the country , and it always warm my heart to hear about they ; I thank he for bring that to we . in 2023 , Twycross zoo and I secure £ 19 . 9 million from the levelling - up fund . I be pleased to report that , when I visit a couple of week ago , spade be in the ground for the global conservation centre . I thank Hinckley & Bosworth borough council , Dr Rebecca Biddle and the chief executive officer Craig Dunkerley . the centre be very important because it will not only bring job and tourism , but , most importantly , it will train the conservationist of the next generation . can we have a debate on why a centre like this be so important in teach the next generation how to protect endangered specie , particularly orangutan , which this centre will focus on ? I thank the hon . gentleman for bring that issue to the House . twycross zoo sound like a fabulous location , not only bring tourist and visitor to his constituency — how important that be — but , as he say , provide research , teaching and education so that we can all value the contribution of conservation and ensure that we protect specie and habitat into the next generation . my constituent Katherine have give 25 year of service as a civil servant , but she have be experience difficulty in resolve discrepancy with her pension forecast — an issue that the National Audit Office recently highlight as a failure with the civil service pension scheme . will the Leader of the House help I to raise the matter with the relevant Minister so that people like Katherine can receive accurate and timely information ? I be sorry to hear about Katherine ' s case and I shall certainly raise it with Ministers . my hon . friend raise a broad point that need address . will the Leader of the House ensure that before the summer recess there be either a statement or a debate in Government time on Sudan ? she will know that it be the bad humanitarian crisis ongoing in the world : ten of thousand of people kill , million displace and million face hunger every day , particularly in the Darfur region . it be state to be the Government ' s no . 1 foreign policy priority beyond Gaza and Ukraine , and of course the UK be the penholder at the United Nations . it be vital that the issue be urgently debate in this House . the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . the Government recognise that the situation in Sudan at the moment be one of the bad in the world , which be why we be provide so much aid to Sudan . we have announce lifesaving funding for over 650 , 000 sudanese people and the Foreign Secretary be keen to make Sudan one of his first visit when he come into office . the right hon . Gentleman will be aware that we have update the House a number of time through statement , but I take on board what he say and I will ensure that hon . member be keep update as thing go forward . People live only a few mile apart in Greater Manchester be be offer vary number of IVF cycle . in my Stockport constituency , only two IVF cycle be offer , whereas in Tameside it be three . NHS Greater Manchester be consult on plan to reduce the offer across all borough in Greater Manchester to only one free cycle . although I welcome step to increase equality in this area , the first IVF cycle be often unsuccessful , and this proposal would disproportionately disadvantage those in Stockport and across Greater Manchester who be on low income and can not afford to pay for further cycle . will the Leader of the House allow a debate in Government time on equal and fair access to IVF ? my hon . friend be right that equal and fair access to IVF be incredibly important . we all know someone who have be affect , and how important it be for people who want to have child and start a family to have access to free and fair IVF treatment . I be sorry to hear about the proposal in Greater Manchester — as an MP in Greater Manchester , I will look into that for myself . these be issue for local health commissioning body , but I will ensure that minister look into it and we update the House . order . to ensure everybody get a fair chance of get in , question and answer must be short . as my East Sussex neighbour , Madam Deputy Speaker , you be likely to be familiar with the issue that I want to raise . in Polegate in my constituency , there be a grow parking crisis . local business and resident be suffer because of antisocial parking — often pavement parking — and a lack of effective enforcement . will the Government make time for a debate on the impact of antisocial parking in town like Polegate , and what more can the Government do to support effective enforcement in order to promote and support our high street business ? I be sorry to hear about the pavement parking and parking problem in Polegate . pavement parking can cause real problem , especially for wheelchair user and other . local authority have the power to tackle the issue , but we constantly keep it under review . I know lot of we have receive many email about the issue in recent week . I recently spend the day with the amazing volunteer team at the Bread and Butter Thing at the Fair Green pub in Thorne , help to distribute surplus food to local resident in need . do the Leader of the House agree that charity , like the Bread and Butter Thing , and the volunteer who dedicate their time be the true hero of our community ? will she also join I in thank the supermarket and business that donate surplus food to be turn into nutritious , affordable bag of shop for those family who really need that help ? I join my hon . friend in thank those at the Bread and Butter Thing for all the work that they do in tackle food poverty in his constituency . I be sorry that food poverty be still such a blight on many of our community , but the work that supermarket and other do — donate food so that it do not go to waste and can help to tackle these issue — be really important . can we have a debate to recognise volunteer and fundraiser who support the work of hospice and help people live with cancer ? I recently meet the team at the Lavender Touch in Galashiels who have be support people across the Scottish Borders for over 20 year , fund and provide therapeutic treatment to bring relief to those in need . will the Leader of the House join I in thank they for everything that they do ? absolutely . I join the hon . gentleman in thank all those at the Lavender Touch , and at all the other hospice across his constituency and the country , for all that they do in people ' s hour of most need . I think that most of we would not be able to do that job , so we thank they greatly for do it . yesterday , three organisation be proscribe . two be neo - nazi and ethnonationalist group , and the other be Palestine Action — an organisation with unacceptable and often criminal tactic . this House be give a binary choice of vote for or against proscribe all three group , although many hold substantial concern about the proportionality of proscribe Palestine Action . will the Leader of the House clarify what can be do when motion to approve statutory instrument insufficiently capture the view of member ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that issue , which be discuss in the debate yesterday by many colleague . as the Minister set out , there be a clear precedent for the approach take yesterday — it happen in 2001 , for example , when the motion bundle together 20 other militant group alongside al - Qaeda . I know the strength of feeling on this issue , but I assure my hon . friend that the Home Secretary must reasonably believe that any such organisation be concern in terrorism in any form , and we do not take these decision lightly . I want to be clear that the proscription of Palestine Action be not aim at ban all protest that support Palestine by any mean . there be many way in which people can continue to express their support for Palestine without become a member of that organisation . Freedom Performing Arts , a dance school in Knaresborough , be currently represent England at the dance world cup in Spain . it have to raise £ 30 , 000 from the local community , business and parent to get there , and it still face a funding shortfall . will the Leader of the House join I in wish Amy and the entire team the good of luck and make time for a Government debate on support for grassroots dance and perform group ? they not only represent our country internationally , but bring such huge social and community benefit . I will absolutely join the hon . Gentleman in support Amy and all those involve in Freedom Performing Arts . my daughter be heavily involved in her local dance group , but we want all child to have access to perform art , music and the art more generally . that be what our curriculum review will do and what the work of the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport be do in support grassroots community . we want to see this access for all , not just for a few who can afford it . on Saturday , we mark the 80th anniversary of the great reforming Labour Government : the Attlee Government , which bring in the welfare state . I have to say I be so disappointed that the Government be press ahead with the Universal Credit and Personal Independence Payment Bill — or should I call it the universal credit Bill , in the light of the fact that assessment for the health element will depend on the outcome of the timms review ? it seem therefore that we can not press ahead with the Bill , not least if the Government have not learn the importance of co - production with disabled people . none of the deaf and disabled people ' s organisation want this Bill to go ahead , yet they still have not be consult . as I say previously , the Bill be now considerably narrow in scope . it do protect the income of those who currently receive universal health support . we be absolutely committed , through the timms review , to the principle of co - production , which be why we be now remove from the Bill all reference to the personal independence payment go forward . co - production will mean co - production , and I hope it will mean some consensus around those issue . that be why we be take forward the Committee stage of this much narrow and short Bill next week before we undertake the timms review . I wish to raise the deeply concern situation face the Ahmadiyya muslim community in Pakistan , where violent attack have intensify in recent week . I meet some representative last night . the destruction of place of worship , the desecration of grave and continue arrest under blasphemy law reflect a broad pattern of state - enable persecution and social marginalisation . will the Leader of the House please request that the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs update the House on the Foreign Office ' s assessment of the deteriorate human right situation for Ahmadis in Pakistan ? what step have the Foreign Secretary take to engage with Pakistan authority and international partner to ensure the protection of religious minority , uphold freedom of religion or belief , and press for accountability and legal reform ? as ever , the hon . Gentleman raise an incredibly serious issue . he will know that we continue to urge the Government of Pakistan to fully investigate incident of violence , prosecute those responsible , and provide justice to victim and their family . as a government , we be commit to defend freedom of religion and belief for all , wherever those issue exist . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the Change Grow live charity , which help people to overcome alcohol and drug addiction and recently open a new recovery hub at its central Rugby office ? I have see for myself its holistic approach , from professional medical support to art session and the impressive ambassador programme run by former service user , which give people dignity and hope . do the Leader of the House agree that it would be good if we could debate the contribution make by such charity ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate and thank all the volunteer who engage in the Change Grow live initiative in his constituency . we all know the effect that the blight of alcoholism have on family , child and those who be alcoholic , and how vital it be that people get support early and consistently . get that kind of support into community to prevent alcoholism from develop in the first place be what our plan for the NHS and for this country be all about . Joanne , a constituent of mine , have be badly affect by a botched botox treatment she undergo to help her scoliosis pain , which sadly have leave she almost paralysed . the doctor who carry out the procedure do not have the correct licence to practise at the time ; have only do a one - day course on botox treatment ; use cosmetic , rather than medical , botox ; and have previously be strike off by the General Medical Council . give the increase amount of botox in use , will the Leader of the House commit to set aside Government time for a debate on improve the regulation of such procedure ? I be sorry to hear what happen to Joanne . this issue be raise with I regularly during these session ; people ' s life be be put at risk by poor regulation and the poor training of many people in the cosmetic sector . we will soon bring forward and publish proposal in response to the consultation on the licensing of non - surgical and surgical cosmetic procedure in England . I be sure many hon . member have receive a number of email in relation to e - bike . e - bike be a great way to help people switch to active travel , and they keep many of my constituent fit and healthy and able to get from a to b . however , several constituent have raise concern about the increase number of home - modify e - bike , and about the difficulty of import part from the European Union and ensure that seller of e - bike be reputable . will the Leader of the House schedule a debate in Government time on e - bike , so that we can ensure that the regulation be correct and that our constituent be able to use e - bike safely ? the nuisance cause by e - bike , and their regulation and safety , be of concern to member across the House . we have take step and be look into these issue far , and I will ensure that my hon . friend and the rest of the House be keep update . I call Chris Vince . I be not expect to be call quite so soon , Madam Deputy Speaker , as you can probably imagine . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Jo Doyle , the new headteacher of Sir Frederick Gibberd college in Harlow , on her recent appointment ? as the Leader of the House know , the school have suffer a number of issue . it be force to close down after be open for only four year because of the modular construction that be use , with student teach be in portacabin and — at one point — even in marquee . despite that , mainly due to the hard work of the teacher , the school have continue to thrive and its young people have be very successful . I be look forward to work with Jo and her team to ensure that it continue to thrive . maybe my hon . friend be become one of Madam Deputy Speaker ' s new favourite — rightly so . I congratulate Jo Doyle and all of those at Sir Frederick Gibberd college on the fantastic work they have do to turn the school around and provide such a quality education to young people in Harlow . resident in Burniston be wait anxiously to see whether North Yorkshire council will approve Europa Oil and Gas ' s application to undertake small - scale fracke on the edge of the North York Moors national park . the technique , know as a proppant squeeze , be not currently include in the moratorium on fracke , but my constituent be understandably impatient to see it include in a future ban . will the Leader of the House find Government time for a debate on fracke ? as my hon . friend know , and as she rightly point out , this Government be commit to ban fracke for good . that be what many member want to see . we be keep under review the regulation of proppant squeeze , which she describe , because those be not bind by the fracke regulation , and I will ensure that she and the House be update . can the Leader of the House assist I ? I be concern by the decline in clinical academic , who be crucial to the training of our future health workforce . to which Department must I address this matter ? the Department of Health and Social Care defer to the Department for Education , and the Department for Education defer to the Department of Health and Social Care . how can we resolve this ? may we please have a debate in Government time on the future of clinical academic and medical research ? my hon . friend raise an important issue , which be vital to the future workforce of the NHS and ensure that we have the research and innovation that the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care will shortly be outline in the statement on the 10 - year NHS plan . I think the Department for Education would be responsible for this area , but I be happy to raise it with both . it be an issue I have raise on behalf of my constituent , too , so I will certainly help my hon . friend out with that . the TV Harrison football ground in my constituency be a historic part of Wortley . it be know as Wortley ' s Wembley , and Leeds United legend such as David Batty and Paul Reaney use to train and play on it . however , after be abandon over recent decade , it be at risk of be lose forever . after a six - year campaign by local resident , I be pleased to say that the ground have be save . for my part , I have spend three of those year work with the owner and resident to get a new owner for the site . I be pleased to announce that that new owner be Leeds United . I be incredibly pleased that that football club have choose to invest in our constituency and , in addition , will restore the ground to its former glory . will the Leader of the House join I in pay tribute to everyone involve in this campaign and to Leeds United ? will she grant a debate in Government time on the need for football club to invest in their community ? I take this opportunity to congratulate my hon . friend on his leadership on this issue and on get Wortley ' s Wembley — what a great title — back into use . I thank Leeds United and all those in the local community who have be involve , because I know just how important this project will be for his community . what a great achievement in his first year as a new Member of Parliament to get it off the ground . Charlie Rogers be a unique chronicler of my community . he be a friend of L . s . Lowry and the pitman painter Norman Cornish , and his painting and illustration of working - class life in central Gateshead and central Newcastle be incredibly powerful and deserve a wide audience . my constituent , Brian Rankin , be hope to bring his work to a wide audience with this fantastic collection " pursue by bulldozer " , which it will be possible to view next week . will the Leader of the House provide Government time for a debate on the art and culture of Gateshead , which we be incredibly proud of ? my hon . friend have give a great advert for the remarkable work of Charlie Rogers and the upcoming exhibition , " pursue by bulldozer " . I be sure that his advert will encourage many people to come and look at it . pub be at the heart of many community across the country , and that be certainly the case in Nottinghamshire . what make they special be their unique , traditional character and their close tie to everyone who live in the community , which be very much true of the Horse & Groom pub in Linby . however , many pub face financial pressure and be at risk of be take over by large company and lose their charm and unique identity . do the Leader of the House agree that more should be do to protect local pub , such as the fabulous Horse & Groom in Linby ? I completely agree with my hon . friend that the thousand and thousand of pub across the country , include the Horse & Groom , be vital to our community . we support they as a Government , and we support the hospitality sector . how we use pub have change over time , but we need to support they go forward . my constituent in Ashford constantly contact I about strengthen animal welfare legislation . one of the issue they be particularly concerned about be the use of snare , which be imperfect and indiscriminate trap that regularly cause unnecessary suffering and harm to animal . not only do they hurt the animal they be set to catch ; other animal and pet be catch , injure and sometimes kill by they . can the Leader of the House find time for we to debate bring an end to the use of these cruel and unnecessary trap ? this Government be commit to introduce the most ambitious programme for animal welfare in a generation , and that include address the use of snare trap , as my hon . friend describe . I will ensure that he and the whole House be keep update . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Explore Buxton , base in my constituency of High Peak , which be name the good local tourism platform at this year ' s SME midland enterprise award ? Buxton be an extraordinary spa town surround by the beautiful Peak district — if anyone have not be , I very much recommend come to see the most beautiful constituency in the country . will the Leader of the House arrange a debate in Government time on how we can support tourism in all part of the country , and particularly in our market town ? there be always a great competition in these session for the most beautiful constituency , but I can confirm that Buxton and many other part of my hon . friend ' s constituency be indeed beautiful and well worth a visit . I join he in congratulate Explore Buxton , and encourage those who want to have a lovely day out to go to Buxton . rochdale be the historic birthplace of the co - op movement , so it be fitting that we will host the UK Co - op Congress 2025 this weekend . there be an impressive array of speaker , include Steve Coogan , Patrick Grant , my hon . friend the Member for Peterborough ( Andrew Pakes ) , and the Leader of the House herself . as we celebrate the International Year of Co - operative , will she join I in pay tribute to representative of the Co - operative Union of Palestine , whom I meet in Ramallah early this year , for all their heroic work in keep community together — against the odd — in the west bank and Gaza ? I be really look forward to come to my hon . friend ' s constituency tomorrow to speak at the Co - op Congress . I be not sure whether the attraction be I or Steve Coogan — I be pretty sure it be Steve Coogan . I join my hon . friend in thank co - operative for their work , include the one in the west bank and Gaza that he describe . it just show that when we come together and work in a mutual way , we can really tackle some of the big problem that the world face . give the welcome news in today ' s new 10 - year plan for health that the NHS app will be upgrade and be central to the way that patient take control of their own healthcare , can the Leader of the House please advise I how I can well use parliamentary time to challenge the scourge of mobile notspot in my constituency , particularly in village like Iwade ? my hon . friend be absolutely right : if we want to have a digital NHS and digital service that people can access , we need to make sure that we have the infrastructure , the broadband and the mobile datum capability to match our ambition . there be lot of opportunity for he to raise this issue in the House , but I will ensure that a Minister take up his cause after today . one hundred and twenty - one of my constituent in Tamworth be member of the British Coal staff superannuation scheme , and they have be in touch with I . they ask that their investment reserve be release and use to boost their pension , just as the Government do with the mineworker ' pension scheme . that would make a massive difference to former mining community like Tamworth , and improve their living standard in retirement . may I ask the Leader of the House for a Government statement before the summer recess on the timeline for the release of the BCSSS investment reserve ? my hon . friend will be pleased to know that I have just announce that the Second reading of the Pension Schemes Bill will take place next week . there have be a great deal of discussion of these issue when put together that piece of legislation , because it be vital that constituent like hers be able to get the value that they need from their pension scheme go forward . my right hon . friend will be aware of the importance of post office to community up and down the country , particularly those where there be no bank and where other facility be in short supply . I hope she share my concern that the post office in Drumchapel , in my Glasgow West constituency , be be threaten with closure . will she allow a debate in Government time on the merit of post office and their importance to local community across the land ? my hon . friend be not the first Member today to raise the issue of her constituency ' s post office service , which be vital . post office provide a huge range of service , many of which have now go from our community and high street , include access to cash and banking service . I be sorry to hear of the propose closure of the post office in her constituency . I join she in put pressure on Post Office Ltd to look at these issue and make sure it take on board the local MP ' s concern . as a lifelong trade unionist , I will be proud to stand with my constituent in Paisley and Renfrewshire South this weekend as we have our annual sma ' Shot Day , which be our annual celebration of the historic victory of local weaver in their trade dispute with the Paisley mill boss . this week , our Labour Government be build on their legacy with the introduction of our parental leave review and of the timescale for the implementation of our Employment Rights Bill . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate everyone involve in our annual sma ' Shot celebration and in pay tribute to the work be do to advance worker ' right ? I only learn of the Sma ' Shot Day celebration last week , and I be really proud and pleased to hear about they . I be also proud of the work this Labour Government be do to build on the legacy of the generation of those who campaign for worker ’ right with our Employment Rights Bill and our parental leave review . my team and I recently help a woman in my constituency to divorce her abusive partner and reclaim her home by press for she to have access to legal aid . however , because of delay and error by her legal aid solicitor , who fail to grasp the complexity and risk involve , she remain expose to harm . will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on access to specialist legal aid for domestic abuse survivor as part of the Government ' s crucial mission to halve violence against woman and girl and to protect other in her position ? I be really sorry to hear about my hon . friend ' s constituent ' s experience , especially at the point in her life of leave someone abuse she at home . I know the Safeguarding Minister be focus on these matter , and I will ensure that she update he . Falmouth , a densely populate area on a peninsula , lose its swimming pool in 2022 , when the conservative council allow the contractor to close it for financial reason , and school in Falmouth be struggle to arrange swimming lesson elsewhere . Tregony school football pitch need resurface . can the Leader of the House confirm that the fund for grassroots sport and major event will cover project from the scale of Falmouth ' s pool down to Tregony ' s football pitch , and will she consider hold a debate in Government time on Government support for grassroots sport ? I be sorry to hear that my hon . friend ' s leisure centre swimming pool have close . this government have not only put additional resource into such grassroots sport facility but give local government one of the big settlement it have have in many year . I will ensure that a Minister talk to she about the availability of such fund for her constituent . the Leader of the House rightly celebrate the one - year anniversary of this Government , with all the great work start on the NHS , transport and new home . she will be aware that a one - year anniversary be a paper anniversary , and on the subject of paper , would she consider grant a debate in Government time on the amount of paperwork require for resident to exercise the right to manage on new build estate in area such as Dartford and around the country , so they can properly exercise control over the service provide to they ? that be a good little segue there . I know the right to manage be of real concern to constituent , such as my hon . friend ' s , who live in leasehold property . a few week ago , Ministers bring forward measure from the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 , but there be furth to go in implement the measure in that Act , and we will also bring forward a draft leasehold reform Bill in due course . I recently visit Concordia leisure centre in Cramlington , and as well as see the leisure facility , I hear at first hand about the service it offer , such as SEND swimming lesson , support internship and social prescribing service . local sport and community facility be the bedrock of many community in bring people together , so can we have a debate on recognise the true asset that these facility be , and how my asset of Community Value ( Sports Facilities ) Bill would strengthen their protection ? I congratulate my hon . friend on bring forward her Bill , which highlight the value that sport facility such as Concordia leisure centre bring to our community . they should be value and , as a Government , we do value they . we be bring forward measure so that community can keep they in their control . we have experience some cruel heat in this Chamber this week , but in Na h - Eileanan an Iar school have already break for the summer . before they leave for their holiday , the p5 pupil of Stornoway primary give I a lesson , in Gaelic and in English , on their anti - bully strategy . do the Leader of the House agree that the value of Stornoway primary ' s anti - bullying strategy , drive by coibhnea — kindness — and urram — respect — be those that senior member of this House should take to heart in exchange across our Dispatch Box ? absolutely . the anti - bully strategy in the school in my hon . friend ' s constituency sound like a bit of training that many of we should go on . a couple of week ago , I hold a meeting in my constituency with the new owner of the State cinema in Grays town centre . this be a wonderful art deco building that have be close for the good part of my life . I have never , unfortunately , set foot in it , despite turn 40 a couple of week ago and despite be bear , breed and live in that place my whole life . there be hope , finally , for the State cinema that it might once again be somewhere that people in the town centre can view with pride and visit , bring their child and grandchild . however , there be a number of other derelict building in my constituency : the Jack o ' lantern pub in Ockendon , the Calcutta Club in Tilbury , the Bricklayers Arms in Grays — I could go on . will the Leader of the House allow for a debate in Government time on how we tackle the blight of derelict building in our town centre ? I be sorry to hear about the cinema in her constituency and the blight of other derelict building . my hon . friend will know that we have a manifesto commitment to replace the community right to bid with a strengthen right to buy when it come to community asset . I can let she know that the proposal be come forward very , very soon . Meur ras , Kaderyer . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . because of cornish national minority status , Cornwall will not and can not ever join a mayoral combine authority unless the Deputy Prime Minister impose it on we . there be a worrying trend across Government in industrial policy , transport , housing and health , which suggest that the only way to access the high level of devolution be through a mayoral combine authority . before the Government bring forward an english devolution Bill that discriminate against the people of Cornwall , will the Leader of the House use her northern english charm to encourage the Minister for Local Government and English Devolution , my hon . friend the Member for Oldham West , Chadderton and Royton ( Jim McMahon ) to meet I and cornish colleague to discuss this issue ? I know these issue be very much a concern for my hon . friend and cornish colleague , who rightly defend their right to choose and have a say on the local government and possible mayoral arrangement in their area . I will ensure that he get a meeting from the Minister . I reassure he that the devolution Bill we be bring forward be about enable power , not impose power . we need to see community want the type of arrangement they be go to choose . on Monday , around 300 , 000 people visit Bournemouth beach , many from out of area . the vast majority be there to enjoy the good weather and our fabulous beach , but other come with the explicit aim to start fight and cause general disorder which result in three of our police officer be assault . it be completely unacceptable that people treat our town with such flagrant disrespect . it have cause great worry in the local community and I know that ours be not the only coastal community that feel dismay at the additional pressure put on our police force during the summer month , have to police vastly increase number of visitor without the people or the money to do so . will the Leader of the House pass on my concern to the Home Secretary and consider time to debate how we can adequately address the issue of additional pressure , include look again at the policing funding formula ? I be sorry to hear about the incident in my hon . friend ' s constituency . the hot weather bring with it great opportunity for coastal community like her , but I recognise that when it bring antisocial behaviour , that can be a real problem . I will certainly pass on her call to the Home Secretary , but I assure my hon . friend that we be give the police the power that they need to tackle these issue , as well as the funding to carry they out . if the Leader of the House like pi ñ a coladas and get catch in the rain , may I suggest that she look no far than the Pi ñ a Colada Festival in Northwich on 16 August ? this event , in honour of Northwich - bear Rupert Holmes ' s song " Escape " — or , as he describe it , the song from which there be no escape — add around half a million pound to the local economy , and be now one of the most important event for the hospitality sector in Mid Cheshire . could the Leader of the House arrange for a debate in Government time on the role of such event in town centre regeneration ? should she wish to conduct some empirical research prior to any debate , perhaps she would like to visit Northwich on the 16th . yes — with I join she , no doubt . I thank my hon . friend for that lovely invitation . I think the Health Secretary , who be in his place , owe I a drink , so he might want to come with I to Northwich to have a little taste of a pi ñ a colada . I encourage member from across the House to have a cocktail in Northwich very soon . responsibly . will the Leader of the House agree to a debate on the grow number of empty shop in town centre ? in Dudley , the Conservative - hike parking charge , current poor transport link and antisocial behaviour as well as the rise of online shopping be drive business away , damage our local economy and community life . town centre be vital space where people can meet each other ; they foster a sense of belong and pride , and they need to be revitalise . my hon . friend be do a great job championing Dudley , which she represent . she be absolutely right : town centre regeneration , which have many different facet to it , need a holistic approach and real leadership . local area need the power , resource and policy to ensure that we can regenerate town centre such as Dudley , as this Government be commit to do . like most of we in this House , I be incredibly proud of the rich mix of community that I represent . it be an absolute privilege last week to attend a meeting at the Faizan - e - Madina mosque alongside representative from our cathedral , our chief of police , our fire service , the mosque and other faith and community leader to discuss the implementation of our city - wide Islamophobia statement , which come from a motion against Islamophobia put forward by Councillor Jamil and — unlike some debate in this House — receive cross - party support . will my right hon . friend join I in congratulate Councillor Jamil and Mr Choudhuri on their leadership on this important issue , and will she ensure that the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government continue to support community such as mine as we develop important cross - community initiative ? I be pleased to hear of the leadership that councillor in my hon . friend ' s constituency have bring to this matter . he be absolutely right : Islamophobia be a scourge across our society . we must do more to work together to stamp it out . for the final question , I call Paul Davies . hear , hear . it be always good to be last , isn ' t it ? last week , I have the pleasure of host Greenhead college , alongside my Kirklees colleague , where we have some excellent discussion on a range of important topic , include the state of youth service . under the previous Tory Governments , between 2010 and 2024 , these service suffer a devastating 73 % funding cut . although £ 45 million have now be find and pledge and new strategy have be introduce , there remain inconsistency . do the Leader of the House agree that youth service be vital , and will the Government make a statement on their future ? well , my hon . friend be certainly one of my favourite mps , even if he be not one of yours , Madam Deputy Speaker — last but certainly not least . he be absolutely right : youth service be critical to our community . we be produce a bold , new national youth strategy , which will be come to this House soon . I look forward to he contribute to it . NHS 10 - year Plan with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I shall make a statement to the House on " fit for the Future " , the Government ' s 10 - year health plan for England . there be moment in our national story when our choice define who we be . in 1948 , the Attlee Government make a choice found on fairness : that everyone in our country deserve to receive the care they need , not just the care they can afford . it enshrine in law , and in the service itself , our collective conviction that healthcare be not a privilege to be buy and sell , but a right to be cherish and protect . now it fall to our generation to make the same choice : to rebuild our national health service , and to protect in this century what Attlee ' s Government build for the last . that be the drive mission of our 10 - year plan . in September , Lord Darzi provide the diagnosis : the NHS be break by 14 year of conservative under - investment , and by their catastrophic top - down reorganisation . in the past year , Labour have put the NHS on the road to recovery . we promise 2 million extra appointment ; we have deliver more than 4 million . we promise 1 , 000 new GPs on the frontline ; we have recruit 1 , 900 . we have take almost a quarter of a million people off waiting list , cut they to their low level in two year . and we have launch an independent commission , chair by Baroness Casey , to build a national consensus around a new national care service to meet the need of old and disabled people into the 21st century . today , the Prime Minister have set out our prescription to get the NHS back on its foot and make it fit for the future . our plan will deliver three big shift . the first be from hospital to community . we will turn our national health service into a neighbourhood health service . the principle be simple : care should happen as locally as it can — digitally by default , in a patient ' s home if possible , in a neighbourhood health centre when need , and in a hospital where necessary . we will put neighbourhood health centre in every community , so people can see a gp , nurse , physio , care worker , and therapist , and they can get a test , scan or treatment for minor injury , all under one roof . the NHS will be organise around patient , rather than patient have to organise their life around the NHS . it will be easy and fast to see a gp . we will train thousand more , end the 8 am scramble , provide same - day consultation , and bring back the family doctor . if you be someone with multiple condition and complex need , the NHS will co - create a personal care plan , so your care be do with you , not to you . pharmacy will play an expand role in the neighbourhood health service . they will manage long - term condition , treat condition such as obesity and high blood pressure , screen for disease and vaccinate against it . we will also reform the dental contract , to get more dentist do nhs work , rebuild NHS dentistry . over the course of this plan , the majority of the 135 million out - patient appointment do each year will be move out of hospital . the funding will follow , so a great share of NHS investment be spend in primary and community care . the second shift be from analogue to digital . no long will NHS staff have to enter seven password to login to their computer , or spend hour write note and enter datum . our plan will liberate frontline staff from the part of the job that they hate , so they can focus on the job that they love — care for patient . for the first time ever , patient will be give real control over a single , secure and authoritative account of their datum . the single patient record will mean that NHS staff can see medical record and know a patient ' s medical history , so they can provide they with the good possible care . wearable technology will feed in real - time health datum , so patient ' health can be monitor while they stay in the comfort of their own home , with clinician reach out at the first sign of deterioration . the NHS app will become the front door to the health service , deliver power to the patient . you will be able to : book and rearrange appointment for you , your child or a love one you care for ; get instant advice from an AI doctor in your pocket ; leave feedback on your care and see what feedback other patient have leave ; choose where you be treat ; book appointment in urgent care so you do not wait for hour ; and refer yourself to a specialist where clinically appropriate . of course , patient can already do all that , but only if they can afford private healthcare . with Labour ' s plan , every patient will receive a first - class service — whatever their background and whatever they earn . the third shift be from sickness to prevention . work with the food industry , we will make the healthy choice the easy choice to cut calorie . we will roll out obesity jab on the NHS . we will get Britain move with our new NHS point scheme , and we will update school food standard so that kid be feed healthy , nutritious meal . we will tackle the mental health crisis with support in every school to catch problem early , 24 / 7 support with virtual therapist for those with moderate need , and dedicated emergency department for patient for when they reach crisis point . the science be on our side . the revolution in artificial intelligence , machine learning and big datum offer a golden opportunity to deliver well care at well value . new innovator passport and reform of the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence and the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency will see medicine and technology rapidly adopt . robotic surgery will become the norm in certain procedure , so patient recover from surgery at home rather than in hospital bed . the NHS will usher in a new age of medicine , leapfrogging disease so that we be predict and prevent , rather than just diagnose and treat . it be therefore the ambition of the plan to provide a genomic test for every newborn baby by 2035 . thank to my right hon . friend the Chancellor , this plan be back by an extra £ 29 billion a year by the end of the spending review period , as well as the big capital investment in the history of the NHS . alongside investment come reform . this plan slash unnecessary bureaucracy and devolve power and resource to the frontline . it abolish more than 200 body , because listen to patient , guarantee safety and protect whistleblower be core business for the NHS and should never have be outsource . the plan commit to publish league table to rank provider . we will intervene to turn around fail provider , and we will reinvent the foundation trust model in a new system of earn autonomy . pay will be tie to performance , so that excellence be recognise and failure have consequence . tariff will be reduce to boost productivity . block contract will end , with funding tie to outcome . the plan give power to the patient , so hospital be financially reward for well service . it close health inequality by invest more in working - class community , and it establish a national investigation into maternity and neonatal service to deliver the truth , justice and improvement that bereaved family deserve . I be sometimes tell that NHS staff be resistant to change . on the contrary , they be cry out for it . they suffer the moral injury of see their patient treat in unfit condition . they be one drive innovation on the frontline , so their fingerprint be all over this plan . the public be desperate for change too . each of we have our own story about the NHS and the difference it make to our life . we also know the consequence of failure . to succeed , we need to defeat the cynicism that say that nothing ever change . we know that the change in our plan be possible because it be already happen . we have tour the length and breadth of the country and scout the world for the good example of reform . if Australia can effectively serve community live in the outback , we can surely meet the need of rural England . if community health team can go door to door to prevent illness in Brazil , we can certainly do the same in Bradford . we know that we can build the neighbourhood health service , because team in Cornwall , Camden , Northumbria , and Stratford — where I be with the Prime Minister and Chancellor this morning — be already show we how to do it . we will take the good of the NHS to the rest of the NHS . we will apply to good example of innovation from around the world to benefit people here at home . above all else , we will give power to the patient . this plan fulfil Nye Bevan ' s commitment in 1948 to put a megaphone to the mouth of every patient . it will restore the found promise of the NHS to be there for we when we need it . of course , we know that there be those on the right who be will we to fail . they will exploit the crisis in the NHS in order to dismantle it . the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) and his crony argue that universal healthcare could be afford in the 20th century but not in the 21st . labour reject their declinist pessimism and so do the public . but that be the choice — it be change or bust , and we choose change . we know that the british people be count on we . it fall to we to ensure that the NHS not only survive but thrive , and we will not let our country down . of course , if we succeed , we will be able to say with pride that will echo down the decade of the 21st century that we be the generation who build an NHS fit for the future and a fair Britain where everyone live well for long . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for his typical courtesy in provide advance sight not only of his statement but of his plan . I be grateful , and other on the Government Front Bench might learn a thing or two from he . I be pleased to see the plan publish . this Secretary of State be a rare thing these day : one whose announcement do tend to survive largely intact for more than a week . in the case of the plan , it be vital that it do stick . the Secretary of State be not know to be short on ambition , and to be fair that be reflect in his plan ; it be ambitious . I believe that his long - term goal be right and that the reform he have set out build on the reform that the Conservatives set out and carry out . the desire to shift care from hospital to community , to well use technology and to move to prevention be not new at all , but it remain vital . the NHS undoubtedly need reform , not just more cash — it be not fiscally sustainable in the long term to have 38 % of day - to - day Government spending go on the NHS — so we need to focus on outcome , not just input . but the plan , while welcome , be still sketchy on some of the detail of delivery and how it will be pay for without the fund that the Secretary of State mention be eat by pay rise and by inflation , as well as how that shift will be staff . great use of the app be right , and build on the amazing work do on the app by my right hon . friend the Member for North East Cambridgeshire ( Steve Barclay ) when he be Secretary of State . great use of technology and of genomic be right , and the Secretary of State ' s big five tech bet be largely right , but , as he know , tech alone will not deliver this ; people will , so a workforce plan that be clearly align with his strategy be vital . neighbourhood health centre be one of the measure at the heart of the Secretary of State ' s plan . the concept be an interesting one , but it do throw up a number of question that I hope he can answer in the spirit in which they be ask . will the provider of those new centre be NHS public sector organisation , private sector organisation or a mixture ? how will the centre fit with GP provision and other service without duplication or fishing in the same pool for staff ? what assessment have he make of the cost of new building and technology to go in they ? how many centre do he envisage , and by when ? crucially , how will he ensure that a public - private partnership model will avoid the downside of the Blair - Brown private finance initiative model ? I ask those question from a desire not to see this fail but to succeed , because it be in all our interest that the Secretary of State do succeed , but that will take time . give that , on page 71 of his plan he talk about the need for " immediate opportunity " to be seize . although there will be other , may I take the opportunity to suggest just one ? he should deliver on the pre - election commitment for fracture liaison service to be deliver in all community , as campaign for by the Royal Osteoporosis Society , the Mail on Sunday , the Express and many other . that policy would deliver saving within the comprehensive spending review period . similarly , Melton Mowbray in my constituency have a fantastic community hospital — there will be many up and down the country — and I hope that such hospital will be a part of deliver more service in the community . on maternity care , I welcome the Secretary of State ' s commitment to a national investigation into maternity scandal , but I hope that will not stop he from deliver on the work do by the hon . member for Canterbury ( Rosie Duffield ) and Theo Clarke , which include measure that can be implement now to help improve maternity safety . on system reform , may I offer the Secretary of State a couple of word of caution ? one be on fold the Health Services Safety Investigations body into the Care Quality Commission , even as a discrete entity within it . HSSIB be not a regulator and be not design as such , and it be important that those distinction be not blur in make that change . similarly , may I urge he to be wary of far move integrate care board to large geography — they be at risk of become again the old regional health authority — as that will move they far away from the local community they serve and the entity provide social care in those community with whom they must interact ? that bring I finally to a significant question hang over the plan . unless we move fast to adjust to the challenge of social care and put it on a sustainable footing , these reform risk fail to seize the genuine opportunity present . in the move from cross - party talk to an independent commission , we risk lose that opportunity . crucially , I ask the Secretary of State again to consider bring forward the end date of that commission so that we can go far and fast on social care . I have often say to the Secretary of State that where he be wrong we will rightly hold he to account and challenge he , but where he be right we will offer constructive support . the plan , by and large , do say the right thing . we must shift to outcome and not focus continually on input , and we must do that through real and genuine reform . the challenge he face will be in the detail , much of which be still to be confirm , and crucially for the Government , in the actual delivery . he should not underestimate those challenge . I will work with he to improve the plan where it need it , but I will support he where he pledge and bring genuine reform to our healthcare system . his plan will have a key test : will patient see the difference , and when will they see the difference ? in all that we do , it be vital , as we reform our NHS , that patient be at the heart of our deliberation and our plan . I thank the shadow Secretary of State for his constructive approach to what do need to be a successful plan for the next decade , to get our NHS back on its foot , to make it fit for the future and to make sure we improve the health of the nation . aside from the line that he be no doubt give to trot out at the beginning — he almost say they with conviction — we know that we can count on he to be rather more serious and sensible than the display we see from the opposition yesterday . I turn to the shadow Secretary of State ' s point . he be right to say that investment need to go alongside reform . that be why the spending review only a matter of week ago set out the Chancellor ' s commitment to the NHS and NHS reform . the Government be provide a £ 29 billion real - term increase — a £ 53 billion cash increase — in annual NHS day - to - day spending by 2028 - 29 . that funding will support the first step towards deliver the reform , the service improvement and the new technology set out in the plan . but investment alone be not enough . one of the reason we be pay more and more for bad and poor outcome be that we have the wrong care in the wrong place at the wrong time . contrary to what we read in some newspaper column — on the radio this morning I hear the hon . member for Clacton once again attack the NHS ' s equitable principle and funding model — the problem be not the model of funding ; it be the model of care . that be why the shift to neighbourhood health be essential for deliver well outcome for patient and well value for taxpayer . the technology come down the track , and indeed the technology we already have , will drive the big productivity gain in the system that have elude we . in recent year , the previous Government invest in more staff , but they put all those staff in hospital to work in an undercapitalise NHS . if there be more input but not the enabler to deliver the service , we do not see the respond improvement in output and impact . that drive poor productivity , poor value for money and poor outcome for patient , and that be the approach that we be change . if , for example , we roll out , as we will , ambient AI to all GPs , and we make sure that in their interaction with patient we liberate they from be glue to the screen , fill out the form and draft the letter , because that be all do automatically before the GP spend a few moment check over to make sure it be right — if we can just save 90 second in every GP appointment — we will save the equivalent time of 2 , 000 more gps . that be how we get more bang for the buck , that be how we drive productivity improvement and that be how we deliver well care and well value . that be why the previous Government ' s workforce plan be not right . it assume that the NHS just need growth at the same rate and in the same way as always . in fact , so implausible be the assumption in that plan that if we have continue with the rate of growth that they have set out , by the end of the century 100 % of our entire country would be work in the NHS . I know we love the NHS and we love the people who work in it , but I do not think that everyone in our country can or should be work in the national health service . to reassure the right hon . Gentleman , we will , this autumn , set out a new workforce plan that align with this 10 - year plan . the shadow Secretary of State ask about neighbourhood health centre . we aim to go for 250 to 300 new neighbourhood health centre by the end of this plan and 40 to 50 over the course of this Parliament . they will be NHS provider and we will have a combination of new build and the refurbishment and rejuvenation of underutilised exist estate , both in the NHS and in the public sector . therefore , the cost of each neighbourhood health centre will vary , from the low million to around £ 20 million , depend on whether it be an upgrade , a refurb and expansion or a new build . give the undercapitalisation of the nhs that we inherit , even the record investment from public source that the Chancellor have provide will not be enough to deal with the capital backlog . that be why , as set out in the Government ' s infrastructure plan , with care and caution , and keep in mind the mistake that be make by the private finance initiative , we be look at alternative private source of investment to make sure that we can go far and fast on capital improvement , particularly in the neighbourhood health service . the right hon . Gentleman ask I to commit again to fracture liaison service . those service have a demonstrable impact on keep people well and provide both well outcome for patient and well value for taxpayer . that be why we want to see they roll out across the country . on maternity , I welcome his support for the investigation . NHS England be in the third year of the three - year plan put in place by the previous Government and we have seek to support that progress and not to interfere . yet as we have see , even with the most recent CQC report into the trust in Nottingham , we have so much more to do and an entire change in approach and culture be need , let alone a change in practice and behaviour . I be committed to work with all parliamentary party group across this House and to make sure that the expertise and insight that we have right across these Benches , on both side of the Chamber , help we to drive maternity improvement . he ask about we roll HSSIB into the CQC . let I provide he with this reassurance . HSSIB have be a really effective body , but we can not justify the duplication of back - office function and the inefficiency that come with that . however , the CQC , when we come into office , be in such a dire state that we have to replace the leadership and we have in place an improvement plan . the House therefore have my assurance that we will not roll HSSIB into the Care Quality Commission until we be assure that the CQC be back to the standard that we expect for it to perform its core duty today , let alone the work it will do with HSSIB house within the CQC . on icb , I will not measure success through the number of body in the NHS ; I think that have lead we to where we be . however , I be committed to make sure that as we devolve more power , more responsibility and more resource close to the frontline , to system leader and to provider leader , we also make sure that we have in place democratic accountability , so that Members of Parliament , local council and metro mayor can influence and shape healthcare where they live . the right hon . Gentleman also ask about social care . we be not wait for Casey . the spending review give an additional £ 4 billion to social care . we be deliver the big expansion of carer ' s allowance since the 1970 and a significant increase in the disabled facility grant . the Deputy Prime Minister and I will also shortly set out how we will deliver the first every fair pay agreement for the care workforce , build real social care progression . on neighbourhood health , social care have to be part of it . in the context of this plan , social care feature because it have a role to play on admission avoidance and speed up delay discharge . however , we know that social care be important in its own right and that be why it be important that it have its own commission . finally , the shadow Secretary of State ask about whether people will see and feel these improvement . we know on the government Benches that we will be judge by result and by whether people can feel the change that we be deliver . all I would say to people watch our proceeding today be this : in our first year , we promise 2 million more appointment to cut waiting list — we double that ; we promise to deliver 1 , 000 more gps — we have almost double that ; and we promise that people would see the NHS move in the right direction — waiting list be at the low point for two year . we know that there be more to do , but I hope that the progress people have see under this Labour Government reassure they that , when it come to our national health service , if anything , we under - promise and over - deliver . we know that people will see and feel the change . I say respectfully , give the shadow Secretary of State ' s constructive tone , that that will be the difference between a Labour Government and a conservative one . I call the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee . as the act Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee , I be delighted that the 10 - year plan be finally launch today . I thank the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care for present it to the House . the plan represent a major opportunity for constructive reform of the health and social care system , and I be delighted that the Secretary of State will come to the Committee on 14 July to be scrutinise on it . many organisation have wait patiently for the 10 - year plan to be publish . will the Secretary of State explain how the plan will help restore the promise of a first - class service in the NHS ? I thank my hon . friend for her question and for the leadership she be show to the Select Committee while the substantive Chair , the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) , be off on mat leave . what a delight it be to see the Committee Chair on the Terrace this week with her new baby . that be really delightful and we wish she well . one of the exciting thing for I about today ' s launch be just how widespread the support have be from across a range of different organisation that we will need to work with to deliver the plan . whether it be the royal college and the trade union , the organisation that represent patient , the wide range of healthcare charity or , crucially , frontline staff , everyone be up for this change and everyone be desperate for it to succeed . we will not get everything right and we will make mistake along the way . we will listen and always learn and reflect . we know in the government that we can not do this without effective leadership from Ministers , but nor can Government do this alone . it be now our responsibility to mobilise the more than 1 . 5 million people who work in the NHS , the more than 1 . 5 million people who work in social care and our whole country behind a national mission to get our NHS back on its foot , to make sure it be fit for the future and to make sure , fundamentally , that we attack the injustice that lead to ill health , so that we have a fairer Britain where everyone live well for long . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Secretary of State for early sight of the plan this morning . after year of conservative failure , a plan for the future of the NHS be welcome and Liberal Democrats support the Secretary of State in his vision to shift the NHS to a community - focused , preventive service . however , I seek his reassurance on some question . in the 143 page of the 10 - year plan , there be only a pass reference to social care . everyone know that we can not fix the NHS without fix social care . with so many people unable to return home from hospital to get the care they need , solve the crisis in social care be a huge part of move care out of hospital and into the community . will the Secretary of State bring forward the Casey review , so that it report in full this year , and reinstate the cross - party talk , so that consensus can be reach on the future of care ? I welcome the idea of a neighbourhood health centre , but how do that interact with the plan for GPs ? the 10 - year plan imply that GP contract will encourage they to cover a huge geographic area of 50 , 000 people . in North Shropshire , that would be two or three market town combine and would span dozen of mile . can the Secretary of State reassure I that there will still be a physical health centre , accessible to all , and that in area with little public transport in particular , people will be able to access care when they need it ? finally , the plan hinge on the shift to digital solution , and that be not without risk . the use of the NHS app be critical to what happen . how will the Secretary of State ensure that those without a smartphone — because they can not afford one , do not feel confident use one or simply do not have adequate broadband or internet — can access the NHS ? many elderly and disabled people in particular who be digitally exclude will feel worried by today ' s announcement . I welcome the liberal Democrat support for the plan , and the constructive way in which Liberal Democrats have seek to work with we since the general election in pursuit of well health and social care service . I understand the point the hon . Member make on social care . I will not repeat at length the point I make to the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Melton and Syston ( Edward Argar ) , but I hope the House be reassure by the action we be already take on social care , whether through great funding , the expansion of the carer ' s allowance , increase the disabled facility grant , the fair pay agreement , and ensure a partnership with social care to deliver well neighbourhood health service . give what we have say about the importance of datum , digital connection and well system , I should say that in some part of the country , the social care system be ahead of the NHS ; it make well use of datum , and join up system in a more effective and efficient way . the NHS can learn lot from social care , as well as the other way round . I will take on board the representation of the liberal Democrat and Conservative Front Benchers on speed up the Casey commission — that be duly note . I absolutely reassure the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) on the point that she raise about neighbourhood health centre . one of the reason we want to devolve so much power in the NHS be that I genuinely think that the close decision be make to the community they serve , the well the outcome and the provision . a one - size - fit - all approach to neighbourhood care simply will not work . my constituency be on the London - Essex border , and there be three hospital within a 15 - to - 20 minute drive of where I live . in many rural town , coastal community and village across the country , there be not even one hospital within that distance . in fact , people be drive huge distance across the country to get to a hospital . on our priority of roll out neighbourhood health centre , I want to reassure member on both side of the House that we will start with the area of great inequality and need , and community where people have to travel far to their near hospital , so that people can genuinely receive care close to home and , indeed , at home . technology can play a big role in that . I understand the cynicism about digital roll - out . government it project do not have a great reputation historically ; let we be clear about that . we be learn from past mistake and ensure that we have the right expert in the room to help we . so much of that be about the digital clinical leadership help to marry the well scientific and technological mind in our country to the good clinical and scientific experience to ensure that we get this absolutely right . we can not afford to fail or be leave behind . the tragedy in the country today be that there be so many brilliant innovator in life science and med tech who be design and make thing here in Britain , but when it come to scale up , they be ship out , because the NHS have be a poor partner and a poor customer . we will change that ; we will create more in Britain , and ensure that it be roll out right across the country . Staff will be liberate from the drudgery and toil of unnecessary bureaucracy and admin that can be automate , and patient will have more ease , convenience , choice and control at their fingertip . this revolution be happen , and it be crucial that no one be leave behind . I take seriously the point the hon . Member make about the digitally disconnected , and there be two response to that . first , people like I who book via the touch of a button free up telephone line , get out of the way of reception desk , and free up more capacity for face - to - face and telephone appointment . I believe strongly in horse for course , and in patient choice . those patient who want to pick up the phone or who want to be see face to face must be give that choice and control , and we will give it to they . secondly , work with the Science , Innovation and Technology Secretary , we will deal with the fundamental problem of digital disconnection in our country . I knock on the door of one of my party member when I be canvass down her street because I have hear she be ill . she open the door , and I ask if she be okay and if she need anything from the shop . she look I up and down as if I have just say the most ridiculous thing and say , " oh no , dear . thank you very much , but I do my shopping online with my iPad . " we should not assume that because people be old , they be naturally digitally disconnected . they be some of the most tech - savvy people , and we have to ensure that those skill be enjoy by all , in keep with the NHS ' s principle of ensure that healthcare be available universally to everyone , regardless of their ability to pay . rise — order . some 60 member wish to participate . clearly , the statement will likely impact every constituency in the country , so I understand why so many hon . member wish to question the Secretary of State . it be our intention to try to call everybody , but there be important business later that have to be reach . may I urge brevity on all member , and short answer on the Secretary of State ? Health Committee member Jen Craft will now set an example . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . the heart , soul and lifeblood of our NHS be the people who work in it . I doubt there be anyone in this House who do not owe a personal debt of gratitude to a health care worker . can the Secretary of State reassure I that the fingerprint of NHS worker be all over this 10 - year plan , and that it have be design and produce with all their valuable input ? I certainly can give my hon . friend that reassurance . we launch the big consultation since the NHS begin . we have over 270 , 000 contribution , 250 , 000 thousand response and almost 2 million visit to the change . nhs . uk website , so I can absolutely give people the assurance that staff and patient ' fingerprint be all over the plan . that be why we have such a rich plan , in which people can have confidence . there be much to welcome in today ' s plan , particularly the proposal to bring back family doctor , which I try to do but frankly do not succeed in do when I be Secretary of State , so we all wish he well with that , but do he agree that as we seek to transform out - of - hospital care , it be vital that we do not take our eye off the ball and allow another Mid Staffs inside hospital ? do he also agree that it be essential that the CQC give overall rating and call a spade a spade when it come to the quality of care in hospital , so that we know whether the care deliver by hospital in our constituency be outstanding or good , and if not — if it require improvement or be inadequate — that action can be take , and life can be save ? I strongly agree with my predecessor on that . it be important that the CQC ' s report and judgment can be understand by the public and the people responsible for carry out the improvement that it recommend . Via the NHS app , we will have much more transparency for patient about the range of provider , the quality of service and the view of other patient . that will give patient the freedom to choose , in a more data - drive way , where and when they be treat . there be also the importance of data - drive face - to - face inspection by expert . we can also have early warning system that would alert people who hold his office and mine that something be go seriously wrong , so that we can intervene before more life be lose unnecessarily . I call Select Committee member Josh Fenton - Glynn . the shift announce today , from analogue to digital , and from hospital to community , be exactly the shift that will make the NHS stable for the future . will the Secretary of State elaborate on the " analogue to digital " point ? a practice manager in Calder Valley recently say to I , " it ' s all very well look at artificial intelligence , but it take we half an hour to turn on a computer . " what more will he do to ensure that we improve the NHS digital offer for everyone work in the health service ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . on whether people feel cautious optimism or quiet scepticism base on the experience that he describe , I have hear the same thing so many time . " I love AI , genomic and machine learning — yep , great . but can you just give I the basic technology that work ? " well , I can confirm that in 2026 - 27 we will make sure that we create a single log - on for staff . I be not hold my breath for that to be the front - page splash tomorrow , but that one thing , as well as save load of staff time , will give they confidence that genuine change be come . as always , the Secretary of State make a good fist of an impossible job , but I think we all know in our heart of heart that this model , which take 38 % of public funding , be unsustainable in the long term . he mention the australian outback ; I have be a voice in the wilderness , urge he to replicate the excellent australian system , which be a mix of public and private . I will not do that again now , but may I ask he to at least look at Australia ' s pharmaceutical benefit scheme , which ensure national procurement of medicine , so that people who have a medical card there get their medicine cheap than people here ? I be always willing to search the world for way to spend taxpayer ' money more effectively , and the right hon . Gentleman make some good argument on make sure that we get a good deal on medicine pricing , and on use the real procurement power of the single payer model — but therein lie the answer to the other part of his challenge . it be the single payer model , create in 1948 , that make the NHS ideally place to get much well value in procurement , and to harness and lead the revolution in AI , machine learning , genomic and big datum , in a way that many insurance - base system struggle with . I assure he that if there be a well way of fund the NHS , I would have the political courage to make the argument , but we look at other system of funding and conclude that that be really not the problem . it be not the model of funding ; it be the model of care , and that be what we be go to sort out . when I knock on door in my Gloucester constituency , I hear time and again about the importance of tackle the 8 am scramble for a GP appointment , and the difficulty many of my constituent face under the Conservative Government get the care they need . will my right hon . friend explain how Labour ' s 10 - year plan for health will deliver on the Government ' s mission to get treatment out of hospital and into the community , so that every one of my constituent can get the care they need in the community in which they live ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question ; he be such a strong voice for the people of Gloucester . we be already deliver improvement in general practice , with 1 , 900 more GPs employ on the frontline , £ 900 million more for general practice , and the first contract agree with GPs for quite some year . we be work in genuine partnership with GPs , who will be at the centre of the neighbourhood health service and of neighbourhood health centre . I be determined to ensure that we do thing with our friend in general practice , not to they . where thing be work , I have no interest in go in like a bull in a china shop and impose top - down change unnecessarily ; we learn that lesson from Lord Lansley . I be confident that we have a plan that GPs will relish and embrace , and that they will feel reassure that the future of general practice be bright . after year of campaign for a Government to rebuild general practice , they finally have a Government who be on their side . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement on his plan . I note the comment on the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence and the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency , but the Scottish Medicines Consortium be the envy of the other three nation . I would like to offer he an early win . there be a drug , Enhertu , for the treatment of woman with secondary breast cancer ; it prolong life . it be available in Scotland and in 20 other nation . will he review the situation in England under this plan ? we work closely with NICE to make sure that we consider , in an evidence - base way , the case for prescribe new medicine . we want patient to have access to the late treatment and technology , and we work with the pharmaceutical industry to get as many medicine as possible to patient . we definitely need growth in this area . I have a counter - offer for the hon . Gentleman . I notice that the Scottish Government be now on their fifth health plan ; none of the other have work . we be always willing to help , and I will put a copy of the plan in the post to my scottish counterpart , but I will not hold out much hope . in England and Wales , where a Labour Government be in place , waiting list be fall ; in Scotland , waiting list be rise , and we have hear astonishing admission of failure from Ministers whose party have be in power for almost 20 year . it be very clear : Scotland need an alternative . Scotland ' s NHS need an alternative : Scottish Labour . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement . yesterday be one year to the day since I complete my radiotherapy treatment for prostate cancer . I be very lucky — my cancer be catch at stage 3 and be treatable — but I have to ask my gp for the prostate - specific antigen test that get I my treatment . I know my right hon . friend have that say he want to see a national screening programme aim particularly at black man over 45 , one in four of whom will get prostate cancer , people like I who have a family history of prostate cancer , and man over the age of 50 . will he ensure that we have a national screening programme as part of the 10 - year plan ? my hon . friend be absolutely right about the importance of screening , and it be brilliant to see he fight fit . that be exactly the sort of outcome that we want from effective diagnosis and treatment . he be also right to highlight the racial inequality in this area . it can not be right in this decade of the 21st century that black man be twice as likely as white man to die of prostate cancer . the national cancer plan will come out later this year , and the screening committee be look at the case he make . he will find at the centre of the 10 - year plan a commitment not just to diagnose early and treat fast , but to tackle the gross health inequality that blight our society in a way that be simply not tolerable in the 21st century . do the NHS 10 - year plan include an assisted die scheme ? if the present private Member ' s Bill run out of time at the end of this parliamentary session , and thus fall , will the Secretary of State reintroduce the legislation as a Government Bill in the next parliamentary session ? I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for that question — [ Laughter . ] give that the Bill be still pass through Parliament , assist dying be not refer to in this 10 - year - plan , but I assure both this House and the other place that regardless of different view among Ministers and across the House , we will abide by the law of the land . we will abide by the will of this House and the other place . if the Bill time out in the other place , I have no doubt that someone else will bring it back . I suspect it will not be a Government Bill . it be important that we have the debate and that we scrutinise the legislation well . I be proud of the way the House have conduct the debate . my hon . friend the Minister for Care , who be not in his place now , along with the Minister of State , Ministry of Justice , my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Sarah Sackman ) , have do an exemplary job in support people on both side of the debate to give the Bill the detailed scrutiny that it have here and that it will no doubt have in the other place . that be a credit to this House . let I say to the Secretary of State : well do . this be a really ambitious and excellent programme . on the subject of cancer care , in the past few year we have both have good experience of the NHS at its good , but it be important to improve service by get the NHS to work with university and the voluntary sector in local cancer alliance . will he look at what I think be an unintended consequence of that ? if a local cancer alliance be fund by an NHS trust , its funding continue ; if it be fund by an ICB , as the South Yorkshire cancer alliance be , its funding will be cut in line with the rest of the ICB ' s budget . that be not fair . whether an alliance suffer cut depend on which organisation fund it . will he see if he can rectify that ? I be grateful for my hon . friend ' s support . give his expertise , it mean a lot . I be especially grateful to the GPs in his constituency with whom he and I spend time ; that experience really have an impact on my thinking about neighbourhood health . on cancer , I be happy to look at the issue he raise with the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my hon . friend the Member for West Lancashire ( Ashley Dalton ) . we want to get this right . cancer alliance have play a valuable role , and we want to see that approach to join - up work between research , diagnostic and treatment go from strength to strength , so I will happily pick that up . in the constructive spirit that have characterise much of this discussion , I welcome much of what the Secretary of State have announce today : bring care close to people in their home , invest more in prevention — it be all good stuff . but there seem to be a miss opportunity here . in the 143 page of this document , there be virtually no mention of social care . Lord Darzi tell we last year that we can not fix the NHS without fix social care . six month ago today , the Secretary of State promise cross - party talk and urgent work on the Casey commission , but the commission be delay and the cross - party talk have never materialise . will the Secretary of State please treat the care crisis with the urgency it deserve and bring forward that work , so that we can build the necessary cross - party consensus to fix the care crisis ? first , I thank the hon . member for the Green party ' s support for so much of the 10 - year plan . she be right to highlight the importance of social care to resolve the NHS crisis . let I reassure she that we be act urgently as we await the first report of the Casey commission . the Chancellor do that with the Budget and the spending review , provide £ 4 billion more of investment . we have do that with the big increase in carer ' s allowance since the 1970 , and with the disabled facility grant , which do not just mean more ramp and home adaptation but more freedom , more dignity and more independence for disabled people . the Deputy Prime Minister and I will shortly set out how we will deliver fair pay agreement , and social care will absolutely be part of the neighbourhood health team . I hope that that reassure the hon . member . let I also reassure party across the House that we will wait for the Casey commission to launch . I would like to be able to proceed with the action we will be take in this Parliament and , crucially , with the long - term plan for social care in a cross - party way , to build that genuine national consensus — I would be delighted to achieve that . I call the Chair of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee . I thank the Secretary of State for this really ambitious and bold plan to make sure our NHS be fit for the future . he will be aware that Professor Ian Abbs , the chief executive of St Thomas ' hospital in my constituency , will step down later this year . I want to thank he for his dedication and compassion in lead St Thomas ' , especially during the covid crisis , when the hospital care for so many patient , include the then Prime Minister in his crucial hour . the Secretary of State may be aware that Royal College of nursing analysis show that by 2029 , 11 , 000 nurse may have leave the profession after work less than 10 year in the service . nurse cite exhaustion , mental health and stress as their reason for leave the profession . can he give we an update on how we will ensure we have a workforce that be fit , so that we can achieve our ambitious 10 - year plan for the NHS ? I be so grateful to my hon . friend for her question . I pay tribute to Professor Ian Abbs . he be an outstanding NHS leader , and we have love work with he . as with many people of his calibre move on from their position of leadership in the NHS , it be a bit like the Hotel California — you can check out any time you like , but you can never leave . we will not let he drift off into a quiet retirement ; we be determined to make use of his expertise . my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise the importance of nursing . nurse and midwife will play an increasingly important role in neighbourhood health . they be central to our shift to a modern , digital NHS . they be clinical leader in their own right . follow the 10 - year health plan , the chief nursing officer for England will work with the profession to develop a strategy that will make nursing and midwifery modern career of choice , to address the decline in application . as I have set out this week , we be look forward to work closely with the Royal College of Nursing and Unison — of which , I should say , I be a member — to make sure that the status , the condition and the impact of nursing on our NHS go from strength to strength , because nurse be the backbone of the NHS . we would not have a national health service without they . I join other in welcome much of the Secretary of State ' s plan , but I want to return to the question of the Health Services Safety Investigations Body , to which my right hon . friend the Member for Melton and Syston ( Edward Argar ) refer . I welcome the tone of the Secretary of State ' s response to that part of my right hon . friend ' s question , but will he agree to meet those of we from the Select Committee — a cross - party group of people — who campaign over many year to bring this body , which be still in its infancy , into existence before make any further decision on it ? as my right hon . Friend say , HSSIB be not a regulator , and to put it in with a regulator will create confusion about what it be . if he be Secretary of State for Transport , he would never dream of put the air accident investigation branch into the Civil Aviation Authority , because they have completely different and separate function . that need to be understand across the health service , and it be obviously not well understand at the moment . I welcome the hon . member ' s constructive approach . of course , we be happy to receive representation on HSSIB . I would just like to outline the problem we be try to solve , which be that the patient safety landscape be increasingly cluttered . we have far too many body try to do the same thing , cut across each other , and for frontline staff and leader on the receive end of those many and often compete instruction , it can actually make thing less safe rather than more safe . I really value the expertise in the Health Services Safety Investigations Body . we do not want to see that expertise lose , nor do we want to move it into the CQC prematurely , before the CQC be ready to receive it . I hope that that reassure he , but we be happy to have that conversation . I congratulate my right hon . friend , his Ministers and official on put together a vision for the NHS for the next 10 year . it will optimise how we live , but it be also really important that we can palliate how we die . could he set out how he will ensure that we do not have a postcode lottery for specialist palliative care service , so that we can palliate well for everybody across our country ? will he meet with the leader of the independent commission on palliative and end - of - life care to ensure that we get this right really quickly and for the future ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her question . we want a society where everyone receive high - quality , compassionate care from diagnosis through to end of life . palliative and end - of - life care service will have a big role to play in our shift out of hospital and into the community , the emphasis on personalisation for patient and their family , and the join up between primary and community care service . I would be delighted to hear more from the commission . it be really important that we get this right . regardless of where people stand on the debate about assist dying , the one thing that unite everyone across the House be a belief that palliative care need to be so much well than it be today , and that be what we will work on together . there be much that unite we in this House about the excellence in this 10 - year plan — in particular the fact that the NHS need reform and that , of course , healthcare should always be free at the point of delivery . but brilliant frontline staff , doctor and nurse say to I that the issue be the bureaucracy and the unnecessary process and procedure , include in social care . can the Secretary of State reassure the House that the senior management of the NHS be absolutely determined to reduce the bureaucracy , in particular around technology and the delay cause by GDPR ? the NHS leadership be absolutely determined to work with we to reduce waste , inefficiency and bureaucracy . we have in Sir Jim Mackey an outstanding chief executive of the NHS , and he and his team be work closely with minister to make sure we achieve that goal . as for the funding model , I just do not know where the Reform party stand from one day of the week to the next . I hear the leader of the hon . member ' s party on the radio this morning do the dance of the seven veil . he be normally very good at be a straight - talk politician — that be how he like to present himself — but I can not follow what the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) think about this issue . do he support a taxpayer - fund universal nhs free at the point of use ? [ hon . member : " no ! " ] I do not think he do . do he support the european - style insurance system ? I think he probably do — it be the only european thing he have ever support , by the way . we be in no doubt : the NHS need reform , but it need the Reform party like a hole in the head . I commend not only my right hon . friend and his team on today ' s 10 - year plan but also the leadership and Budget of our right hon . friend the Chancellor , who make today and the next 10 year of our NHS possible . for too long , the NHS have be stick in crisis mode . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State will remember take an important call while in my constituency , and he will know that life expectancy in Bury North can vary by seven year in ward just one mile apart . in East ward , Redvales and Moorside , where he take that call , child poverty rate now reach 42 % . can I ask he to ensure that those ward get a healthy share of the new funding for working - class community , so that we can start to close the health gap and give every child the chance of a long , healthy life ? my hon . friend be absolutely right ; it be on a snowy day of campaign for he in Bury North that I receive the phone call that would change my life , give I my kidney cancer diagnosis . despite that fact , I have since be back to Bury North ; I be not say that it be his bad luck — it be not causation . it be coincidence rather than causation , as my hon . friend the cancer Minister say — although , give both our experience , we will rethink our visit schedule to Bury . on a serious note , my hon . friend the Member for Bury North ( Mr Frith ) be absolutely right to make the link between poverty , particularly child poverty , and ill health . the last Labour Government lift 400 , 000 child out of poverty ; I be so proud to think that when in the first year of this Labour Government we choose to extend free school meal to half a million child from low - income family , with that one measure on one day we lift 100 , 000 child out of poverty . that be the difference labour government make , and that be how we will deliver not just an NHS fit for the future , but a fair , more equal , more just society . I look forward to study the detail of this plan , but I welcome the Secretary of State ' s commitment to neighbourhood health centre and likewise his commitment in a previous answer to rural community . may I therefore offer he a golden opportunity ? he will have hear I over many year in this House call for funding to build a new health centre in the village of Long Crendon , which lose its gp practice during the pandemic . they have the land , they have the planning permission and it will cost less than his low number of £ 200 million to build . will he convert word to delivery and commit to Long Crendon ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his support with the plan , which I be sure be in no way connect to the fact that he want some money out of we for that neighbourhood health centre . I will take his question as the first bid we have have from those on the Opposition Benches , and I look forward to receive those representation from he . the Secretary of State will know how important improve mental health support be to I . I hope that what the 10 - year plan say about access to mental health provision will help to address the long waiting time for mental health service that the Government inherit . I particularly welcome what he say about use the NHS app for patient to self - refer for various treatment . I hope that that will cover talk therapy as well . do he share my belief that open up access to talk therapy in that way will enable more people to get that effective treatment at the right time , so that they can well manage their condition ? I thank my hon . friend for his service to our country and our NHS . we be so lucky to have his expertise in the House . I be really proud that this Government will deliver mental health support in every primary and secondary school in the country and neighbourhood mental health service in every community . we will also ensure that people who be in mental health crisis do not end up in busy , noisy , overwhelm A & E department , but will instead go to new mental health emergency department , which we aim to roll out across 50 % of type 1 A & E department — either co - locate or , if not , certainly nearby . I look forward to work with he on that . my hon . friend be quite right to emphasise the importance of talk therapy . that be how we not only help people to achieve their good when they be young and in education , but ensure that people be support to stay in the world of work or to find work . we know there be a demonstrable link between mental health and wellbeing , good work and good outcome . that be very relevant this week . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s 10 - year plan . in October , in response to my Westminster Hall debate on the national cancer plan , the Government commit to publish one later this year . I be confident that that will happen in the autumn , and the wide cancer community be equally enthusiastic . however , the 10 - year plan announce today make only a brief mention of the national cancer plan . can the Secretary of State confirm that improve diagnosis , improve screening for at - risk group , improve treatment outcome , concentration on rare cancer and cancer in young people , well and continued workforce planning , more support and funding for research , well relationship with drug company and much more will be part of the national cancer plan ? I think for a moment there that the hon . Gentleman , have call for the plan , be go to write it . I can reassure he that he have cover all the right area ; I be delighted that he be as enthusiastic as we and the whole cancer community be about the plan . we deliberately do not go into specific condition in the 10 - year plan for health , because otherwise it would have turn into a Christmas tree , with every condition group try to attach its bauble to it , but it be really important that this 10 - year plan create the rise tide that lift all ship — include , as he note , not just common condition , but the rare one too . I congratulate the Secretary of State on bring forward a bold and ambitious plan for our national health service . we know that by 2050 there will be up to 4 million people live with sight loss , so we also need eye healthcare that be fit for the future . can my right hon . friend tell I that his plan will end the postcode lottery , join up primary and secondary care , tackle the challenge with the workforce and provide a proper high - quality sight loss eye care pathway and investment in research and innovation , so that we can end avoidable sight loss once and for all ? I congratulate my hon . friend on her consistent campaigning on this issue , which have do so much to keep it on the national agenda . we will support more eye care service be deliver in the community , help to create capacity within secondary eye care service too . patient can be assure that optometrist have the training to manage a wide range of eye condition safely in the community . we will also support improve IT connectivity between primary and secondary care , which have be show to improve the referral and triage of patient , and enable the well use of technology to support local service . of course , there be still challenge : ophthalmology be one of the large out - patient specialty , represent 8 % of the total NHS waiting list , and the Royal College of Ophthalmologists workforce census find that 76 % of unit do not have enough consultant to meet demand . we will address those issue ; we be work across both the public and the independent sector to ensure that people receive the care they need , when they need it . a lot have be do but , as my hon . Friend say , there be so much more to do . I welcome this plan . as the Secretary of State be aware , my constituent Charlotte and James Bassett have be fight for answer since the death of their baby daughter Norah in 2019 . what assurance can he give my constituent that any recommendation by the national maternity and neonatal taskforce will be implement quickly ? I thank the hon . member for the outstanding way she have represent her constituent since she arrive in this House — not only on this issue , but on many other . I reassure she that we will work with family in a spirit of co - production to ensure that we identify what have go wrong , so that family receive truth and accountability for failure and the reassurance of know that improvement will be make so that other family do not have to suffer in the way that they have . thing have go so badly wrong , but I be confident that , with the approach we be set out , we will be able to make rapid improvement , and I will keep the House regularly inform . I thank the Secretary of State for this wonderful statement , deliver on a commitment that we make together at the Richardson community hospital in Barnard Castle two year ago to move service back into the community . I want to ask he about the use of bank staff in the NHS : not only be it a massive waste of money , but it have create a situation where only one in five of this year ' s midwifery graduate feel confident of get a job . on behalf of Mrs Rushworth , who be one of those , her friend , and nurse and midwife in the north - east who have contact I about this issue , what will the Secretary of State do to ensure that those who have give 2 , 300 hour of unpaid labour to the NHS and be graduate with ten of thousand of pound of debt can get a job ? I remember that visit to Barnard Castle — unlike visit by some people from Westminster , I be not there to get my eye test and my visit be perfectly within the rule . my hon . friend be right to emphasise the importance of neighbourhood health , which be in the plan , and of reduce the cost of agency spend in the NHS . I want staff to feel that they be part a team and for there to be more flexible working , so that people do not feel that they have to resort to agency work to receive flexibility . I be proud that within our first year we have save a billion pound in agency expenditure , get well outcome for patient and well value for taxpayer . the Secretary of State will be aware that the Carr - Hill formula have not be update since its introduction in 2004 : the staff market force factor be base on earning datum from 1999 and the population density datum that be use be the rurality adjustment from 2001 , but the population of Huntingdonshire have increase by 30 , 000 since that time . I know that the Department have not conduct an impact assessment on the benefit of update the formula , but the Secretary of State have announce that he will do so and that there will be sharp focus on money follow need . give that Huntingdon be a quickly grow region , where thousand more home be set to be build in the next 10 year , will he clarify for my constituent that the formula will be update and that GP surgery in Huntingdon will receive a fairer allocation of the global sum funding ? I can give the hon . Gentleman the assurance that we be reform the Carr - Hill formula and ensure that funding be base on need . I be delighted to be work closely with the British Medical Association ' s general practitioner committee on the reform that we be make in this and other area of general practice . I welcome this brilliant plan . I particularly love the double helix that be feature on the front cover , because genetic discovery have the great promise of all . if we all know a little bit more about our health , we might all look after it a little bit well . do the Secretary of State agree that the single patient record , with easy patient access , will be transformative ? give my hon . friend ' s expertise , I be delighted that he have welcome the plan so enthusiastically . I wholeheartedly agree with what he say . I give he 10 out of 10 for his product placement of the 10 - year plan and , in particular , his remark on the design of the front cover , which I will pass on to the team . have secure a Westminster Hall debate on the issue , I be delighted to hear the Secretary of State reconfirm that the Carr - Hill formula will be revise and change . I be also delighted with the ambition of the new plan , and I think it be very good in an awful lot of way . will the Secretary of State remember that GP surgery be business ? to correctly plan , they need confirmation and positive indication of where their funding will go over a multi - year period . if that be always in the front of his head , then all will go well . I have scan the plan and read about the new choice charter , the Care Quality Commission and the National Quality Board . however , I be concerned that the icb be become more powerful and unaccountable to local neighbourhood . the regulator be good and will keep they systemically accountable , but we be miss Healthwatch . I be disturbed that Healthwatch have be cancel as the patient advocate , give the patient ' s voice in local area . will the Secretary of State reassure we that there will be some way of get individual advocacy , as well as regulation ? I welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s support for the plan . success have many master , and I thank he for put the Carr - Hill formula on the parliamentary agenda through his debate . I can reassure he about a few thing . first , what the Chancellor have do in the spending review give we the advantage of medium - term certainty , so the NHS will now be in the business of medium - term planning with the system , which enable it to make well use of the money that be allocate . secondly , we be end Healthwatch — I express my thank to the people who have work in Healthwatch for many year — but we be give power directly to the patient . alongside that , we be look at what we can do to strengthen democratic accountability from elect representative , to ensure that the patient voice and interest be protect . as an NHS physiotherapist , I warmly welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement and the ambition set out in the 10 - year plan . in Dudley , we be already see the positive change of a Labour Government in bring down waiting list . with renew focus on community care , will my right hon . friend commit to empower ally health professional to lead the neighbourhood health centre , build on the successful model that we have see in Suffolk and North East Essex ? do he agree that we need more healthcare on the high street ? my hon . friend be absolutely right and it be brilliant to have her expertise represent on the Government Benches . she be right about the importance of physiotherapy , not just for improved and well - quality recovery , but for admission avoidance . I want physio and other allied health professional to be at the heart of the neighbourhood health service , and I know that she will hold we to account to ensure we deliver . I also welcome the statement and the 10 - year plan , and I offer my full support for most of the element . stay focus on the positive , I hope to be permit to raise three point . first , Dewsbury and Batley be unfortunately one of the many constituency with dental desert . Dewsbury West , a ward with over 20 , 000 resident , have no dentist , so how will the 10 - year plan and the Government address that for my constituent ? secondly , I fully support the plan to move healthcare into community . in Dewsbury , we have a local hospital in the heart of the community that , with the right investment , could serve many more . will the Secretary of State confirm that the Government will build on what we have , rather than fragment it ? finally , Dewsbury and Batley be home to a wonderfully diverse community , but have some of the most deprived neighbourhood , with the associate healthcare inequality . will the Secretary of State agree to visit my constituency so he can hear from my constituent and healthcare professional , and ensure that their challenge be address ? in that constructive spirit , I can assure the hon . Gentleman that those thing be contain in the 10 - year plan for health . these change be only possible because people vote Labour and because we have a Labour Government . in that spirit , he can be assure that in the run - up to the next general election , I will be pound the street of Dewsbury . I call Warinder Juss — not here . I congratulate my right hon . friend , his team and the amazing NHS staff on over - deliver on Labour ' s promise , and for this amazing , ambitious 10 - year plan that will ensure the NHS be fit for the future . I particularly welcome the " my Carer " feature on the NHS app that will allow family and unpaid carer to communicate with the care team for a love one . will my right hon . friend explain how this plan will deliver benefit for disabled people and their carer ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her question : I can tell that she have already read a lot of the plan , not least because she have such a heavy role in shape it , bring her expertise to bear as we be deliberate . I also thank her constituent in Shipley , who take part in the engagement and consultation that she do locally ; I hope they feel that their fingerprint be on this plan . she talk about the " my Carer " feature of the NHS app , which will make an enormous difference . I hope that the people who tend to be heavy user of health service feel that they have more power , choice , agency and control . that have to be true not just for people with physical disability , but people with learn disability . we have to ensure that the NHS be genuinely there for everyone , and that everyone have agency , voice , personalisation , power and control — that be what this plan will deliver . I welcome the 10 - year plan ; its focus on prevention be right . I notice that there be a number of reference to diabetes in the plan , but none to type 1 diabetes . we already have simple blood test for biomarker that identify people who be likely to develop type 1 diabete , and immunotherapy , which can delay onset , be be assess for NHS use . all the component of a national screening system be already there , so we have the opportunity to change how people be diagnose with type 1 diabete and the potential to eliminate life - threaten diabetic ketoacidosis , which can be how people present in hospital and find out that they have get type 1 diabetes . will the Secretary of State clarify if the reference to diabetes screening will be pertinent in relation to type 1 diabete in specific ? will he meet I and the all - party parliamentary group for diabete to learn from italian lawmaker about their national type 1 diabete screen programme ? I give the hon . Gentleman the assurance that we will be deliver on type 1 diabete , as well as type 2 diabete . he be right about the breakthrough in science that allow we to predict and diagnose fast . through its emphasis on technology , the plan will deliver wearable that will enable people to track their blood sugar level in real time and enable insulin to be deploy at precisely the right time , in precisely the right amount , to provide stability , certainty and peace of mind . that will not only be important for adult with type 1 diabete , but for parent who worry about their child . when they send they off to school or to play with friend , they will have the peace of mind that they can monitor their condition , and be reassure that they will be alert if something do not look right . that be the peace of mind that everyone deserve and that be what this plan will deliver . I be sure the relevant Minister will be delighted to meet the APPG . I very much thank the Secretary of State for his statement and the NHS 10 - year plan . as someone who represent one of those rural constituency without an acute hospital , I very much welcome the plan to move from hospital into community . the Conservatives break their promise to deliver a health hub for Buxton in my constituency , and a plan be ready to go . will the Secretary of State meet with I to discuss the opportunity for that plan to deliver for my local constituent ? as soon as my hon . friend get to his foot , I know exactly where the question be go . I be delighted to spend time campaign for he in his constituency , and I know that the focus on neighbourhood health will be particularly welcome to people live in rural community just like his . I would be delighted to meet with he to discuss his proposal , not least because he will hound I relentlessly if I say anything other than yes . in a week that have be quite difficult , it be a real joy to have some good news in the Chamber in the 10 - year plan . I thank the Secretary of State very much for that statement and for the positive fashion in which it be deliver . he say that it will deliver a health plan for all , but I have a quick question in relation to care in the community . patient be take up bed in hospital who can not get home , because the care in the community be not there . there be those who want to go to their home , but the staff be not there to look after they . as the Secretary of State will know , I always try to do thing in a positive fashion . when it come to find and train people , will he consider train through school and college for specific role in care in the community and encourage pupil from a young age to see those as career that they wish to be part of ? I know the Secretary of State will do this , but will he share all that good news with the Minister in the Northern Ireland Assembly ? I can absolutely give the hon . Gentleman that assurance . we will ensure that we be deliver that intermediate care in the community through not just the NHS , but our partner in social care . I have a really good relationship with Mike Nesbitt , my counterpart in Northern Ireland , so I be happy to share our learning there . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to emphasise the importance of ensure that it be not just the son and daughter of doctor , but more working - class people from background such as mine who get to go into medicine . that be exactly what this plan will deliver . it be thank to the Secretary of State and , indeed , our Chancellor that we already anticipate a £ 10 million state - of - the - art health hub in Thanet , which be open this autumn . that will have a community diagnostic centre , expand GP service , podiatry , cardiac and respiratory team , mri and support for mental health . that be exactly what this 10 - year plan be about . I welcome that introduction , especially in a grow community such as Thanet , but what consideration have the Secretary of State give to Chris Whitty ' s report into health in coastal community in the 10 - year plan ? coastal community in particular suffer from high level of poor health and underperform in term of service . I can certainly give my hon . friend the assurance that Chris Whitty ' s work as chief medical officer have a big bearing on our thinking about how we meet the need of rural and coastal community and tackle health inequality . his analysis be clear : we need people not just live long , but live well for long . we need to push illness much later into old age so that people can live life to the full until the very end . that must apply to everyone , not just the privileged few . my hon . friend ' s constituent will really benefit from this plan as well as the new facility come later this year . I really welcome this 10 - year plan , especially the shift from hospital to community . I be excite by the digital transformation , and I hope it work in the broadband blackspot of South Devon . I will ask the Secretary of State about the shift from sickness to prevention . will he tell the House what conversation he have have with the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government and the Treasury about ringfence funding for leisure centre , swimming pool , outdoor education centre , safe cycle route and footpath ? we can do so much more to promote and embed healthy lifestyle , particularly in our child and young people , but it will take investment . we need to spend to save . be that part of the 10 - year plan ? I really welcome that support , and that be an absolutely great question . on the point about connectivity , I will ensure that the Science Secretary receive those representation and don his skinny jean and flip - flop and come down to improve connectivity for her community — he be committed to do that for people right across the country . the hon . Lady be absolutely right : we have to ensure that people in every part of the country have access to all those thing that make life worth live , such as grassroots sport , culture , leisure , recreation , clean air , park and open space . she have my assurance that , work with the Deputy Prime Minister and my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , we will bring those opportunity to everyone , not just the wealthy area or big city . will the Health Secretary outline how the 10 - year plan will quickly deliver on the Government ' s aim to go from an analogue to a digital service ? that be important to Doncaster hospital , which be still on paper record . will he also ensure that the deaf community be consider and that BSL and easy - read material be weave into any digital roll - out ? I can absolutely give my hon . friend that assurance . the great opportunity for technology be that we can design in accessibility ; I have a great meeting here with some of my constituent who suffer from hear loss . we have a great opportunity for the NHS to once again be the great social leveller , provide quality care to everyone , whatever their background , and personalise care that meet their need . we need to have well digital connectivity and AI - enable hospital . my hon . friend ' s constituent will know how hard she bang the drum here for investment in her local hospital , and that be very much on my mind . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement and his previous answer on dentistry , but I will push he a little far . my constituency , along with all of Oxfordshire , be an NHS dental desert . have meet with dental provider , they say that the key to change that be reform the NHS dental contract . I note that the 10 - year plan include a commitment to do that , but no timescale be provide . can the Secretary of State enlighten the House ? yes , I certainly can . the proposal we be consult on represent an important step towards the fundamental reform to the dental contract that we commit to in our manifesto , and that will begin this year . there be no perfect payment model . careful consideration need to be give to any potential change in a complex dental system so that we deliver genuine improvement for patient and the profession , but we be commit to work with the British Dental Association . the Minister for Care , my hon . friend the Member for Aberafan Maesteg ( Stephen Kinnock ) , be work hard to fix the mess leave by the previous Government . on behalf of the small and often oppress community of health policy geek , I thank the Secretary of State for give we a Christmas present in July — I will be press Ctrl + f through it all weekend . I also really thank he and his team for thread through this plan a real commitment to the quality of work for the NHS workforce . I can see already some really strong , concrete suggestion for how we can make the work life of people in the NHS well . most importantly of all , people in Sittingbourne and Sheppey be really glad to see that the idea of a neighbourhood health service be well flesh out . again , with a health policy geek hat on , we know it be the funding and the funding model that really matter , so I really commend the review of the funding formula , particularly towards rural and coastal community . how will the Secretary of State ensure that with this new funding formula , he and his team at the centre will keep a tight grip on what happen at ICB and other level close to the ground to ensure that that funding get to the area with the most need ? I be so grateful to my hon . friend for his support ; as he imply , he bring so much expertise to this place . as we embark in this brave new world of devolution of power , resource and control , we keep a close eye on outcome . I be count on local community , Members of Parliament , mayor , council and local authority also to ensure that we have democratic accountability and oversight to ensure the resource we provide be spend to the good effect and have a real impact . I pay tribute to the policy geek of the world in health and social care for their contribution to this 10 - year plan . health geek of the world , unite ! you have nothing to lose but your chain ! rise — order . some 20 member be still seek to ask question , and we have an important debate to follow . the question be get long , and so , I fear , Minister , be the answer . can I urge brevity again , please ? I also thank my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for a bold and ambitious plan . over the past few month , I have have the privilege of connect with some really inspire people across my constituency , such as Jagdeep Aujla . his Dopamine Warriors box club , which the Secretary of State visit some week ago , set a powerful example . jagdeep ' s box club offer a safe , empower space for people live with Parkinson ' s to connect with each other , maintain their fitness , and slow the progression of the condition . will my right hon . friend outline how the Government ' s 10 - year health plan will support the shift from hospital to community , so that more support be available on people ' s doorstep , particularly organisation such as the Dopamine Warriors ? I be grateful to my hon . friend and parliamentary neighbour for his question . he be right that I recently have the joy of visit Jagdeep and the Dopamine Warriors in my constituency — they do brilliant work , which underscore why we have to work in partnership with community group and the voluntary sector . they provide great support for patient group and their family in a way that would not be nearly so good even if the NHS try to provide it , so I can absolutely assure my hon . friend that that partnership will be at the heart of the 10 - year plan . I also note that he be campaign for an upgrade to the A & e at queen ' s hospital in Romford . as he know , I be not empower to make that decision , but my hon . friend the Minister for Secondary Care will have hear that case . I thank the Secretary of State , because with this NHS plan , ambition be back . that ambition matter to my constituent , who for too many year have see a health service in decline . I bring many of those constituent to a community meeting so that their experience and expertise could be share and feed straight into this plan . could the Secretary of State set out how this plan give power to patient and put they back in the drive seat ? I thank my hon . friend and his constituent for the feedback from that event , which I receive and be reflect in this plan . there be much in the plan about power to the patient — more ease , convenience , choice and control , not just through the app but through a number of mechanism , include new patient power payment that will give patient real bite if they be receive poor - quality care . that be thank to my hon . friend and his constituent . I thank the Secretary of State for the 10 - year plan . move quickly on the dentistry contract be extremely important to my constituent , but I want to raise the fact that , at the moment , parent in my constituency be frightened . they be frightened about how long it take they to get diagnosis for their child , particularly in relation to neurodiversity ; about the lack of support once they do get those diagnosis ; and about the lack of child and adolescent mental health service . they be also frightened that their neurodiverse child be be remove from those service on the basis that autism be apparently regard by some people in our local service as inherently anxiety - creating and therefore child with that diagnosis do not need mental health support . can the Secretary of State tell I how my constituent will benefit from this plan when it come to the support child need with their health ? I thank my hon . friend and her constituent . she hold — I think — four event across her community to feed into this plan , and we really value that feedback . I hope people feel that their fingerprint be on this plan . it set out our ambition to make this the healthy generation of child who ever live , whether that be through well access to mental health support and service , recognise the importance of meeting neurodiverse need , or the focus on physical activity , good diet , nutrition and access to sport , medium and culture for everyone , especially child from the most disadvantaged background . I hope the plan reflect the ambition we hear from my hon . friend ' s constituent . I congratulate the Secretary of State and his entire team on their hard work — this document be outstanding , and I look forward to implement it across Stafford , Eccleshall and the village . my constituent participate in three consultation event to feed into this project , so it be really important that patient voice be all over it . a specific concern that come through be that 450 system be use in Stafford hospital for digitisation and patient record , and they do not talk to each other , which be lead to discrepancy in patient care . can the Secretary of State give I more information about how the improvement in digitisation will improve patient care on the frontline ? I thank my hon . friend for her support , and her constituent for give up their time to take part in those event , which feed directly into the plan . I hope they see their input reflect in the result . she be quite right that we need to fix those basic system and make sure that people across different part of the NHS be able to interface and join up care around the patient . the capital and tech investment ringfence by the Chancellor will have a really big impact , and I hope my hon . friend ' s patient and NHS staff will begin to feel that impact . I put on record my thank to the Secretary of State for his statement today , and to the Chancellor for the financial and economic work she have put in . Labour member know that govern well be a team sport , and it be when people in government work together that we succeed well for the people we seek to serve . despite the good effort of important surgery such as Thistlemoor in my constituency , too many part of Peterborough be leave out as a result of two challenge . the first be the postcode lottery ; too many thing seem to happen in other part of our county , and we know that work - class community be too often leave behind . the second challenge be that the NHS be just too complex . even when we have service in the community , people struggle to know which bit to access — be it the pharmacist , the GP surgery , or the hospital ? can the Secretary of State confirm that the 10 - year plan will seek to simplify the system , and to put patient in the drive seat and bureaucracy in the bin ? I can absolutely give my hon . friend that reassurance . it be about time that we design care around the patient , rather than ask the patient to do the run around on behalf of the NHS . that will be a big shift in practice and culture . of course , as my hon . Friend say , it be only thank to the decision take by the Chancellor that we be able to match the reform and ambition of this plan with the investment we need . that be why I be delighted to be join not just by the Prime Minister , but by my right hon . friend the Chancellor this morning in Stratford to kick off the 10 - year plan — not least because she be the one who pay the bill , and we be very grateful to she for it . one of the issue with the health service that my constituent most often ask I about be the struggle to get basic appointment . that be lead people to the hospital , which be unable to cope with the sheer number , and in a populous , fast - grow borough , that be create unsustainable pressure . as such , I welcome my right hon . friend ' s remark about the move from hospital to community . do he agree that get primary care right be at the centre of get the NHS right , and can he assure my constituent that they will get what they want : appointment when they need they , as they need they , in their local community ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend — I know his constituency well , and he have be a powerful voice for his constituent since he arrive in this place . he be absolutely right that we need good general practice and accessible neighbourhood health service that be available to everyone , especially in area of high need and health inequality , as we see in the London borough of Newham . I hope his constituent really feel the impact of this plan as we roll it out during this Parliament and across the next decade . the Secretary of State mention community health team in Cornwall take service directly to people , even in their home . I be so pleased with the focus on how to deliver healthcare in sparsely populate rural and coastal area . can the Secretary of State confirm that this focus will run through the 10 - year plan , so that across the country people can access care as equally as possible at local level — and specialist service such as robotic surgery and mental health emergency hub — no matter where they live ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . I have be delighted to spend time with she in her constituency to make sure that this Government understand the need of every part of the country and different type of community . we need to ensure that , when we think about health service , the pitch we have in our mind ' s eye be meet the need not just of big city or large town , but of rural and coastal community that have be leave behind for too long . I hope that my hon . friend ' s constituent will really feel the benefit of the innovation that be at the heart of this 10 - year plan , and of the focus on community service and neighbourhood health . from what they have see so far , they can trust that if we do not deliver for they , my hon . friend will be the first to tell we . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement today . I welcome the move to community delivery , great accountability of provider and icb , and power to the patient . as a research scientist — I declare an interest as an unpaid visit researcher at the Francis Crick Institute — I welcome the recognition of the need for scientist and diagnostic to get ahead of disease . what conversation have the Secretary of State have , and what action have he take , with the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence and other regulatory body in relation to the amazing new technology , device and drug and how we can get they into the NHS fast ? we be so lucky to have my hon . friend ' s scientific expertise on our Benches , and we be also lucky that , despite be elect , she be do research on behalf of the country in her spare time — goodness know where she find it . we welcome her public service . we need to see investment in new medicine and technology as an investment rather than a cost . that be how we deliver well care , well value for taxpayer and well outcome , and it be how we close health inequality . this be the most exciting revolution take place in the world , and it be happen right here in England . we have get to make sure that the NHS benefit from it . this weekend will mark the 77th anniversary of the national health service , and I take this opportunity to thank all NHS staff at Stepping Hill hospital in Stockport . I pay tribute to the work of the British Dental Association , because week in , week out , member from all part of the House receive correspondence on NHS dentistry and the lack of it . I take this opportunity to invite the Secretary of State to visit Stockport . I know that he come to Bury often , so when he be up in Greater Manchester , will he join I in Stockport to speak to patient , parent and frontline dental staff about the crisis ? my hon . friend be right about the importance of dental service , and I hope that his constituent begin to feel the benefit . I also know he be lead the charge on the campaign for Stepping Hill hospital . he regularly raise it with I and other Ministers , and I would be delighted to try to visit his constituency as soon as my diary allow . I thank the Secretary of State for this welcome news . the Sir Robert Peel centre , part of the University Hospitals of Derby and Burton NHS trust , be now run at full throttle , with a range of diagnostic service and treatment option . I congratulate the trust and the Minister on open that community diagnostic centre , which , as part of the NHS 10 - year plan , will transform life and access to speedy healthcare . will he celebrate this hospital ' s transformation to unlock more than 1 , 000 treatment a week in Tamworth and the village ? I be so grateful to my hon . friend for that question , as it give I the chance to say an enormous thank you to everyone involve . I hope that people be begin to feel the benefit and will see the change that come from have a great Labour MP and a Labour Government who deliver the change that our country desperately need . my constituent raise issue with access the NHS , particularly local gps and primary service , at every chance they have . I welcome the bold , big ambition of this 10 - year health strategy . can the Secretary of State outline how it will make a big difference in our small town and village ? neighbourhood health can not just be about large town and city . it have to meet the need of every community , and the approach we be take , with care close to home or , indeed , in the home will benefit everyone , but it will disproportionately benefit people such as those in my hon . friend ' s constituency . that be the benefit of have a great Labour MP like she and a Labour Government deliver result . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement and the 10 - year plan , which I welcome . I be already see the benefit of this Government ' s commitment to reform the NHS in my constituency , with a second linear accelerator radiotherapy machine come to Southend hospital and investment in four of my GP surgery , with new space be develop for more appointment . as he know , however , I care greatly about man ' s mental health . how do this 10 - year plan begin to address the challenge we face in that area ? I be delighted with the work that my hon . friend be do to assist we with the development of a new man ' s health strategy , include a focus on man ' s mental health , which he have raise so powerfully on more than one occasion in this House . I hope he will be pleased with the result . by work closely with he , voluntary sector organisation and the NHS , we will make sure we get it right . I hugely welcome the NHS 10 - year plan , and its recognition that victim of domestic abuse be more likely to experience bad nhs access and bad outcome , and will die young . domestic abuse cost the NHS £ 2 . 3 billion a year . will the Secretary of State agree to work with Standing together and other domestic abuse charity to ensure that the NHS treat domestic abuse as the public health emergency that it be ? I be so grateful to my hon . friend for that question , and for the expertise she bring to the House on this issue . she be absolutely right : it be the NHS ' s responsibility to meet the need of everyone , whatever their background and whatever the circumstance of their requirement for access to the NHS . that be so often where eye first spot the telltale sign of violence against woman and girl and domestic abuse . it be not the job of the Home Office to tackle this issue ; it be the job of all of we across Government . she have my assurance that I will work closely with my right hon . friend the Home Secretary to make sure that the NHS play its part in keep woman and girl safe , alive and well . I warmly welcome the Government ' s 10 - year plan . it be a proud day to sit on these Benches . I also welcome the Government ' s commitment to rebuild Frimley Park hospital in my community in wave 1 of the new hospital programme . the brilliant staff there , who be currently work in a hospital riddle with reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete , deserve that more than anyone . can the Secretary of State help I out by bring to life what healthcare will look like for people in my community of Aldershot , Farnborough , Blackwater , Hawley and Yateley over the next decade as a result of this plan ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for that question , and to her constituent for take part in her local engagement event . this plan will ensure that more people receive the right care in the right place at the right time . it will deliver more neighbourhood health service under one roof , and more choice , convenience , power and control over healthcare . it will deliver access and support at the touch of a button , and personalise care . we be completely change how we deliver healthcare in this century and meet the need of everyone . think particularly about her constituency , we be make sure that we be support our armed force , veteran and their family , so that they receive great outcome , thank to a great Labour MP in Aldershot and a Labour Government who deliver . I know that she will hold our foot to the fire to make sure that we deliver . I thank the Health Secretary for his statement , and I promise not to lobby he too much on the potential move of the UK Health Security Agency to Harlow , although perhaps I should also lobby for a neighbourhood health centre . instead , can I ask he to set out how the 10 - year plan will ensure a shift from sickness to prevention ? medical professional in my local hospital , the Princess Alexandra , emphasise that issue when I meet they recently . my hon . friend be right that we need to not just treat sickness , but prevent illness . that be a strong message that we get from the public . he will see lot of good stuff on prevention in the plan , and I know that he will welcome it . on the location of the UK Health Security Agency , he may have inadvertently mislead the House : he say he do not want to lobby I too much , but that be absolutely not true ; he will not leave I alone on this issue . he lobby I every single day . I can assure he we will make a decision on that issue shortly . I be sure that the hon . member for Harlow will wish to correct the record . I welcome the 10 - year plan , and I thank the Secretary of State for give my constituent in Watford the opportunity to feed into it through the consultation . do he agree that the Tories accept decline in the NHS as inevitable , but it take a Labour Government to get the NHS back on its foot ? absolutely , and the people of Watford can see the difference a Labour Government can make , thank to their send a Labour MP to the House . they see what happen when they send a Tory , and they can not send a liberal Democrat to this place and trust they to deliver . they need a Labour Government to deliver Labour change . I be delighted that my hon . friend be here , and we be make a real difference together . thank to the engagement event he hold with his constituent in Watford , their idea be reflect in this plan . that be thank to their hard work and his advocacy . it fall on each Labour Government to reform and renew the NHS in the service of patient , and that include mental health patient ; from my consultation , I know that they be a key priority for the people of Sunderland Central . I welcome the plan ' s emphasis on empower patient by provide they with information and choice through the NHS app , include on wait time , but the Secretary of State will know that information about mental health waiting time be often poor , as be the waiting time themselves . in the 10 - year plan , will he commit to make sure that empowerment apply equally to people seek mental health service and those seek physical health service ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we in this place be so lucky to have his expertise and his leadership of the Back - Bench health and social care committee of the parliamentary Labour party . sunlight be the good disinfectant , and I be concerned that we do not give enough profile to paediatric wait and mental health wait . with more transparency , information and access , we will be able to demonstrate improvement over the course of this Parliament and the next decade . family affect by fail maternity service be ignore for far too long , and we have a system of accountability that be break . I be pleased that the Secretary of State ' s plan have a strong focus on patient outcome and experience , and that maternity care will be at the forefront . I be also pleased to see that the single patient record will be roll out in maternity service first . it be vital that woman feel hear and see throughout their pregnancy journey , and that crucial information no long fall through the crack of numerous system that do not sync up . I express my heartfelt thank to the Secretary of State for really listen , for speak to family across the country , and for come to Nottinghamshire twice . I can honestly say that his reaction move I . not only be he listen ; he care and be determined that thing will change , and they will . as chair of the APPG on maternity , and as a harmed mother , I thank he . can he tell I a bit more about how maternity service will be incorporate into his plan for a neighbourhood health service ? I be so grateful to my hon . friend for all the work she do as chair of the all - party parliamentary group , for the personal and professional experience that she bring to this House , and for the wisdom , advice and insight that she have offer to help I make well decision . I be absolutely determined to work with family , especially those who have suffer such grave injustice at the hand of the NHS . it be a wonderful institution , but sometimes when it fail , it fail spectacularly . the culture of denial and cover - up can not be allow to persist , and I will work with my hon . friend to make sure that we end it . on neighbourhood health , it be so important that we engage with family early , especially where they may be at great risk of complicated pregnancy or harm , because we know this be an area of grotesque health inequality . after birth , it be really important that we have strong health visit , and care in the community and the home that do not just consider the interest of the baby , but ask question of the mother . how be she feel ? how be she recover ? be her partner cope ? we have to look at the whole family , and I be sure we will get it right . I be determined to get this right , and it will be in no small part thank to my hon . friend ' s leadership and support . I thank the Secretary of State for both his statement and the 10 - year plan . I be delighted that resident in Dartford be able to play a full part in shape its priority through our consultation meeting in February . they will be really pleased to see not only the additional GP appointment , but the pressure be take off their local hospital , dare not Valley , through the provision of well and more community service . the hospital be design with a much small community in mind and be now suffer the consequence . can the Secretary of State give I an idea of the pace of the roll - out of neighbourhood health centre ? we could certainly do with one in Dartford . I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question — representation duly receive . I reassure he that one of the way we will ease the pressure valve on our hospital be by do more neighbourhood health . that help to drive admission avoidance , speed up delay discharge , and get much more effective flow of patient through hospital . that be our commitment . we aim to roll out 40 to 50 neighbourhood health centre over the course of this Parliament , and if we can go fast , we will . I have no doubt that my hon . friend , as a strong representative for Dartford , will make more representation to we shortly . I thank the Secretary of State and everyone involve in create this well - design and excellent 10 - year plan . there be so much good stuff in it , but I particularly like the approach of shift treatment from hospital to neighbourhood and home . many of my constituent in Stevenage have be take to Lister hospital when they do not want or need to be there , but we have an alternative . the Minister for Social Care and my hon . friend the Member for Welwyn Hatfield ( Andrew Lewin ) recently join I on a visit to the Hertfordshire community NHS trust ' s " hospital at home " service . be that something that the Secretary of State and the health team be determined to roll out ? I can give my hon . friend that assurance . the change will mean that people in Stevenage start to feel real improvement in their ability to access the NHS . of course , that be in no small part thank to this country ' s amazing life science sector , which have its beat heart in Stevenage . I add my congratulation to my right hon . friend , his team and NHS staff , who have put this plan together so that the NHS do not just survive but thrive . last weekend , I meet a family in Winsford who , that morning , have receive a bill of £ 180 , 000 for their mother ' s care . the daughter say to I , " Andrew , I don ' t know how I can possibly pay this . " the previous Government fail to get a grip on the issue . the plan that the Secretary of State have set out to increase carer ' s allowance and the disabled facility grant will make a big difference , as will the introduction of fair pay agreement across the adult social care sector . can he confirm that he will do everything he can to accelerate and implement the outcome of Baroness Casey ' s cross - party commission , so that the issue be resolve once and for all ? I can certainly give my hon . friend that assurance . it be precisely because of example of the sort that he have share with the House that we have to get this right , so that we relieve family of such catastrophic care cost . just as the nhs replace fear with high - quality care for all , we have to alleviate the fear of family who require care , because the situation that he describe blight too many family across our country . may I briefly commend the Health Secretary for his comment on the morning medium about event in this place yesterday ? Empathy be in short supply in politic , and we could do with a bit more of it . I really welcome the 10 - year health plan , and specifically the focus on outcome and the transformation of the NHS into a neighbourhood health service , complete with health centre . the plan state the criterion for decide the first location of these health centre : they will be the area with the great need . will the Health Secretary expand on that criterion , and perhaps tell I what I need to do to get a health centre for Leeds South West and Morley ? I know exactly where that question be go , because my hon . friend have be such a strong champion of his constituency since he arrive in this place . I be committed to roll out neighbourhood health across the country , and to make sure that we particularly benefit the community with the great need that be the most poorly serve . this be in no small part possible thank to the leadership of the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the wise decision that she have take . not only have we deliver investment in the NHS , but interest rate have fall four time , wage be finally rise at a high rate than the cost of living , and we have the fast - grow economy in the G7 . that be the leadership that we need from the Chancellor , and it be here to stay . finally , and with thank for his patience , I call Richard Baker . thank you very much , Mr Deputy Speaker — persistence pay off . will my right hon . friend assure I that he will report regularly to this House on progress against this excellent plan ? I hope that will help we to evidence the case for investment in community health facility in Scotland , which have long be promise but not be deliver by the SNP , include the much - need new health centre in Lochgelly in my constituency . I can absolutely give my hon . friend that assurance . I just feel so sorry for he , because he come here to stand up for his constituent , know full well that while they have a Labour Government who be deliver the big increase in investment to the devolved Administrations since devolution begin , the SNP , which have be in government for almost two decade , be squander the money and the opportunity . People will not get change in his constituency , or across the rest of Scotland , if they face more of the same from the SNP . Scotland need an alternative , and Scotland ' s NHS need an alternative . that alternative be Scottish Labour and the leadership of Anas Sarwar and Jackie Baillie , and it can not come soon enough . may I thank the Secretary of State for answer in excess of 65 question , and the shadow Secretary of State for be in attendance throughout the entire proceeding ? british Film and high - end Television Culture , Media and Sport Committee Select Committee statement we now come to the Select Committee statement on behalf of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee . Dame Caroline Dinenage will speak for up to 10 minute , during which time no intervention may be take . at the conclusion of her statement , I shall call member to ask question on the subject of the statement . these should be brief question , not full speech . I emphasise that question should be direct to the Select Committee Chair , not the relevant Government Minister . however , Front Benchers may take part in questioning . I be grateful to the Backbench Business Committee for make time for this statement . in April , the Culture , Media and Sport Committee , which I be very honoured to chair , publish its report on british film and high - end television , and this sector be absolutely thriving . we have world - class facility at Pinewood and Leavesden , where the inward investment mean film that could be make anywhere be be make here in the UK . the development of Crown Works Studios in Sunderland ensure not just that film making be happen in London and the south - east , but that the money be spread out to our region , where we have enormous talent . on our screen , there be fantastic show such as " Adolescence " , " Doctor who " and " Rivals " — something for everybody — share british story around the world . in cinema , british talent and location in movie such as " the Salt Path " and " the Ballad of Wallis Island " , which I be tell be fantastic , be make such an impact . however , this be a fragile industry . it have do so much to rebound from the difficulty of the covid pandemic , but the US strike in 2023 show we just how reliant the UK industry be on inward investment and how vulnerable it be . we can not take this success for grant . it be hard - earn and it must be protect . our inquiry be launch in the summer of 2023 . it come 20 year after the last major Committee inquiry report on the state of british film , which with the willingness of successive government and huge engagement from the sector , have shape policy for the last two decade . however , it be in need of an update , so our Select Committee hear from film maker , cinema , industry body and those work on skill in the sector . the previous Government acknowledge some of the issue we have begin to raise about low - budget british film and vfx — visual effect — tax credit , but last year ' s general election leave the inquiry on a cliffhanger , with many in the industry desperate for a sequel . we do not want to leave audience disappoint , so with a new look Committee of excellent new member , we have bring back the inquiry on the crisis in british high - end tv , the benefit and challenge of artificial intelligence , and the work of the British Film Institute and the Government . our report make 35 recommendation to the Government and the BFI . I will not test your patience , Madam Deputy Speaker , by go through they all , but base on evidence from across the industry , we propose a comprehensive plan to support inward investment , champion british content and independent film making , drive up skill , support people to stay in the sector , help our cinema and protect our incredible screen heritage . admittedly , some of these recommendation be really bold . we support the call of eminent creator such as the fantastic producer and director Peter Kosminsky for a levy on streamer subscription to help fund british content . other recommendation be comparatively small but important , such as invite the Government to review the effectiveness of their incentive for the sector , or work with the BFI for a screen heritage strategy . in the meantime , the Government have publish their creative industry sector plan , which happily make film and tv a priority as one of their first frontier sector . they have give a welcome uplift to the UK global screen fund , which our Committee recommend . they have also announce a new capital fund for the National Film and Television School , which will contribute some , if not all , of the skill we need . Madam Deputy Speaker , if like I you have be to the cinema recently , you will have see the trailer for the summer blockbuster come up , and be a bit frustrated that the good bit have all be show in the trailer , and that be where we be with the Government response . the area where the Government agree with the Committee and have take decisive action be the only new announcement in the sector plan . on everything else , the Creative Industries Minister , who can not be here for this statement , be at risk of be the villain . he might be call the Government ' s very own Dr no . in the time I have leave , I will go through where we think the Government have get it wrong . they simply do not share our ambition for this sector , and have not acknowledge the real anxiety those in sector have express and the support they have ask for . the Government agree with our Committee that we must ensure the resilience of domestic production and protect our domestic workforce , but they do not seem to have the answer on how to do so . they have fail to recognise the value of research and development in the creative art , and that it should be treat in the same way as R & D for science and technology . they have ignore the concern raise by film maker about access to the enterprise investment scheme and the seed enterprise investment scheme . they have ignore our proposal for a print and advertising tax relief , which would drive investment in our cinema and independent film . they have refuse to require a regional breakdown of production spending , which would help the Government ensure that the benefit of these tax credit be share right across the UK , and we have phenomenal skill and great story to tell around the UK . the Government ' s welcome extra funding for the UK global screen fund be temper by a refusal to engage with industry call to rejoin Creative Europe . on skill , they have rule out statutory reporting on spending in the sector , despite the unwillingness of some big player in the industry to be open and transparent about what they be give back . there be hope that the growth and skill levy will be more suitable for the creative industry — the apprenticeship levy currently be not work — but there be very little new information , and I know the sector be concern that the Treasury may weaken the proposal for a levy that work for the sector . the Government ' s proposal for a freelance champion be good as far as it go , but it be very light on detail and a long way from the freelancer ' commissioner that we have repeatedly ask for . although the debate on AI and copyright have move on somewhat from our ping - pong on the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill , the Government have reject or ignore a raft of proposal that would have protect the intellectual property and the moral right of our creative artist . I know minister care deeply about our creative industry , and the Government have make a commitment to they with the sector plan , but I be concerned that while they call british film and tv a frontier sector , so many of our recommendation , base on really clear and compelling evidence from the sector , have just be dismiss or ignore . there be a question whether the Department for Culture , Media and Sport think our recommendation be wrong , or it just do not have the clout with the Treasury to make they happen . I know the Minister can not be here , but I also know how he love a cultural pun , so in the hope that he will be watch this back , it would be a shame not to take this opportunity to say that we have great expectation for the Government ' s response but , rather than offer we the full monty , we be leave brasse off . the Minister will be before our Committee next week for a brief encounter to discuss the creative industry sector plan . we be not rival ; we want to work with the Government in the line of duty to get the most for this sector . there be some time for they to add a little sense and sensibility , or perhaps some atonement . if so , rather than be wicked , the Minister could end up as british film ' s local hero . I commend this statement to the House . I thank the hon . Lady for her statement and her Committee for its work on this important area . I also thank she for mention the Crown Works Studios site , which be in my constituency , so she will understand why I be such a proud champion of our regional film and screen industry . the Select Committee ' s inquiry recommend some regional element to tax incentive , and — understandably , I think — the Government response say that those will be consider at fiscal event . do she agree that there be a very strong case for a specific regional element of tax incentive for the film and screen industry , give its current concentration in the south - east despite the potential for growth in area such as Sunderland and the north - east ? the hon . Gentleman make such an important point . we have remarkable skill around the UK , but when we go into sixth form in any of our constituency and speak to the young people there , we find few who be consider a career in film and tv . yet if we look at the thing they be study , we see that the film and tv industry have a demand for all of they . carpenter , hairdresser , accountant , technician , engineer and computer designer would all have a place — a job — in the industry , yet the young people may not think of it . we need to ensure that the opportunity for british film and high - end tv be understand and nurture in every corner of our country , because we have the idea , the skill and the phenomenal track record , and the Government must do everything they can to harness those and make sure we be benefit from they . I congratulate my hon . friend on her report and her wonderful statement , as well as on all the work that have go into the report behind the scene . public service broadcaster be struggle to compete with the massive budget set by streamer , so what more can be do to ensure we see high - quality british drama and comedy on terrestrial television ? my hon . friend hit the nail on the head . this be one of the big question underline our whole inquiry . the cost of make content have rise so much , it be price so many of our british psb out of the market . we hear from Peter Kosminsky , the director of " Wolf Hall " , that it simply could not be make today and that " the Mirror and the Light " be only make because some of the key people on it work for free . we can not carry on like that . we need our british story to be hear around the world . we have see some fantastic streamer make great content , such as " Black Doves " and " one Day " which do tell british story , but our psb do they well than ever and we need to ensure they be get the right funding . we have make some quite radical recommendation , such as expand access to tax credit and a levy on streamer , which be particularly contentious . we will continue to push for some of those recommendation . the Minister be appear in front of we next week and we will keep ask he these question , because we need to protect our psb and ensure they be tell our great british story for year to come . early this year , " Tinsel Town " be film in Knaresborough . the benefit of see the film industry come to my constituency be clearly apparent from the get go . it have give a real buzz and excitement to the local community . I would like to see more on the regional investment side . Channel 4 be headquarter in Leeds just down the road from Harrogate . will the hon . Lady elaborate on how we would be well set to monitor and regulate to see the benefit of tv and film studio in our region ? one thing we be ask for be for streamer in particular to be feed back on how much of their money they be spend on skill and the regional impact of the investment they be make . we know that it can make such a difference to a local area , as the hon . Gentleman say . when something be film in one of his town or city , it shine a fantastic light and put that place in focus . it also tell story that resonate completely with our resident and inspire an entire new generation to work on those story but also to create they in future . I congratulate my hon . friend on her statement and on the report she have produce . to succeed , great british film also need a good audience . will my hon . friend tell we what she think of the Government ' s support for local and regional cinema ? that be a really important question . the Committee make a recommendation base on the conversation we have , support by the Film Distributors ' Association , for a tax relief for print and advertising of film . the Government have not respond to that , but it be really important . if we be to support british film to be make , and the Government have bring forward tax credit for independent british film with a low budget , we still need audience to know that they be out there for they to be support to get into our local cinema . local cinema have suffer as well , particularly during the pandemic . we need they to be able to stay open . they be vital part of our local community . this whole ecosystem depend on have cinema that be flourish and functioning , and british story be tell in our cinema . help the print and advertising aspect of that story really be very important . we be very disappointed that the Government do not accept that recommendation . I congratulate my hon . friend on the ingenuity of her statement . I be tempt to ask she if she be offer a prize to the first person to identify all the film title she smuggle into it . could she perhaps enlarge a bit on one of the more disappointing response , as negative as it be , from the Government to which she refer ? that be the recommendation that the Government should at least conduct research into the possibility of a statutory deposit scheme for the move image , which I assume be a bit like have a copyright library for film in which every film get deposit . although I appreciate the limit on capacity of the BFI , would research such a possible scheme not be a positive move to the advantage of posterity ? my right hon . friend represent the New Forest , which , with its great beauty , be a remarkable setting for so many of our british film and tv show . he be absolutely right that the BFI do a remarkable job . the Select Committee visit its archive to see the collection of british film and tv content go back decade , right from the advent of film production , and to see the remarkable skill it have in be able to bring some of that really old film content back into use . this be part of our heritage . we need to do everything we can to ensure we be protect it and invest in it , and ensure that people have the skill to look after our film history in future , so we be really disappointed with that particular aspect of the Government ' s response to our recommendation . I thank the hon . Lady and the Select Committee very much . we be quite excited about what we be do in Northern Ireland , where the Assembly be promote the film and tv sector . they be all do well , with job create and the economy boost . on work together — we be not in competition with each other ; we be try to work in partnership — have she have the opportunity to speak to the relevant Minister , and perhaps the sector , in Northern Ireland to ascertain what they be do , because I always believe that the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland always work well together and that we can do the same in this sector ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . the Northern Ireland film and tv sector have be hugely successful , notably for " Game of Thrones " and I think that " Line of Duty " be shoot there , too . it have have phenomenal success , again base on remarkable skill . I have not have the opportunity to speak to the Northern Ireland Government , but I really would like to because , as he say , there be plenty of work for everyone . we have british story that be there to be tell in every single corner of the British Isles . we need to make sure we be promote our british film and tv industry , so we can keep tell those story . I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for her statement . I think she fail to get " bend it like Beckham " into her list and my constituent Nick Manzi will be very disappointed in she for that . Backbench Business Women ' s State Pension age : Financial Redress [ relevant document : oral evidence take before the Work and Pensions Committee on 29 January , on DWP ' s Annual Report and Accounts , HC 688 ; oral evidence take before the Work and Pensions Committee on 22 January , on Pensioner Poverty : challenge and mitigation , HC 465 ; and write evidence from the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman to the Work and Pensions Committee , on Pensioner Poverty : challenge and mitigation , report to the House on 26 February , HC 465 . ] I beg to move , that this House note the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman ' s ( PHSO ) report on Women ' s State Pension Age , HC 638 , publish in March 2024 , which find that maladministration in the Department for Work and Pensions ( DWP ) communication about the Pensions Act 1995 result in complainant lose opportunity to make informed decision about some thing and to do some thing differently , and diminish their sense of personal autonomy and financial control ; further note that there will likely be a significant number of woman bear in the 1950 who have suffer injustice because of maladministration in DWP ' s communication about the Pensions Act 1995 ; and also note that , give the scale of the impact of DWP ' s maladministration , and the urgent need for a remedy , the PHSO take the rare but necessary step of ask Parliament to intervene , lay their report before Parliament under section 10 ( 3 ) of the Parliamentary Commissioner Act 1967 and ask Parliament to identify a mechanism for provide appropriate remedy for those who have suffer injustice . follow last night ' s horrific news , I just want to send my deep condolence to the family of Diogo Jota and his brother , and to the city of Liverpool . I would like to pay tribute to the thousand of fearless woman who have be campaign relentlessly to secure justice on this matter for decade now , and to remember all those woman who have die wait for justice . my personal thank go to the campaign group who have provide briefing to the all - party parliamentary group on state pension inequality for woman , include CASPI , WASPI , WASPI 2018 , CEDAWinLAW , Pension Partners 4 Justice , Pension United , WASPI Scotland and 1950 woman of Wales , as well as many individual who have be in touch . my thank also go to the Backbench Business Committee for allow this debate , and to numerous colleague across the House who have be instrumental in campaign for the woman and in securing today ' s debate . as Lord Bryn Davies , co - chair of the APPG and a pension expert , state : " the UK ' s pension system be design for man , by man . it systematically favour man , with the result that they receive high state pension and even high private pension . hence , the gender pension gap . the only feature that favour woman be that the National Insurance pension be pay to woman from aged 60 , whereas it be pay to man from aged 65 . " but in 2010 , that single advantage be take away , without consultation and without regard to the other factor that mean woman of that era be bad off financially and end up with bad pension . that be bad enough . what be bad , though , be that they be not even tell about it . many woman be leave destitute ; some even lose their home . these woman be already disadvantaged and discriminate against . they begin work in an era when it be legal to pay female worker less than man , and often step out of the workforce to raise family or look after love one because there be no wraparound care , lose out on not only pay stamp but pay into a private pension . overnight , these disgraceful change be dump on they without their knowledge . many have already hand in their notice at work , and in many case they be force to exist on meagre welfare benefit that leave they live a hand - to - mouth existence . hundred of woman begin to raise the alarm . when the previous Government fail to take action , they escalate their complaint to the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman , which begin a lengthy investigation span year , although it choose to focus on a sample of only six case . its report , publish in March last year , uncover internal Department for Work and Pensions memo from 2005 show that official know that considerable number of woman be unaware of the plan change . while many woman feel that the report do not go far enough on suggest redress , and that it be too limited in the case that it assess , it confirm what the woman already know : that they have suffer injustice , that the DWP be guilty of maladministration in fail to properly communicate change , and that redress be duly owe . when the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions respond to the report in December , there be genuine hope that the scandal would finally end — it be there , in black and white . sadly , it do not , and woman be leave shocked and angry . while the government agree with the finding of maladministration and apologise , no redress would be forthcoming . far , contrary to the ombudsman , they actually feel that the majority of woman do know about change to their pension age , base on Department for Work and Pensions research , and that send the woman letter would not have be effective , which I be sure most people would agree be bizarre . it be pretty effective when people receive a bill address to they through their door , or a letter about a hospital appointment . it be also pretty effective on the very rare but joyous occasion that his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs give people a tax rebate cheque . so , honestly , why would 1950 - bear woman have actively refuse to open letter with their name on from the DWP ? it make no sense . the hon . Lady be make a powerful speech . what she say reflect some of the conversation I have have with WASPI woman in my constituency about not only the distress this have cause they , but how so many of they simply do not receive the correspondence that they have be tell they do receive over the year about the financial situation that be come down the track . the hon . Lady point out that the PHSO report find maladministration , and that despite promise to address it in all their communication before the general election , the Government say that it be too burdensome to compensate on a flat scale . when that announcement be make , I ask the Secretary of State what else could be do to support these woman , many of whom have really struggle as a result of this decision . I do not receive a particularly forthcoming response , so I wonder whether the hon . Lady have have any more joy in find out what the Government be go to do to support these woman if they can not bring forward the financial support on which so many of they have miss out . the hon . Lady have be a formidable campaigner for these woman . in answer to her question , no , I have not have any joyous information from the Government as of yet , which be why we be here today . I will outline why I think the Government ' s statement and response to the ombudsman ' s report be misinformed . while I understand the financial difficulty the Government face , option be available , and cost should never be a barrier to address injustice . many of the campaign group be clear that the statistic use by Government to justify no redress be misquote and misinformed , paint a picture that be completely at odd with the experience of thousand of impact woman , as the hon . member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) have outline , the ombudsman ' s finding and the result of independent research . research by the Department for Work and Pensions in 2003 show that only 43 % of all woman affect by the change know that their state pension age be change . the research itself even comment that : " this low figure provide cause for concern and show that information about the increase in SPA be not reach the group of individual who arguably have the great need to be inform . " independent research , include a focus group study by Age UK from as late as 2011 , have also find that many woman believe that they be still go to retire with a state pension at 60 . far , the ombudsman ' s report also focus on the continue failure of the DWP to recognise and respond to this research and feedback . indeed , this point be flag by the Work and Pensions Committee in 2013 and the National Audit Office in 2016 , but the DWP still fail to take any meaningful action . I pay tribute to the hon . Lady for her leadership of this campaign . the situation be bad still than she paint it to be , for the ombudsman make clear that the " DWP have clearly indicate that it will refuse to comply " with the ombudsman ' s recommendation , invite Parliament to step in to resolve the matter . this be officialdom closing rank , be it not ? the right hon . Gentleman have be a formidable campaigner for the woman affect and an ally in the campaign in this House . he be correct . I will explain in a moment how unprecedented it be for a Government to reject the ombudsman ' s recommendation in this way , and how dangerous it be , in fact , for our democracy and for citizen ' ability to hold their government to account . I will turn back to the statistic that the Government rely on in their response to the ombudsman ' s report . instead of the clear finding that I have outline , the Government rely on abstract figure from research carry out in 2004 and 2006 by the Department for Work and Pensions , which suggest that 73 % and 90 % , respectively , of woman bear in the 1950 know that their own state pension age be increase , but that be not correct . I must flag this with the Minister for clarity : the question ask in the survey be crucial . it be , " do you know that the broad state pension age be due to increase at some point in the future ? " . it be not , " do you know that your own state pension age be go to increase ? " . it be wrong , in my view , to make the assertion that 73 % and 90 % of woman know that their state pension age be change , because the fact prove that they simply do not . next , when an ombudsman make recommendation to Government , as the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) have allude to , the usual course of action be for the Government to accept they . far , on this occasion , the ombudsman make the incredibly rare decision to lodge its report before Parliament , not before the Department for Work and Pensions , which it do because , base on its dealing with the DWP , it already fear and know that the report would be ignore . it be clear that the ombudsman realise this be an important issue , and that it want Government to listen . there have be only eight other occasion where the ombudsman have feel the need to put down a special report in this way , the first be in 1978 . all result in the full implementation of the recommendation save one , the Earl report . in that case , the Environment Agency still comply with three out of the four recommendation , and on the fourth implement an alternative compensation offer . I can not stress enough that the decision to reject the ombudsman ' s recommendation in full be unprecedented , and be , in fact , dangerous , as it set a precedent that regardless of what an independent adjudicator recommend concern state - level injustice , the Government can now ignore they . it strip away one of the only lever that citizen have to hold the Government of the time to account . all the amazing campaign group that we in this House work with be clear : this have be a state injustice . it have cause significant harm to these woman , and while welcome , a limited Government apology be , without any material redress , not acceptable for a grave injustice that have drive so many into debt or poverty . I thank the hon . Lady for give way and congratulate she on secure this debate today . she have be a very powerful advocate for the WASPI campaigner not just in England and Wales , but in Scotland , too , and that be recognise by they . do she agree that over recent week we have see that where there be a will , there be way ? if her colleague on the Labour Benches be to use their new - find power , perhaps we could find a way of get the Government to right this historic and grievous wrong . I thank the hon . member for his suggestion . he be a fantastic campaigner for 1950s woman in Scotland and have do an enormous amount of work in this House to support their cause . as I say early , we all recognise the difficulty that the Government face . they inherit a difficult financial situation , but that be no excuse to deny these woman justice . financial option be available , some of which I shall outline , and some of which my colleague will outline , too . as well as refute the finding of the ombudsman , the Government cite cost and administrative burden as barrier , but it be important to stress that there have be other large - scale compensation scheme create in response to DWP maladministration . the Equitable Life Compensation Scheme be a key example . I congratulate the hon . Lady profoundly on secure this much - need debate . do she agree that it be shameful that Labour make personal pledge to WASPI woman over social medium as a vehicle to get elect , but then toss aside those promise and turn its back on more than 7 , 000 woman , include Gill in Tiverton and Helen in Bampton in my constituency , as well as those across the length and breadth of the country ? do she recognise , as I do , that 74 % of the british public support fair compensation for WASPI woman ? the hon . Lady have be a fantastic campaigner for her constituent during her time in this House . I say in response that this issue unite the House ; we be all angry about the injustice that these woman have face , and we want the Government to take action . span various government and various administration , these woman have have to fight relentlessly just for what they be owe , and that be not acceptable . I have no doubt that there be numerous colleague at Cabinet level who agree with the woman ' s cause . they may be struggle to find option and answer , and that be what we be here today to provide . I hope that they be listen to and act on , because injustice be injustice . if we be say that victim of one injustice can be compensate by the Government , but that victim of another be not so deserving , we be travel down a very dangerous path . there be option to cover the cost and ensure that there be no heavy administrative burden , and I will give a few of they . the ombudsman ' s guidance on financial remedy set out its suggestion at level four on the severity of injustice scale , and it estimate that such remedy would involve public spending of between £ 3 . 5 billion and £ 10 . 5 billion . campaigner have suggest that an early stage — level five — be under consideration , and that would cost between £ 10 billion and £ 31 billion . in both case , as Lord Bryn Davies of Brixton have highlight , that recommendation and , indeed , any other scheme would not preclude taper the amount pay , which would bring down cost considerably . WASPI and its sister campaign suggest a bell curve model . they have highlight the fact that other large compensation scheme for DWP maladministration have be viable , and propose that any financial remedy could allocate the most compensation to those who have have the short notice of the long delay to their state pension age — in other word , support those most heavily impact in a bell curve model . they state that redress must be speedy , simple and sensitive , and they want to avoid legal action . they have ask the Government to enter into talk to address this very issue . the WASPI group propose that this remedy could take the form of a one - off payment that fairly take that into account , but that level four should not be a ceiling , give that not all circumstance be identical to the six sample claimant . WASPI Scotland have also highlight how a scheme could be operate relatively easily , use DWP record of date of birth or national insurance prefix , on either an opt - in or an opt - out basis . that information be readily available and would not require complex application system or the processing of such application . the hon . Lady be make an extremely powerful case about this long - stand injustice . as she have point out , the WASPI campaigner be make really constructive suggestion to resolve the matter , offer to reach out and sit around the table with the Government . do she share my frustration that the Government be refuse to do so , effectively force a court process , which be just lead to long and long delay , when there be such a clear injustice and an unprecedented rejection of the PHSO ' s recommendation . the hon . Lady be right . she , too , be a fantastic advocate for the woman in her constituency . these woman should not be force to go through lengthy court battle , and the Government must recognise the cost of have to undertake those court battle versus the amount that they would actually pay through a redress scheme . ultimately , the court be likely to find in favour of these woman base on the fact that we have be present with as parliamentarian . indeed , CEDAWinLAW and 1950 woman of Wales both strongly support a mediation route towards redress , via an early neutral evaluation of group ' ask towards mediation with the Secretary of State for work and Pensions via mediator . more broadly , they raise concern that discrimination need to be factor into any redress mechanism , state that the roll - out of state pension age potentially conflict with the UN convention on the elimination of all form of discrimination against woman — CEDAW — treaty , which the UK sign in 1981 . as such , the Government should implement a temporary special measure to guarantee an adequate , non - discriminatory pension . one of the first constituent who come to I eight year ago be a WASPI woman . do the hon . Lady agree that , after so many year , so much compromise and so much willingness to talk to the Government , one of the thing that matter most to these woman be not so much the amount of money but the actuality and significance of be compensate ? the hon . Lady be spot on . the woman have suffer an injustice , and they have be ignore . they should not have have to fight for so long . the sad fact be that already so many woman have die wait to see justice . what will it take to fix this ? will it take an ITV drama to shine a light on what have happen before everybody get angry enough to do something about it ? I do not know the answer to that , but what I do know be that the fact be clear . even the ombudsman ' s report set that out , and the Government need to act urgently . the hon . Lady have be a fantastic campaigner in this House over the year . and I be sure the woman be truly thankful for her support . the 1950 woman of Wales propose , in line with CEDAWinLAW , that redress could be an initial lump sum to allow swift financial relief , with additional payment over a five - year period . even the previous Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee suggest a scheme . he write to the then Secretary of State for Work and Pensions to suggest that a rule - base scheme be consider . the letter describe a system where payment be adjust within a range , base on the ombudsman ' s severity of injustice scale , to reflect the extent of change in the individual state pension age and the notice of the change the individual receive . it would be quick to administer , he say , and inexpensive compare with a more bespoke scheme . he far suggest that there should also be flexibility for individual to make a case for additional compensation for direct loss . and that Select Committee Chair be now a Minister in the Department for Work and Pensions ! who know ? perhaps the Minister could sit down and have a cup of tea with himself to discuss the plan he have before he enter office . any scheme must be responsible and financially sustainable , so let we have a look at some option on that , too . rise — Order . before Mr Shannon intervene , may I respectfully ask the hon . Lady to consider truncate her speech a little , as a number of colleague will want to speak this afternoon ? there be 77 , 000 WASPI woman in Northern Ireland , 7 , 000 of they in Strangford . do the hon . Lady appreciate their palpable anger about how they have be mistreat and about the injustice that they wish to see address ? on behalf of those 7 , 000 constituent of mine , I seek the same thing as the hon . Lady and all of we in this Chamber today . the hon . Gentleman be a powerful advocate for woman in Northern Ireland . he be right : what have happen be wrong , plain and simple . we need to see action today . I promise I be come to the end , Madam Deputy Speaker — I do not want to try your patience . there be option to make sure that scheme be financially sustainable . WASPI have calculate that HM Treasury have save a whopping £ 181 billion by increase the state pension age alone . other option include apply a 1 % to 2 % wealth tax on asset over £ 10 million , which would raise up to £ 22 billion a year , or equalise capital gain tax with income tax rate , which would raise £ 15 . 2 billion a year . apply national insurance to investment income would raise £ 8 . 6 billion a year . end stealth subsidy on bank could raise up to £ 55 billion over the next five year — something even Gordon Brown have advocate . cost do not need to be , and should not be , a barrier to justice . in January the Deputy Ombudsman tell the Work and Pensions Committee that the DWP at the time know that the woman do not know , and that they fail to act . he say : " if you accept this maladministration and you accept people be affect by that maladministration , there be a conversation about how you factor cost into the need to do justice . " the trauma , hardship , poverty and sheer stress that these woman have be put through for a decade must make justice for they a matter of urgency . I have a lot of time for the Minister . I call on he to get round the table with these woman and to listen to they . I ask he to listen to the evidence , put consideration of financial redress for 1950 - bear woman who have suffer back on the table and allow full and adequate parliamentary scrutiny for any proposal , as the ombudsman intend . it be a pleasure to be call to speak so early in the debate . I congratulate the hon . member for Salford ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) on secure this debate . there be not much more that can be say , as she have put the case so eloquently , but there be one key point I want to get on the record : broadly speak , as the hon . Lady eloquently say , this issue cross the House and there be a broad understanding that there have be an injustice . for I , this be about fairness and what will happen go forward if people lose faith in organisation such as the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman . I congratulate the hon . member for Salford ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) on secure this debate , and I thank she for her work . do my hon . friend agree that this be about trust in Government and a betrayal of trust for all of we who stand there with placard say , " I support the WASPI woman " ? they should be follow that up . I completely agree with my hon . friend . at a time when trust in Government and politician be so low , it be imperative that we do all we can in this place to right that wrong . to get an idea of the level of support across the House , I would like to see a vote in Parliament about whether we should have a fair compensation scheme . whenever I speak to WASPI woman in my constituency or elsewhere , the main thing they want be to be listen to . the key thread that resonate with all these woman be that they feel completely sideline and ignore . my hon . friend the Member for Tiverton and Minehead ( Rachel Gilmour ) make the point early that party of all persuasion have hold placard and make promise and pledge — and the Liberal Democrats know all too well about the danger of make promise that can not be deliver on . I would like all party and all politician to be hold accountable for the promise that they fail to deliver on . I represent a place that be broadly characterise as fairly affluent and wealthy , but there be real issue with poverty in Harrogate and Knaresborough , though it be often hide . the hon . member for Salford eloquently make the point that when WASPI woman be grow up and work , they be already disadvantaged , and this be a further disadvantage . it be incumbent on we all to right that wrong . do my hon . friend agree that this be an issue not only of justice , but of equality between man and woman ? if this government be serious about tackle inequality at all level , they must surely listen to the woman in all our constituency on this issue . I have be inundate with correspondence from constituent about this , and the Government must tackle it . I completely agree . I do not intend to speak for much long , so I will wrap up . for I , this represent a fundamental flaw in the system . it be a complete failure of the ombudsman if , after there have be maladministration , it can not get we in this place to push for the change that it have outline . that maladministration be not up for debate ; it be a finding of the report . we hear harrowing story from woman who have lose house , end up in debt and face horrendous situation as a result of something that they do not know about . this be about fix that problem and right that wrong . first , I thank the many woman across Falkirk who have take the time to campaign on this issue , and to discuss the injustice do to woman affect by state pension age change and the lack of notification about those change . I be here on their behalf . both the ombudsman and the Secretary of State in her statement back in December be clear that there be an injustice in the way that woman impact by state pension age change be notify . I invite WASPI woman in Falkirk to meet I in December after the Secretary of State ' s statement , and what I take from that meeting be that if we in this place believe that there be no injustice , compensation would never have be pay , regardless of fiscal circumstance . if we recognise that there have be an injustice — as the Secretary of State and the ombudsman do — we be justify in expect that we will deliver , in some form , the redress recommend in the ombudsman ' s finding . on behalf of the WASPI woman in Falkirk who raise and continue to raise these question with I , I will use this opportunity to ask again some of the question I have previously raise with the Minister . I would welcome he address they when he sum up . why can the Government choose when to implement ombudsman recommendation , and when not to ? be the 90 % awareness figure use by the Government derive from a study specific to woman who have be impact by the pension age change , and be the decision base on cost or genuine disagreement with the finding of the ombudsman ? it be often say in time of financial crisis that some institution be too big to fail . unfortunately , in this case it be a question of some campaign be see as be too big to succeed . I be quite sure that the real reason why the Department for Work and Pensions be so resistant to this cause be not that it do not recognise the justice of the WASPI woman ' s cause , so eloquently set out by the hon . member for Salford ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) , who have give excellent leadership on this cause through the all - party parliamentary group . rather , behind the scene — I do not know this , but I be sure that I be right — it be put forward argument along these line : " there be so many of they ; the bill will simply be too great . what ' s more , they ' re only go to get between £ 1 , 000 and £ 3 , 000 each , which win ' t be anything like full financial compensation , so what ' s the point in give in to this demand ? " I be quite sure that if the number be few and the overall bill be not so significant , we would not see this resistance to an obviously valid and viable cause . do the right hon . Member agree that we can not put a price on justice ? I do indeed . of course , in any event , the woman realise that they will not get anything like full compensation , but they want the symbolic acceptance and acknowledgement of the injustice that they have receive . as we have hear from those on both side of the House , this resistance put at stake the credibility of the ombudsman system itself . undermine that will have a knock - on effect : in many future case , the bill for implement an ombudsman ' s recommendation and finding will not be anything like as large , but people and institution will be embolden to defy the ombudsman . one of the good short summary of the case be put forward in a previous Labour manifesto , which say : " a generation of woman bear in the 1950 have have their pension age change without fair notification . this betrayal leave million of woman with no time to make alternative plan — with sometimes devastating personal consequence . labour recognise this injustice , and will work with these woman to design a system of recompense for the loss and insecurity they have suffer . " admittedly , that be the 2019 manifesto , and Labour at that time be lead by the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) , but that do not mean that the manifesto be wrong in what it say . it be absolutely right in its summary and its recognition that something must be do . indeed , when the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions be in opposition in the last Parliament , she be cautious in what she say about the ombudsman ' s report , but she do acknowledge the follow : " we will take time to give the report proper consideration too , and continue to listen respectfully to those involve , as we have do from the start . " she add : " we win ' t be able to right every wrong overnight . " that would have be the basis for at least an attempt to give the symbolic redress and acknowledgement that I think most fair - minded people agree be due . if the Government have come back and say , " we can ' t implement the ombudsman ' s recommendation in full at the moment , but we shall try and do it in stage , or over a period , or will at least go some way towards a symbolic acceptance of the wrong that have be do , " I think most reasonable people would have understand the situation and have be willing to at least consider some sort of compromise . do the right hon . Member agree that this be an issue of not just policy , but dignity ? these woman ' s voice must be hear , and the Government have a responsibility to honour commitment make , to give fair treatment , and to ensure that something be do . yes . in a way , the Government have fall between two stool . the report , as we have hear , anticipate that the Government would be reluctant to the right the wrong do to so many people at once , but nevertheless the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman feel that justice require compensation to be pay . it know that there would be this Government resistance , so it must have mean a lot to the ombudsman to still go down this highly unusual route of try to present its report directly to Parliament , because it feel it would not get far by deal with the Government directly . one might have expect the Government to offer a scheme that fall some way short of the ombudsman ' s recommendation , but their outright rejection of any restitution at all be rather insulting to the woman whose complaint be uphold by the ombudsman . as we have hear , despite the DWP claim to accept the finding , and even apologise for its maladministration , it be not offer a penny in restitution , and be rely in its response on a deeply unconvincing polling exercise that supposedly find that nine out of 10 of the affected woman know in advance that their state pension age be go to change . if that be the case , why do so many of they carry on as if nothing be go to change at all ? a few moment ago , the hon . member for Falkirk ( Euan Stainbank ) ask about the nature of the sampling that be do ; only some 200 woman bear in the 1950 be include in the sample of nearly 2 , 000 people survey , which lead to that misleading result . I know the Minister have a great deal of expertise and a strong track record on issue of this sort from his former career , before he come to this House . I therefore appeal to he to at least reach out the hand of negotiation and discussion ; to accept the offer that reasonable people be make to the Government ; and to sit down and talk to they , and not to let the whole thing go through the court , which would lead to an adversarial deepening of hostility and , inevitably , a less desirable outcome for everyone concern . with an immediate four - minute time limit , I call Brian Leishman . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Salford ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) for bring forward this debate , and for her contribution , which be excellent , as usual . it be quite the sight yesterday to see female parliamentarian don green , white and purple sash in commemoration of 97 year since woman win the vote . it seem unthinkable that woman be deny political representation ; but then again , woman have be the victim of inequality for century . the pension inequality that woman bear in the 1950 suffer from show that the political battle may have somewhat change , but prejudice and unfairness still exist . some colleague may feel somewhat uncomfortable with what I be about to say , but I believe that it need to be say . someone who support campaign on WASPI , nuclear test victim or the Hillsborough law while in opposition should , when they find themselves in a Front - Bench role in Government , do everything they can to deliver justice , as they say they would while hold a placard or a banner . support and solidarity for people like the WASPI woman be not transactional ; solidarity be not a campaign tool . I have campaign for justice for WASPI woman , and that be why I co - sponsor the ten - minute rule Bill for compensation in January . for year , government have refuse to deliver justice to WASPI woman . that be wrong . not deliver that justice seem like one of those " tough decision " that politician have to take , but the truth be that this be a choice , and it always seem to be work - class people who be on the wrong end of these choice . a Labour Government should make different choice , as highlight by my hon . friend the Member for Salford . like many , I believe that the Labour party be the vehicle for social , political and economic change . a year ago tomorrow , people vote for change — a change from austerity and its social consequence , and from a Government who deny fairness to victim of many scandal and injustice . I want to mention the lady from the Falkirk WASPI branch . we meet in my constituency office . we sit ; they speak ; and I listen to their legitimate anger about the Secretary of State ' s announcement last December . their hurt today be as palpable as it be when we meet in the new year . I urge the Government to do the right thing . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) . I begin by congratulate the hon . member for Salford ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) on secure this debate , and on be such a champion of this cause for many year . indeed , we have have to debate this injustice in this House for too many year , whether on these green Benches or in other Chambers on the estate . it be a point of great sorrow for I personally that one of my first speech as a Member of Parliament back in 2017 be on this injustice , and little could I have imagine back then that I would be a little old , three election down , and still have to debate the injustice that have befall so many 1950 - bear woman . the hon . Lady cover the entire injustice so eloquently that I only want to emphasise a few point . first , we be talk of a generation of woman that I highly admire . they be woman who suffer injustice and great disadvantage throughout their work life . they be often not pay in line with their male colleague . they be not entitle to the same opportunity when it come to private pension , for example . that injustice itself be important to highlight because it bear relevance on what we be talk about . we be of course aware of the challenge initiate by the two pension act that cause the change in the state pension age for 1950 - bear woman . after this injustice be bring to we , Members of Parliament from across the island of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ask many woman in our constituency to organise and to campaign . we ask they to diligently undertake the various process that be available to they to right this wrong , and it all culminate in the ombudsman process . the ombudsman , as we have hear , find that there have be maladministration and an injustice and that far too many 1950 - bear woman have suffer as a consequence . it be therefore absolutely outrageous that we have a Government not only disregard the recommendation in part or try to water they down , but dismiss they outright . as other hon . and right hon . member have eloquently say , this go to the heart of our democracy and , indeed , faith in the administration and institution of the state to right these terrible wrong . I understand from representation make by the campaign group in my constituency — both WASPI and the 1950 woman of Wales — that they be keen to seek this resolution to ensure some justice for they and their fellow 1950 - bear woman . they be be very pragmatic . they be willing to speak with and discuss the matter with the Government . I plead the Minister today to reconsider the opportunity that have be present by these group to discuss other way of bring a resolution forward , so that 1950s - bear woman can at long last have some justice . we should not force they to go through the judicial review process and drag they through the court . far too many year have already be spend try to right this wrong . we can not delay any far because estimate suggest that over 300 , 000 1950 - bear woman have already pass away since this injustice come to light . that be equivalent to one 1950 - bear woman die every 12 minute . there be an opportunity here to get back round the table , and I urge the Minister and the Government to do so . I want to put on the record my thank to my hon . friend the Member for Salford ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) for this campaign . reference have be make to the manifesto in 2019 . she and I write that section . we work with WASPI and all the campaign and with Lord Bryn Davies . we , in the modern language , " co - produce " a scheme at that point . we look at how much these woman have lose — how much they have be rob — which be about £ 200 million , and they ask for 25 % back , just a quarter . it be expensive — of course it be — but there be a window of opportunity because we say that we would borrow that and pay it out over a five - year period . at that point in time , interest rate be so low , and in fact some go into negative interest rate , that we could afford it . we have lose that window of opportunity , and I be angry that that happen . I be angry because I do not know any MP , exactly as have be say , who be not photograph behind a poster support the campaign . I pay tribute to the campaign . a lot of those lady have be patronise over the year . it be a terrific campaign . in fact , it be so terrific that under this government , it would most probably be proscribe , but there we be . we all recognise now that there be an injustice — we all accept that . we all know that the DWP operate essentially a sexist policy ; it admit that now . the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) say it be a matter of principle . I do not think it be a matter of principle ; it be a matter of hard cash as well , because large number of people be still suffer poverty as a result of what have go on . all I want be a fair settlement , and that be all they be ask for . they be not go away — well , some of they have , because they have die — and this campaign be not go away . we will not let it go away until we get justice for these woman . what the ombudsperson have do be put the matter back to this House . we in this House should be demand that this House determine the scheme itself and be allow to vote on that scheme . a Budget be come up in November . a number of we will not support that Budget unless there be something in it for these woman . why should we ? why should we let this go on for another year , while people suffer and the injustice go unremedied ? I be angry about this . all the promise give over the year have be renege on and dishonour . that be not the way we should act as representative of our community . I want to be able to go back and say , " at least now the Government be go to offer you negotiation ; then , they will report to the House and let the House determine the nature of the scheme . " I want that do within month , not allow to drag on for year while people suffer in poverty , or lose their life or their hope of compensation . let we make this commitment today . to be honest , I do not expect the Minister to say much today , other than what have be regurgitate year after year , but let we , as an assembly , make that commitment today . let we say that we will keep come back over the come month until we secure that commitment from the Government . I would like it to be a cross - party commitment which all the Front Benchers sign up to , so that we can have some confidence that it will be deliver . like the WASPI woman , I have have enough — enough of these debate , enough of promise not deliver , enough of watch the suffering that woman in all our community have have to endure because of this injustice and inequity . I congratulate the hon . member for Salford ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) on secure this debate and on her tremendously eloquent speech , which remove much of what I have to say . in all honesty , though , eloquent speech be just not go to cut it ; they simply will not do the trick . we need action . I note , with the exception of those present , the absence of so many Labour mp who , as other have say , stand hold placard in support of the WASPI case . where be they today ? do they not understand the sense of betrayal , the sense of breach of promise and the breakdown of trust ? that be a problem that many of they will face in due course . the hon . member for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Tom Gordon ) speak of accountability . well , there be accountability , and it will come at the next election , when people have a chance to pass their verdict . I will not repeat many of the thing the right hon . Lady say , but I do want to highlight a couple of point . the PHSO say : " some woman lose opportunity to make informed decision about their finance . " the ombudsman also say that Parliament should " identify a mechanism for provide appropriate remedy for those who have suffer injustice " . when the Budget be announce , there be great expectation that there would be something in it for the WASPI woman . there be nothing — nothing — even though the DWP accept the PHSO ' s finding and apologise not once , but twice . if someone take my wallet and I discover that and I come to they , do anyone think an apology will suffice ? no . I want my wallet back . that be the point : an apology just will not cut it . a great number of woman affect by this mal - administration be my constituent and there be many thousand across Scotland . I participate in the debate on 17 March — in fact , I mention the WASPI woman ' s case in my maiden speech . I believe the hon . member for Salford speak straight after I , and that the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) be also present . many other have a much long record than I do of campaign on this issue . I do not want to go on too long , because many of the point have already be make , but I want to highlight one last thing . the most distasteful aspect of this profound failure of the UK Government be the photograph of the current Secretary of State for Work and Pensions pose with WASPI campaigner , smile and hold a sign pledge , " I will work with WASPI to identify and deliver a fair solution for all woman affect " . that is , frankly , shameful . there be one get - out — in fact , there be a number of way in which this can be redress , but here be one . my right hon . friend the Member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) will tomorrow re - present his Women ' s State Pension Age ( Ombudsman Report and Compensation Scheme ) Bill . if member have not sign that Bill in support of it , they have an opportunity tomorrow . we in the SNP understand the issue that be involve here . we will continue to support and speak out against this injustice . I thank member for listen to I . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Salford ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) for secure this debate from the Backbench Business Committee , of which I be a member , and for her eloquent and informative speech . financial security be something we endeavour to secure for our family and for ourselves . many 1950 - bear woman work their whole life with the goal of financial security in their mind ' s eye , only for it to be affect through no fault of their own . I will not rehearse the ombudsman ' s judgment , which stand as clear as day . we have hear those word time and again specifically because this have not be appropriately remedied . what never fail to shock be the live experience . the testimony of 1950 - bear woman be so important because the impact of their story never diminish . this be about real woman . my constituent , Ann , be just one of the many 1950 - bear woman who will not accept that find a remedy to the DWP ' s maladministration be " neither fair nor feasible and would not represent good value for taxpayer . " when Ann be 57 , she apply for a pension forecast . upon receive it , Ann discover that her retirement age be 66 , rather than 60 . not long before that shocking news , she go from work five day a week to three . how be she to know that she have to work and plan for retirement over a further six year ? she be never inform . because she be now work part time , it be not possible for she to substantially increase her pension contribution . in 2020 , at the age of 63 , Ann be make redundant . she have to make her small redundancy payment last she until she retire three year later . life have be tough for these woman . event like the pandemic , when Ann lose her job , shake we all , but event where the state have make people ' s live more difficult just because of the day they be bear , have a particular degree of unfairness to they . give the ombudsman ' s significant concern that the DWP would fail to remedy the injustice , it deliberately lay its report before Parliament . when the Government announce their position in relation to the finding — incredibly , without recourse to Parliament — this reaffirm the ombudsman ' s concern , and set a worrying precedent for the future . we have high hope for our Pensions Minister ; his past life , dedicate to improve living standard , make he well suit to the role he now hold . I truly hope that he will re - examine the Government ' s position on an issue that be so important to so many woman who continue to fight for justice . the purpose of this place be , of course , to make law , to amend they and sometimes , if we be in opposition , to stop law be make . but it have another purpose : to hold those with power to account . we do that as individual constituency MPs all the time , take up case on behalf of constituent , but this case not only affect the WASPI woman in my constituency ; I take it up for all the WASPI woman , inspire by the leadership of my friend , the hon . member for Salford ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) , and other across the House . it be unusual in this place for Government Members of Parliament and the official Opposition — labour mps and Conservatives — the Liberal Democrats , the SNP , the DUP and Plaid Cymru to all come together in common cause . that speak volume . it say that we recognise that these woman be unjustly treat . but it be not just our recognition that count ; the ombudsman too recognise exactly that . when an ombudsman state that maladministration in DWP ' s communication about the Pensions Act 1995 result in the complainant lose " opportunity to make informed decision about some thing and to do some thing differently " , and that that diminish their " sense of personal autonomy " and financial control — and that be just one of its finding ; maladministration , inappropriate communication and the failure to deal with complaint punctuate the ombudsman ' s finding — for a Government not to respond to the ombudsman be frankly unacceptable . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that take this step to ignore the finding of an ombudsman set a really dangerous precedent that could be exploit by private company and by Departments ? I do agree with that . it be a case powerfully make by the hon . member for Salford that this case be very much about the relationship between the ombudsman and Government , and between this House and Government . that connection between independent scrutiny by the ombudsman and our ability as a House to hold the Government to account lie at the heart of this issue , and that be exactly what I be about to say . this question be about the WASPI woman , but it be also about something still more profound . I hope the Minister will recognise that , in the decision he take , he will set an important precedent — a precedent that will affect exactly those kind of relationship . I will reveal to the House what the Minister already know : when this matter be consider by Ministers , a submission would have come forward from official . I have no doubt at all that it would have offer several option . option a might have be to satisfy the WASPI woman in full ; option b might have be to come to a partial settlement , which they perhaps would have accept ; option c would have be to do nothing . the Government choose — despite all the pledge in opposition by the Deputy Prime Minister , the Work and Pensions Secretary and the Prime Minister himself — to take that final option of do nothing . I find that very surprising . know how reasonable the campaigner be , I suspect that , have a partial settlement be offer , they might well have meet the Government halfway . they might have understand that the cost be substantial and that they have to compromise to some degree — although let we just explode one myth : that all these woman be privileged and advantaged . many be not . many , when they face a long period before they could retire , be in ill health . many have caring responsibility . many be hard up . in campaign for those woman , mindful of those disadvantage , we be speak for people who otherwise would be powerless . Minister , it be not too late to get this right . for the WASPI woman have a just cause , and surely , in the name of decency as well as in the name of good democracy , justice must be do . I fully understand that the Government decision announce in December last year be not about the change to state pension age from 1995 onwards , but rather about how decision make by the Department between 2005 and 2007 lead to a 28 - month delay in send out letter to people affect by those change . in March 2024 , the PHSO ' s stage 2 and 3 report find clear maladministration in the way the DWP communicate state pension age change . that fact can not be dispute . as a direct result , many woman bear in the 1950 be leave with little or no time to make alternative plan and therefore suffer injustice . again , that be clear and obvious , I would suggest , to all . figure from Age Scotland suggest that around 336 , 000 woman be impact in Scotland , and over 5 , 000 of those be in my West Dumbartonshire constituency — my WASPI woman — include Elizabeth Daly , Elaine Newfeld and Maureen McGrath . I could list hundred who have contact I to share their personal story , to help I understand that this be not just about figure or statistic . they include Liz , who care for her desperately ill husband , her retirement plan wreck and their life destroy by year of suffering , and Maureen , penalise because she retire at the age of 60 to care for her elderly mother , who lose out on access a full state retirement pension . all my WASPI woman tell I that , at this stage , it be not about the level of need or the amount of compensation , but about justice . the UK Government be right to recognise the injustice suffer by WASPI woman in the statement to the House on 17 December , and to apologise for the maladministration that affect woman across the UK . of course , the step set out by the Government to ensure this do not happen again be welcome , but we must learn the lesson and always set a clear timetable for notice of any future state pension age change . however , an apology be not enough . I urge my Government colleague to look again at the ombudsman ' s report and all its recommendation . ignore key element of the report , by refuse to comply with its instruction and refuse to set up a compensation scheme for maladministration , not only undermine its role and function , but be unprecedented and set we on a very dangerous path . for any Government to reject the recommendation of the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman be extremely rare . between 2018 and 2021 , the PHSO make a total of 811 compensation recommendation — only one be not comply with and 99 . 9 % be accept . therefore this be highly unusual and , in my opinion , corrosive . to conclude , I suggest that we should avoid unnecessary court action . let we get around the table with the WASPI woman and avoid year of court battle , similar to other scandal over the past few decade . let we urgently review and explore what scheme this Government can consider , and offer financial redress to the 1950 woman who deserve justice and to be properly compensate for past Government maladministration . I rise to speak on behalf of the 5 , 180 woman in my constituency of Eastleigh who be impact by state pension age inequality , and the thousand of woman across the country who be victim of Department for Work and Pensions maladministration . as I say in the debate in Westminster Hall in March : " we know that the Government be face incredibly difficult challenge , but ignore the voice of thousand of woman be a huge mistake . this issue be not go to go away . " — [ Official Report , 17 March 2025 ; Vol . 764 , c . 11wh . ] my constituent , Chrissy , receive her state - pension six year later than she be expect . she tell I : " those lose year weren ' t just number — they be year of struggle , uncertainty , and hardship . the silence from the government be a cruel erasure of our life . the government say it ' s too expensive to compensate we . but it be never too expensive for we — yet we have to live with the cost and the hardship every single day ' ' . many of the woman in my constituency who be impact be leave with very little to live on , blindside by the sudden loss of income . they be force to return to work in low - pay job to get by and , in some case , have to use food bank . the toll on their life , and those of their family , should not be underestimate . these woman spend decade work , raise family and often take on unpaid care - give role . many continue to shoulder caring responsibility today . the way that they have be treat by successive government be nothing short of disgraceful . my constituent ' story be echo across the country . the WASPI campaign estimate that 3 . 8 million woman have be affect — woman who have be treat appallingly , and feel that they do not matter and be invisible . I urge the Government to stop gaslighte they and start listen — really listen — to the pain , injustice and betrayal they have endure . the refusal to provide compensation not only be morally indefensible , but set a dangerous precedent , as the hon . member for Salford ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) say . if Departments can accept maladministration yet ignore the ombudsman ' s remedy , the entire purpose of independent oversight collapse . today I call again on the Government to do the right thing and compensate the woman who be unfairly impact by the change to the state pension age , because it be the right thing to do . how much long do these woman have to wait for the Government to u - turn on state pension age inequality and give they the compensation that they deserve ? I thank the hon . member for Salford ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) for champion the cause of WASPI woman , who have be utterly fail by successive government . I will not repeat what other have say , but it be clear that the Government should act on the ombudsman ' s report after the maladministration of the DWP . I have speak to woman in my constituency , WASPI Scotland and across the UK . these be woman who historically have face systemic inequality , low wage and difficulty access the same work opportunity as man . they have disproportionately shoulder care responsibility as primary carer for child and , later , they frequently care for elderly relative and love one with disability . they continue to give their unpaid labour without acknowledgment , which significantly reduce pressure and cost on our NHS and social care service . I be one of those woman myself . after a family illness , my life change in an instant . I have to stop work and become a carer , and I have to be at home . if I be not fortunate enough to still have my health and strength to become a councillor later in life , when my caring responsibility allow , and now an MP , I would have be reliant on my state pension and a very small private pension due to circumstance totally outwith my control . the reality be that I be far from be alone in find myself with caring responsibility or ill health , and many of my counterpart be not in my fortunate position . waspi woman like myself work hard , pay into the system and look forward to their retirement , base on their understanding of the system at the time . at time when other be plan their pension , these woman be in low - pay job that be flexible enough to allow they to continue with family commitment . when it become clear that corrective action be necessary , the Government first exploit the plight of these woman for political gain . once they be in power , they then ignore the promise they have make to win their seat . Most troubling be the Government ' s continued refusal to act , despite the ombudsman ' s extraordinary call for parliamentary intervention . rather than provide decisive leadership and deliver justice , the Government have delay , deflect and evade accountability . if the Government be sincere about fairness , integrity and honour their commitment to support work people , they must go beyond expression of sympathy . concrete step must be take to deliver the ombudsman ' s recommendation , recognise both the scale of the injustice and the dignity of those involve . these woman deserve well : they have spend their life work and contribute to our society , prevent cost for the NHS . we must value their contribution and thank they . implement the advice of the ombudsman be the least that the Government can do . for those woman who , like I , be fortunate to have a high income after reach state pension age , his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs and the tax system will effectively claw back a large proportion of any redress and return it to the Treasury . I stand here in support of the 6 , 020 WASPI woman in my constituency and every single WASPI woman across the UK . I congratulate the hon . member for Salford ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) on secure this crucial debate . I also thank she for her powerful and compelling speech , which clearly present the case and evidence as well as the injustice that these woman have suffer and the clear need to address it through the payment of compensation by implement the recommendation of the ombudsman . without want to repeat any of the point that have be make , I will read out some specific comment from my constituent in Dewsbury and Batley . Virginia , a constituent of mine , write to I just after I be elect : " I be absolutely devastate and I feel betrayed . for year , senior labour representative and even the Prime Minister himself pledge to deliver fair compensation to those impact . they have now make a political choice to break that promise and to ignore the finding of an independent watchdog … the DWP get it wrong , and they can not simply adopt a ' pick and mix ' approach to which element of an independent ombudsman ' s conclusion they find convenient . " she go on to say : " furthermore , in recent month , all pensioner lose their Winter Fuel Allowance have be write to directly . why do the Government not feel this would have make a difference for WASPI woman ? " another constituent , Ann , write : " I need to vent my frustration and anger at the Government ' s announcement yesterday that they will not accept the Ombudsman ' s recommendation to pay WASPI woman some compensation for maladministration . they be in support of this whilst they be in opposition . " this decision be a complete betrayal and a breach of trust between this place and the people we represent , and it must be reverse . Ann go on to say : " the people make these decision be in fortunate position themselves but I be rely on their understanding and compassion for other who be less able to make up the c £ 48k which I reckon to have ' lose ' . " Paula write to I : " as you know , thousand of woman live in Dewsbury be impact . many , include I , be leave with little time to make alternative plan for their retirement and have be affect by this lack of notice ever since . " she raise a critical point , which be that she have no notification from the DWP at all until she write to it in 2006 ask for clarification . when it reply to say that she would be able to retire at 65 , that come as a shock . in 2011 , when an extra year be add , the DWP do not communicate that to she , either . in conclusion , as the hon . member for Salford have clearly explain , the Government ' s justification for not pay compensation be absolutely flawed . the argument that it be too costly or complex to provide compensation be untrue . as the ombudsman write in its finding , " finite resource should not be use as an excuse " to avoid " a fair remedy . " as such , I repeat the call of Members from across the House for the Government to reverse their decision , bring a vote on compensation to this House , and engage in out - of - court talk with WASPI woman . I thank the hon . member for Salford ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) for secure this debate . she speak superbly and with great passion on the subject . December last year mark a shameful day for this Government , when million of woman bear in the 1950 — woman who have give a lifetime of service , hard work and care to their family , community and country — be utterly betray . as ever , the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) give a superb speech , but I take slight issue with one thing he say , which be that the Government do nothing . if only they have do nothing , we would be in a well situation . instead , despite the clear evidence from the parliamentary ombudsman of maladministration by the Department for Work and Pensions , the Government decide that there would be no financial compensation — no justice , only betrayal . that be a choice that the Government make on behalf of these woman — woman who face significant hardship because they be not properly inform about change to the state pension age . an apology , while necessary , be simply not enough . a government can not apologise for maladministration and then refuse to put thing right . it be disgraceful to acknowledge an injustice , but refuse to fix it . these woman deserve fairness , they deserve dignity , and they deserve compensation . as other hon . member have mention , we know exactly why the Government will not act . it come down to money . for year , the liberal Democrats have champion the cause of WASPI woman , among other . we have consistently call for fair and proper compensation , in line with the ombudsman ' s recommendation . in my constituency , I have see at first hand how deeply this injustice have affect woman ' s life . they have work hard , plan carefully and trust this government to keep their promise , only to be badly let down . I will quickly share the story of my constituent , Helen from Seaford , who be part of my local WASPI group . she be shocked to hear about the change in 2012 , in a letter inform she that the age at which she be due to retire would rise from 60 to 65 . unbelievably , that be only two and a half year before she be due to retire , and it mean she have to work an extra six year to be able to support her daughter properly . Helen spend 50 year pay national insurance as a single parent , and she tell I she be so angry that what she have work for have be take away from she . I be sure the House would agree that Helen ' s resilience and determination be inspire , but she should never have be place in that position . this Government make a cynical calculation that these woman can be ignore and that they would not fight back and would not keep push , but they underestimate the strength and determination of woman across this country , include in my constituency , who have stand up and demand fairness . this decision can not and must not stand . it be a bitter irony that the Government be now fight in court the very people they say they would stand up and fight for . I urge the Government to reconsider their position , to listen to reason and finally do the right thing and compensate these woman now . it be a real pleasure to speak in this debate . first , I thank the hon . member for Salford ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) for set the scene so incredibly well and all the hon . and right hon . member who have contribute fantastically , put across the demand of their constituent . this be not a new issue , and we know that . I do not think I have miss a WASPI debate . indeed , I do not think the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) have miss one either in the time I have be here . this week in this House have give I hope that perhaps the Government can acknowledge when we be move in the wrong direction . the Government need to correct the wrong step take and follow through on the recommendation in the ombudsman ' s report . Northern Ireland have some 77 , 000 WASPI woman , of whom 7 , 000 be my constituent . I do not know all 7 , 000 personally — I have not do that roll - call — but those who have come to I have tell I their story . in many case , they be lady who have clean floor or clean office or be classroom assistant or teacher . age catch up with we all , and it catch up with I , too . it catch up with they , and their knee be not as strong as they use to be . they plan their pension in accordance with the timescale , and then it be take away from they . that be the concern I have . they have plan for their life , and then they be deprive of that . the report rightly find that some WASPI woman be not inform about the change to their pension and have make long - term financial plan base on the assumption that they would receive their state pension at 60 . all their financial planning be in place , and then it be just take away . that mean that when the WASPI woman lose their pension , they lose all source of income and meet unexpected financial insecurity . the insufficient information be not only negligent , but deeply unjust , and the Government have acknowledge that to be the case , so there be a precedent . the hon . member for Lewes ( James MacCleary ) be right to say that the process be back away from . woman who spend decade raise family , pay taxis and contribute to the economy be leave without recognition for their hard work . many WASPI woman be force back into the workforce , often with disability and often into low - pay job , or have no choice but to apply for benefit . those woman should never have have to do that after a lifetime contribute to the system . a number of these woman — I call they the silent generation — still face significant outstanding debt and loan that they will struggle to pay off for the rest of their life due to the inability to manage their income appropriately . when they realise that they could not access their pension , their ability to go back to full - time hour be not simple , and the emotional toll have be significant , too . many WASPI woman now experience stress and depression bring about by financial uncertainty . it be only fair that the hard and consistent work do by these lady be financially recognise . I say this with respect to the Minister , but one of the first step that this Government take be to sort out the back pay of union worker . I be not say they should not have do that , but if there be to be fairness in this system , I can not for the life of I understand how they can do that in one breath , and then in the next apologise to the WASPI woman but not do right by they . the silent generation be determined to be silent no long . I applaud they for go against the grain , as we often say at home , by continue to complain . I applaud they for continue to speak , when many of they have be tell to be quiet and give it up . I applaud they for continue to hold government — this one and the last one — to account . I applaud they for stand beside the weary and the worn , and for demand compensation for all affect . Apologising be not enough . as the hon . member for Aberdeenshire North and Moray East ( Seamus Logan ) say , it be not about word any more . it be about action , and now be the time . I refuse to believe that age be catch up with the hon . Gentleman . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I , too , congratulate the hon . member for Salford ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) on secure the debate , on campaign on this issue , and on make sure that this debate come to the main Chamber . I thank all hon . member for their contribution this afternoon . as well as hear the very strong and powerful case around this particular issue , we have hear personal example . whether it be Gill from Tiverton , Ann from Newcastle , Helen from Seaford or Paula from Dewsbury , we have hear that many woman rightly feel a sense of raw injustice , and the Government must act . I have meet WASPI woman many time in Parliament , but I have also meet they in my constituency . a couple of year before I be elect , I meet a group of 30 WASPI woman . I regret that I can not recall the name of the woman whose case I remember , but her circumstance stick with I . she be quietly speak , and I could tell that she have real rage and fury inside she , but she be not prepared to show it . she just say , " I ' ve spend my entire life work . I ' ve raise a family . I ' ve watch the penny , and I be proud to stand on my own two foot . but at the end of my work life , I feel rob of my money and rob of my dignity . even though I know this situation be not of my making and not my fault , I feel a tremendous sense of shame . " that really stick with I . some 3 . 8 million woman be affect by this issue , and many of they feel a sense of shame . they should not , but they do . it be really frustrating that the Government , notwithstanding the terrible inheritance that they receive , have choose to do nothing , and there be two problem face they . the first be that an obvious injustice have be leave unaddresse . the second be that , as so many member from across the House have say , it set a very dangerous precedent . for some woman , an offer of an apology or a payment might be symbolic , but it be far more than that for many of they . it be about survival , and it would help they to get out of the struggle that they be now in . on behalf of my party , I urge the Government please to reflect after this debate , and to go back to the drawing board and think about what can be do . at the very least , they should think of something to help those woman who be struggle the most . do nothing be really not an option . if the rebellion early this week be for any reason at all , it be to send a message to this government that their own party , this House and the british public want a Government who will stand up for the underdog — those who be hard do by in life , by the Government and by circumstance out of their control . I hope the Government listen today and act , because to govern be to choose . the Government must know that it be not too late to make a different choice . I call the shadow Minister . let I start by give credit to the hon . member for Salford ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) for her very powerful speech and for all the work that she have do on this campaign over the year , and to many other Labour Members who have speak so well today , particularly the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) , who I always listen to with respect on this topic and , indeed , on some other . it have be good to hear from member . I particularly welcome the contribution of the hon . member for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) , who be a great new addition to this place . we see here the true voice of the Labour party . it be the Labour movement at its good , and I pay tribute to Labour Members for their campaigning on this topic . they be the hero of the movement . we also have the hero of the conservative party behind I — my good friend the knight of the shire — whom it be an honour to listen to . it be like listen to Edmund Burke when my right hon . friend the Member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) speak about duty and responsibility . I congratulate the hon . member for Salford and my right hon . friend the Member for South Holland and the deeping on their work together on this campaign , which , a few month ago , secure the very significant Westminster Hall debate that have be mention . on that day , as if the product of their work , out pop , fresh and pink , the new Minister , who be appoint to his role on that day , as if for the very purpose of answer the question of what should be do for the WASPI woman . there be hope of great thing from he , but I be afraid to say that we be disappoint on that day . he could offer no hope at all , yet since then we have see a whole series of U - turn . they have become fashionable on the Government Front Bench , and who know what we may hear the from Minister today . I recognise , and I be sure the Minister will stress , how difficult it be to address the very complicated circumstance of the very many woman catch up in the pension age change . as I be sure he will say , the ombudsman have recognise that there be no direct impact on pensioner ’ income from the maladministration and the miscommunication of which the DWP be guilty in the 2000 . however , as member have say — I particularly recognise the point make by the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) — woman make decision about their future , and about their life , in ignorance of their true circumstance . the failure by the DWP to successfully and appropriately communicate with the woman cause they to make decision that directly disadvantage they . it be simply not credible , and I hope the Minister will not advance this argument , to say that correspondence from the Government be essentially pointless and have no value . that would be to suggest that there be no point in any Government communication by post . of course , woman be not advise of the change in the circumstance , and that be the fault of the Government of the day . as many member have say , and I acknowledge the powerful point make by the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) , woman deserve so much more . as she say , our constituent feel that they have be rob not just of their money , but of their dignity as a consequence of these decision . what be to be do ? there have be a series of suggestion about how we might go forward . on a point of process , I do not agree with the hon . member for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Tom Gordon ) — and I be concerned that my right hon . friend the Member for South Holland and the Deepings seem to agree with he — that the ombudsman ' s report should in effect be bind on the Government . I do not think that be appropriate , because these be sovereign decision that the Government , accountable to Parliament , should be make . however , I agree with the hon . member and other that these report should be respect by the Government , and I feel that simply do not happen in this case . it be become a habit of mine to intervene on the hon . member . he say that the report should be respect , but should not be bind , so what do he have in mind , and how would it look ? it be absolutely essential that the point make in the ombudsman ' s report be fully acknowledge by the Government , and it be necessary , as I will explain , that some meaningful redress be make to the victim of the DWP ' s maladministration . the hon . member for Salford suggest that there could be another review of the system by the Minister for Social Security and Disability , but I do not think that the magic word , " timms review " , will get the Government out of this hole . he have enough on his hand sort out the mess they have make on benefit , so this be a job for this Minister , who be a very clever man , and I have great confidence in he . the suggestion make by some member of mediation may be usefully take forward . however , as my right hon . friend and constituency neighbour the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) say , it be simply insulting of the Government to make absolutely no redress and no acknowledgement of the injustice that the WASPI woman have endure , and it be appropriate for some meaningful acknowledgement to be make . it be not for I to rescue the Government from the consequence of their own incontinence — their fiscal folly — which have get they into the mess they be in , but they have make several discretionary payment since they come to power . there be the salary increase for train driver , without any improvement in productivity ; the creation of a multibillion - pound energy company that make no energy ; our pay another country billion of pound to take over sovereign territory belong to the UK ; and , of course , all the u - turn that have impose significant new cost on the taxpayer , include those cost £ 5 billion this week alone . obviously , Government can make discretionary payment if they want to ; these be sovereign decision that they can make . crucially , any such decision must be fund . we see this week that the Government essentially fall apart as a consequence of a whole series of bad decision make in the Treasury . Parliament rise up against the Treasury and demand change . the decision make at the heart of the Government have be woeful for the past year since Labour have come to office . I pay tribute to the parliamentarian who resist that this week . this be a new opportunity for the Government to put right a mistake , and I look forward to hear how the Minister propose to do that . I thank all hon . member who have speak powerfully today , and in particular my hon . friend the Member for Salford ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) for lead today ' s debate on behalf of the Backbench Business Committee . this be an important topic that she and I have discuss several time , both in public and in private . I look forward to her closing remark . when we retire , the question of how comfortable we will be in retirement and in the year lead up to it — ot least give the growth in pre - retirement poverty , partly due to ill health , as the hon . member for Mid Dunbarton - shire ( Susan Murray ) set out — be crucial to all of we . we ask that question of ourselves , and of those we care about . as the debate have show , many hon . member rightly ask that about the country as a whole . we should expect people to have strong view on the state pension age . we all know woman affect by the change make , since 2010 in particular , that affect that age group — constituent , friend and family . I have declare a family interest on this front before , alongside my professional one . I , too , have many constituent who be affect , and I have hold up the banner say , " I stand with WASPI woman . " my hon . friend the Member for Salford ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) lay out where we can find the money . surely we can promise to revisit this when the public purse allow , rather than let down these woman who have be let down over and over again . justice delay be justice deny . I always thank my hon . friend for her contribution . she make a powerful case . I will come on to the reason why we do not agree with that case , but I understand her point . this be a cohort of woman who have too often face discrimination in the world of work , with lasting effect on the value of their workplace pension . they have bear the brunt of unequal caring responsibility , and as my hon . friend the Member for Salford set out , historically the gender have have very unequal state pension . that , at least , have be address , but the workplace pension divide remain as big as ever . I should declare that my mum be a WASPI woman . she would be disappoint if I be not here today , and there be nothing bad than your mum be disappoint in you . I also represent 6 , 030 other WASPI woman in my constituency . I just wonder if the Minister really understand the discrimination face by 1950 woman , include sexism and a lot of discrimination in the workplace . they just feel let down . do the Minister realise that , and that they absolutely deserve justice ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . I know , without have meet she , that his mum will not be disappoint in he . obviously , the point he make be absolutely right ; it be the point that I be just make . I think we be all aware of the experience that this generation of woman have have to face , not just in the labour market but much more broadly . he make a powerful case , as always . now , there be broad political consensus that it be right to equalise the state pension age for man and woman , but the acceleration of the state pension age increase by the Conservative and liberal Democrat coalition be more politically controversial . I be not go to mention it , but I will gently remind Liberal Democrat Members who have speak today — the hon . member for Eastleigh ( Liz Jarvis ) and for Lewes ( James MacCleary ) use particularly strong language on this point — that it be the choice make by their party . not to mention that acceleration at all — [ interruption . ] if member be go to use strong language about difficult choice , then they need to reflect on the choice that lead to that point . my party oppose those choice at the time . however , neither the acceleration nor the long plan increase to the SPA legislate for since 1995 be matter the ombudsman investigate . this matter , give that it be the desirability of the original policy decision make by previous government that be most frequently refer to by campaigner and by hon . member , include the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) today , who focus on the increase to the state pension age . in contrast , the ombudsman ' s focus be on how those change be communicate by the Department for Work and Pensions , as the hon . member for Mid Dunbartonshire very clearly point out . as all hon . member know , we carefully consider the ombudsman ' s finding . we always will , give its important role , which be set out by the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) today and in several debate that I have take part in with he in recent month . the Minister be right to say that no party — indeed , no previous Government — can be excuse in this respect , because this matter cover the time in office of several government . the difference be that member of his party , in opposition , say , " this injustice can ' t go on . I have be a longstanding supporter of the WASPI campaign " , and that labour " will compensate " the WASPI woman , as it be " their money " . that be say by the current Work and Pensions Secretary and the current Deputy Prime Minister . the right hon . Gentleman have be a Member of this House for much long than I , so he know how this work . party set out their manifesto , and I be sure that if he look at the Labour party ' s 2024 manifesto , he will find there different word from the one he have just share with the House . the Government agree that letter should have be send soon . we have apologise , and we will learn the lesson from that . however , as hon . member and campaigner on this issue be well aware , we do not agree with the ombudsman ' s approach to injustice or to remedy — and neither , read carefully between the line of the speech from the hon . member for East Wiltshire ( Danny Kruger ) , do the Opposition . the hon . Gentleman speak very eloquently , as always . let we look at what the ombudsman say when it make its decision to lay the report before Parliament . it be not look ahead to what a future Government might do ; it know that the then Conservative Government would have come to a similar conclusion . hon . member should remember that the long debate over those year between the Government and the ombudsman be hold in private , so the ombudsman be aware of the approach of the Government , to whom it be talk in a way that those of we outside Government at the time could not have know . the hon . member for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Tom Gordon ) and the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) ask about the decision not to accept an ombudsman ' s finding . they be right to say that it be unusual , but it be definitely not unprecedented . I should spell out that the Government have accept other ombudsman finding since , so it be not right to say that this be some kind of fundamental break in the approach by Government . early , the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) warn we that we might simply see the Government Front Bencher regurgitation the Government ' s view today . can the Minister clarify whether he have be send here to defend the indefensible , or will he give we something new today ? the hon . Gentleman be welcome to choose his tone ; I will continue to the end of my comment . my job be to come and explain the Government ' s decision , and to be hold accountable for it . that be what I be do today , and what I will continue to do over the course of my remark . it be right that the Government be then ask question about their decision ; that be the nature of this democracy , as the hon . member for East Wiltshire say . an important consideration in the Government make this decision be that evidence show that send people unsolicited letter be unlikely to affect what they know . that be why letter be send only as part of wide communication campaign . this evidence be not properly consider by the ombudsman . another consideration be that the great majority of 1950 - bear woman be aware of the state pension age change , if not of a change in their specific state pension age , as several hon . member have point out . my hon . friend the Member for Salford mention the statistic of 43 % , refer to the 2024 rather than 2023 survey . however , as she will know , that refer to all woman , include some woman as young as 16 ; if we look at the cohort of woman bear in the 1950 , the figure be far , far high . on those and other ground , we reject the ombudsman ' s approach to injustice and remedy . [ Official Report , 1 September 2025 ; Vol . 772 , c . 3WC . ] ( correction ) Members will be aware that litigation be live , so I will not go into lot more detail on the research evidence , which be the core of that litigation . I will just say two thing : first , our decision be base on publish research report , which be robust and meet professional standard ; secondly , the same awareness research , which the right hon . member for New Forest East disparage , be use by the ombudsman . will the Minister explain to the House why not one single speech in this debate until his have take the line that he be take ? everyone who have speak in this debate believe that some compensation , at least symbolically , should be pay . I thank the right hon . member for his intervention . I be a liberal man . People will come to different view on the evidence . there be many member in the House who have campaign powerfully on this issue over many year , and I respect the work they have do on that . I be set out a different view from the one that the right hon . Member have take . that be the nature of policy choice , the nature of accountability , and the nature of this debate . the ombudsman be clear that redress and compensation should normally reflect individual impact , as it do in the case of the Equitable Life compensation scheme that an hon . Member mention . and they spell out the challenge of assess the individual circumstance of 3 . 5 million woman , not least give that it take the ombudsman nearly six year to look at just six case . the reality be that assess they would take thousand of staff very many year . we give detailed thought to whether we could design a fair and feasible compensation scheme . however , most of the scheme that be suggest would not focus on woman who lose opportunity as a result of the delay in send letter . rule - base scheme , such as that suggest by the Work and Pensions Committee , would make payment on the basis of the like of age rather than injustice . simply play a flat rate to all 3 . 5 million woman bear in the 1950 , irrespective of any injustice , be also hard to justify . fundamentally , though , our decision be not only drive by cost — to answer directly the question of the hon . member for Falkirk ( Euan Stainbank ) — but by the fact that we do not agree with the ombudsman ' s approach to injustice or remedy for the reason that I have set out . indeed , our commitment to pensioner can be see in the significant fiscal investment that we be make in our priority for pensioner , include raise the state pension and rescue the NHS . I have an awful lot of affection for the hon . member . be there any difference between this speech and the one that be make in Westminster Hall ? as it do not look as though there be , he might as well just send we the tape of the last one . well , the right hon . Member have demonstrate more affection on previous occasion be what I would gently say to that . if he be ask I whether the Government ' s position have change , I be afraid that the answer , from his perspective , be no . a few moment ago , the Minister say that the Government have conclude that it would not be appropriate to apply a flat rate to all 3 . 8 million woman . have the Government do any modelling on pay a flat rate to any other small cohort within that 3 . 8 million woman — for example , woman on pension credit , or under a certain level of income or saving ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . I think we have discuss version of this question before . yes , there have be model that may have focus on a subset of woman — for example , those on pension credit — but that still come up against the fundamental challenge of payment base on some other qualifying condition , which in this case be income , and not the injustice that have be suffer . the ombudsman set out that compensation be due for the injustice , not just the virtue of be a woman bear in the 1950 . rise — I will give way , but then I will wrap up before Madam Deputy Speaker lose her patience . I be grateful to the Minister for give way again . he will be aware that in other compensation scheme , there be often wave of compensation . the first wave of compensation can be on one indicator , with a second wave look at other complicate factor . have the Government look at that model ? I refer the hon . Lady to our very detailed response , which be publish in December . it run over a number of page , so I will send she the relevant extract on the conclusion that we have consider . [ interruption . ] I will have to conclude now because I be test the patience of Madam Deputy Speaker . I recognise that none of what I have say today be likely to change the mind of many member here , as the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) have kindly point out to I . I know that , not least because I see many familiar face from similar debate in Westminster Hall , as the even more friendly right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) have tell I . the campaigner , too , be unlikely to be satisfied . their tenacity have be clear for all to see and have be attest to sufficiently today . they be right to continue to point to the wide context , which be that society have be far from universally kind to woman bear in the 1950 , as they have wrestle with discrimination in the labour market and beyond , which be what the hon . member for Ceredigion Preseli ( Ben Lake ) set out early . nothing regard the case I have set out today diminish any of that . however , the Government have make their decision and we owe it to everybody to be clear about it . it be right that hon . member hold we to account for it , as the hon . member for East Wiltshire ( Danny Kruger ) have set out . that have happen today and in other debate in the House , include Westminster Hall . as I have say before , there be lesson for the Department to learn , and learn they we will . we will also continue to support woman bear in the 1950 and pensioner generally , not least by raise the state pension and turn around our NHS . I know that they and hon . member will expect nothing less . I want to thank the whole range of colleague who have speak today . it have be a fantastic collegiate debate that have show the House at its good . for those outside of the Chamber who be watch , the campaign continue . it be a campaign that bring so many of we together , and there be so many formidable campaigner in this Chamber who need to be celebrate . I know that the Minister be in a difficult position , and I have a lot of time for he , as I say . I know that he be bind by the Government ' s current position on this issue , but I want to pick up on some of the information he give in his speech . he say that I refer to a piece of research from 2024 , but it be actually from 2003 , and it be research that the ombudsman itself rely on in say that 43 % of woman do not know that the state pension age be increase . the Minister again make the point about letter be ineffective , but he must understand that to people watch this debate , that be an absurd thing to say . I know that he say that DWP research state that , but the research be absurd and do not really have any basis in reality . I do not want the Minister to go down in history as the man who deny justice for the 1950 - bear woman — I honestly do not . I want to see action on this , and I want he to go down as the person who finally manage to award these woman justice . he have to understand that the argument be put forward by the Government be absurd to say the least . in fact , in deny the ombudsman ' s report , the argument be akin to argue that the world be flat . it be certainly not an argument that the Resolution Foundation would have put forward when the Minister be director of it . the right hon . Gentleman be right ; it be not . that be why I place so much hope in the Minister to take action on this . to conclude , there be two statement make by colleague that stand out for I . the first be from the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) , who say that in the name of decency , justice must be do . the Minister must recognise that , so I urge he to get round the table with the woman and present a package before Parliament that we can all support and celebrate . as the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) say , we be not go to give up until justice be do , and neither be the woman . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House note the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman ' s ( PHSO ) report on Women ' s State Pension Age , HC 638 , publish in March 2024 , which find that maladministration in the Department for Work and Pensions ( DWP ) communication about the Pensions Act 1995 result in complainant lose opportunity to make informed decision about some thing and to do some thing differently , and diminish their sense of personal autonomy and financial control ; further note that there will likely be a significant number of woman bear in the 1950 who have suffer injustice because of maladministration in DWP ' s communication about the Pensions Act 1995 ; and also note that , give the scale of the impact of DWP ' s maladministration , and the urgent need for a remedy , the PHSO take the rare but necessary step of ask Parliament to intervene , lay their report before Parliament under section 10 ( 3 ) of the Parliamentary Commissioner Act 1967 and ask Parliament to identify a mechanism for provide appropriate remedy for those who have suffer injustice . phone Theft I beg to move , that this House have consider the matter of mobile phone theft . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for ensure that we could have this important debate today . I know that there be many mp who would have love to be here today and who have suffer mobile phone theft . ten year ago my bag be steal when I be at a conference in a Westminster hotel . I use geo tracking and see it move slowly over the bridge . I call the police , but they be not interested — as I say , it be 10 year ago . somebody at the conference have a car , and in true " starsky and Hutch " style we use it to chase down the thief . we notice as we be travel alongside they that we be probably go to make they very suspicious , so we go ahead of they and stop . this be probably a lot of detail , but we then pretend to kiss as the thief walk towards we . I call the police again to tell they that we be about to apprehend the thief and retrieve my phone . the police then arrive , and when they jump out of the van we jump out of the car . the thief have about 20 mobile phone on they . I recover my bag and , although they have dump my stuff along the way , I get all my stuff back . but the thing be , that be 10 year ago , and thing have move on — people understand that there be " find my phone " , as do the police , so we know that we can recover steal phone — so now be the time to prioritise this type of theft , which be make our street less safe . tourist be be target . I know that the Home Secretary have have a roundtable with mobile phone company and with the Mayor of London , but if the company will not take this problem as seriously as they should , we need to force they to do that by law . I go to a good briefing on the Metropolitan police ' s Operation Reckoning , which show its determination . this be a vital way of achieve the Government ' s safe street mission . in Westminster , a mobile phone be steal every six minute . I commend the hon . Lady on bring forward the debate . she be absolutely right , but it be about even more than mobile phone . I be not technically minded — I own up to that ; I be of a different generation — but today ' s young person carry on their mobile phone bank detail , family thing and personal thing that allow access to account and whatever else . sometimes , in the back of their phone they have their debit card and their drive licence , so when someone get their phone , they get almost their whole life . as the Minister acknowledge in a previous debate , perhaps today ' s young person need to understand that if they lose that , they lose almost everything financially . I thank the hon . member for that important intervention ; he be absolutely right . a mobile phone be not just for make a phone call anymore ; it be an integral part of most people ' s life . it hold datum on it , as well as picture that its owner will never be able to take again . it hold voicemail from love one . my friend who have her phone snatch in Egypt have a voicemail from her late mother on her phone . mobile phone hold so much information that when someone snatch one , they be snatch a part of that person ' s life . far to the intervention from the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , do my hon . friend agree that public awareness be not where it should be ? it worry I to see people with their phone stick out of their back pocket or people stand and take photograph around Westminster , know how high the incidence of theft be . somehow the public need to be more aware and more careful with these precious thing that hold so much of their life on they . I thank my hon . friend for that important intervention . that be the thing : until we ensure that our street be safe , we must ensure that people be acutely aware of what be happen . I find myself sometimes tap people on the shoulder and say , " excuse I , can you move your phone from your back pocket ? you might get pickpockete . " I feel that the manufacturer use this as part of their business model . they know that once a phone get steal , its owner will go and buy another phone , and phone currently operate on a monopoly . I do not know if anybody have ever try to switch from an iPhone to a Samsung as I do — oh my goodness ; it be like they do not want you to switch over . even from Android to Android , it be difficult to move over the datum . mobile phone company know exactly what they be do . thank God for usb - cs , because iPhone charger use to change with every upgrade , so people end up fork out more and more money . we need to hold the manufacturer to account because they make enough money and enough profit . we have to get to a stage where we be put people and the safety of our citizen first . London be one of the great city on earth and we want Tories to come — not Tories , but tourist . [ laughter . ] tory be obviously welcome too , even though they be not here today . we want tourist to come to London to sample the art , the culture and the inclusion . we do not want to go around warn they about their mobile phone . over 700 phone be also steal from Departments , so the Government should have a vested interest in this because it will cost taxpayer money to replace those phone . we can redesign mobile phone so that nobody want to steal they . I do not know if people be old enough to remember — although there be a few in the Chamber today — when car radio use to be steal out of car . we combat and stop that crime by build the radio into the car so they could not easily be snatch out . I just want to throw something else at the debate around the insurance issue . many say , " you should be cover by insurance . " my phone be steal last November . it be classic : I get bump into in a big crowd and do not realise . I then recognise the theft and do " find my phone " . it be in north London , so I contact the police , but they do not investigate after an hour because they say it be go . I say , " I have the personal number of the whole of the Cabinet there , so that might cause a bit of a problem . " I then claim on the household insurance and be cover , but then the insurance company would not renew my cover . that just add to the problem all the way through . everyone seem to be make a profit out of it , apart from we . I be impressed that my right hon . friend have the all the Cabinet ' s phone number . he be absolutely right ; the knock - on effect of this crime be huge . whether it be the house insurance , the personal stuff or the global crime syndicate , it be huge . I watch a documentary by Dave Fishwick , know through " Bank of Dave " . he speak to one of the gang leader and they talk about shoulder surfing , where they like to watch people and get the detail of their phone . they like to get phone when they be already open so that they can then scrape all the datum and bank detail . within that hour , as my right hon . Friend say , they could empty out someone ' s bank account . around 30 , 000 people be also victim of identity theft in this country every single day . this crime , therefore , be not simply about nick somebody ' s phone ; it go a lot deep than that . one hundred million second - hand phone go to China and some go to Algeria too . Apple and Google say that they will reconnect phone that have be report steal . we should say to they that that admission , in itself , be unacceptable . China have become an illegal electronic recycling hub where , if they can not get into a phone , they dismantle it and build a new phone use various part from steal one . those who do not disconnect their ID straightaway be send threaten message that talk about kill and rape family member , with some even send video of gun that say they be come to kill they . that be terribly frightening and also why we need to stop this global crime now . there be a link between neighbourhood crime and organised criminality . criminal think that the police do not care about mobile phone theft because it be just a mobile phone and people can claim it back . I be glad that the Met police be take this seriously , unlike 10 year ago . I doubt that many head of criminal organisation will be watch this debate , but I note that 235 people be arrest in January 2024 through Operation reckoning . on average , people be get sentence of four to five year , which I think be right , because this be not a crime without consequence . the Government have a huge role to play in make sure that we say to these criminal that we be serious about hold they to account . however , we must also say to the manufacture company that if they will not provide a kill switch for steal mobile phone , we will force they to do it by law . rise — Order . I plan to start the wind - up at around 4 . 30 pm . I congratulate and thank the hon . member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) for bring this important debate . I rise to support she and to bring urgent attention to an issue that continue to disrupt life not just across the UK , but in my constituency : the rise tide of mobile phone theft . this be not a petty crime or just about the loss of a device . this be about identity theft , financial vulnerability and , in many case , the complete disconnection of some of the most vulnerable people in our community from the service they rely on every day . the number for the last two year speak volume . between December 2021 and November 2023 , West Yorkshire police record over 560 mobile phone theft in Dewsbury and Batley alone — 293 in 2021 - 22 and 269 the following year . on average , more than 20 people in my constituency fall victim to this specific crime every single month , and that be just what be record . we know full well the real figure be likely high . many do not report these crime , believe that the police have more serious matter to attend to or that nothing can be do . as the hon . Member say , mobile phone theft be serious . these be not just communication tool ; they be bank , medical record , job application , childcare arrangement , emergency lifeline and priceless memory . I read about a constituent — a single mother — in Dewsbury Moor whose phone be steal while shop . it be not just the phone she lose ; she miss three job interview , could not access her new universal credit account and have her personal photo and private medical record compromise . that be not an isolated story . mobile phone theft be a systemic threat to digital safety and personal dignity . nationally , hundred of thousand of mobile phone be steal annually , and many of those device end up in highly organise criminal supply chain . some be export ; other be wipe and sell locally . in some case , victim be follow or even assault for their device . what be bad be that recovery and prosecution rate remain disturbingly low . across many police force , less than 5 % of mobile phone theft result in charge . what must we do ? first , we need to treat mobile phone theft as organised crime , not petty theft . the link between phone theft , fraud and even violent crime be well establish . police force must be resource and mandate to treat it with the seriousness it deserve . secondly , we need strong action from telecom provider and tech company . why be some phone still so easy to wipe clean and resell ? on that very topic , the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee have an inquiry where we put this to Apple and Google . it turn out that phone that be report steal in this country go on something call the gsma blacklist , which stop the hardware from work and the phone can not be reuse in this country . the police say that most steal phone go abroad to network that do not use that blacklist . I put it to Apple and Google that they could use this blacklist . they say yes they could , but no they do not want to . do the hon . Member agree that these company should enable that blacklist , which would — in my humble opinion — effectively stop the theft of phone on the street of London ? I thank the hon . member for his informed contribution to the debate . I agree with he and the hon . member for Brent East , who indicate that company be not do enough . it should be easy to disable phone so they be beyond use both in this country and abroad , and so the only value they have would be in the spare part they contain . we need strong action from telecom provider and tech company . they must put the protection of their customer ' datum above profit from their customer have to buy the same or a similar replacement . why be some phone easy to wipe and resell ? why be track system so easy to disable ? the Government must act to force company to make tracking system strong and less easy to disable . thirdly , we must support local policing . in Dewsbury and Batley , neighbourhood police team be overstretch , try to deal with phone snatching , shoplifting and antisocial behaviour with limited boot on the ground . they deserve the tool , the people and the political will behind they to make our street safe . finally , we must support victim . many can not afford to replace their phone or reclaim their digital identity without support . let we explore emergency tech fund or digital safety grant for vulnerable individual and family . we live in a digital world in which steal someone ' s phone be tantamount to steal their identity , their access to society and , for some , their only link to help . we must not stand by while our constituent be target , their privacy violate and their future interrupt . let we act not just with concern , but with conviction . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) for secure this important and timely debate . seventeen year ago , I be a young Hutch to her Starsky , as a parliamentary staffer in the then constituency of Brent Central , so it be nice to speak in her debate today . those of we who have have our mobile phone steal know how hopeless you can feel and how intrusive it can be . we know it be not a victimless crime . I have have my phone steal , as have my husband . it can happen in second , leave you suddenly vulnerable as you go about your daily life . for a woman walk alone , late at night , have her phone take from her hand can be extremely intimidating . for many of we , have our phone steal or snatch mean we lose access to so much — our banking , our photo , our voice note , and the occasional WhatsApp we might not want to be see . in this day and age , have your phone steal feel like your whole life be suddenly at risk of be crack open and violate . I know that horrible feeling , and so do my constituent Thomas , who contact I after he see a BBC article in which I discuss my own experience . Thomas do not just have his phone steal . thief gain access to his wallet and online banking , and take out a huge loan in his name , which cause he massive anxiety over Christmas . despite clear evidence of fraud , it be only when I intervene as his Member of Parliament that his bank allow he to recover his money . Thomas ' story be just one of many account of the impact of phone theft that my constituent in Stratford and Bow have relate to I . with 330 , 000 passenger pass through Stratford station each day and 1 million visit Westfield each week , Stratford have become a phone theft hotspot . Cynthia and Andrew write to I , deeply concerned about the rise in e - bike enable phone snatch and the anxiety this have cause in their neighbourhood . e - bike be a key enabler of mobile phone theft . this week , we hold ASB forum in Redbridge and Waltham Forest . we hear about the great work be do by Councillor Jo Blackman to address the problem of illegally adapt e - bike . simple measure we could implement , such as end the off - road sale loophole , would have a real impact on our constituent affect by phone theft and other crime . do my hon . friend agree that we must look at the regulation and enforcement around e - bike , which can be adapt to go at dangerously fast speed and so enable this sort of crime ? I agree with my hon . and gallant Friend ; he make an important point , and I be sure the Minister will respond to it . I want to mention a few other constituent ’ experience . Jade contact I to share her shock at witness a mother have her phone snatch while she be try to buy shoe for her son . Matthew tell I his partner be leave feel unsafe walk their dog at night after be accost by thief on his way home . those be not isolate incident . they be part of a wide and troubling trend — we in this Chamber know that it be happen across our constituency — and it be one that leave people feel fearful in their own neighbourhood , as they go about their daily life . make no mistake : conservative Members , who be not here in great number today , should look seriously at their record . in the final year of the previous Government , street crime rise by over 40 % , and mobile phone theft soar . it do not have to be this way . with properly fund and resource police and community service , we can fight back . I mention the footfall at Stratford station . I have see at first hand what be be do to tackle this issue there : a police taskforce launch target operation , with officer disrupt theft and arrest phone snatcher . british Transport police recently have a similar operation . this Labour Government be take action , crack down on the thief and thug and take back control of our high street , town centre and shopping centre . we be back up police with strong power to tackle mobile phone theft in the Crime and Policing Bill , and we be call on tech company to design out the ability of thief to re - sell steal phone . crucially , we be strengthen neighbourhood police to restore public confidence that if a person report their phone as steal , someone will actually do something about it . in London , we be work with Mayor Sadiq Khan , who I know be personally commit to drive down these figure . phone theft be not a petty crime , and it be not a victimless crime . it can happen in second , but the impact be long - lasting . it can rob people of cherish memory store on their phone . it can drain bank account in second . as my constituent Matthew put it : " what way be that to live , afraid to walk your dog in your own neighbourhood ? " we owe it to he and everyone affect to make our street safe . I will join Members here today in do all we can to root it out , but we must also compel phone manufacturer to remove the incentive , because we can not arrest our way out of this problem . every layer of this chain must take it seriously . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the hon . member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) for secure this debate and the Backbench Business Committee for grant it . along with the hon . member for Dewsbury and Batley ( Iqbal Mohamed ) and for Stratford and Bow ( Uma Kumaran ) , she speak eloquently of the emotional impact of a steal phone . I still have a 2 g Nokia , but that be another issue . a phone be far more than just something we can send text message on or make call . it be where we store our memory , where many people find romance and where we access critical service , as the hon . member for Dewsbury and Batley say . it be so much more , and that be why the impact of a steal phone be very significant and far more disruptive than it would have be 20 year ago . member have highlight the important role that tech company and phone company need to play in prevent and mitigate phone theft . they also highlight how the lack of police resource can sometimes mean a lack of immediate police interest or a need to improve police process . we must make sure that our police be support , so that they can help people who be victim of this crime . any form of crime can leave we feel vulnerable . I be once burgle . very little be take , but nevertheless , the sense of worry and the fact that it could happen again stay with we and prey on the mind , particularly when by oneself late in the evening . that manifest itself here as well as anywhere else . the hon . member for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) make an important point about the role that illegal e - bike play in this crime . I commend to member a recent report by the all - party parliamentary group for cycling and walk about the issue of illegal e - bike , which outline a number of step that could be take to well regulate they and deal with that problem . government policy be that police will be able to search property without a warrant for steal phone or other electronically geotagge item under measure in the Crime and Policing Bill . clearly , as we have hear this afternoon , more need to be do to stop the tidal wave of mobile phone theft . it be right that the Government be take step in that direction but , if they be really serious about stop mobile phone theft , they must also restore proper community policing , where officer have the time and resource to focus on their local neighbourhood . everyone deserve to feel safe in their own home and walk down their own street , but for too many people in the UK today that be simply not the reality . the Conservatives ' unnecessary cut have leave our police force overstretch , under - resource and unable to focus on the crime that affect our community the most . every day — [ interruption . ] I be sure the hon . member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) know how to make an intervention , if he would like to do so , rather than speak from a sedentary position ; he have be in the House some time . every day , 6 , 000 case be close by the police across England and Wales without a suspect even be identify , and just 6 % of crime be report to the police and result in a suspect be charge . that be partly because the Conservatives slash the number of police community support officer by more than 4 , 500 after 2015 , when they be in government by themselves — and with a decisive majority , in most instance . there be significant public concern about the prevalence of mobile phone theft , particularly snatch theft , as we have hear in this debate , where perpetrator on bike and moped steal mobile phone from people ' s hand , often in busy urban area . the exact offence link to the theft of a phone will depend upon the particular circumstance of the case , such as where the phone be take — on the street or from inside someone ' s home — and whether force be use , but we know from the 2024 Crime Survey for England and Wales that an estimate 78 , 000 people have phone or bag snatch from they on the street in the year end March 2024 . that be equivalent to 200 snatch theft a day and be a 153 % increase on the number of incident in the year end March 2023 . London be regard as the epicentre of phone theft , with £ 50 million - worth of phone report steal in London in 2024 . the National Crime Agency say that steal phone be dispose of overseas , in China , Dubai , Algeria and many other country , and suggest that some offender will access datum contain within app on steal mobile phone in order to commit additional offence , such as theft from bank account . report publish by the Mail Online and the Times state that organise crime group pay people up to £ 200 per phone that they steal , show the complexity of the crime we be try to tackle and its link to other form of crime . those organise crime group ship steal phone overseas , where they be sell on or break down into part that can be sell or use for repair . it have be suggest that China be the preferred destination for steal handset , since China , unlike the UK , the European Union and many other country , be not a member of the central equipment identity register , a global database that mobile network use to block steal device . the Government be take some welcome step on this issue . as part of their safe street mission , they be work to " crack down on theft and other crime that make people feel unsafe in our community , include … strengthen neighbourhood policing " and restore public confidence . the safe street mission include a neighbourhood policing guarantee : " each neighbourhood will have name , contactable officer to tackle the issue face their community " , include dedicated team who will spend their time on the beat , with guarantee police patrol in town centre and other hotspot area at peak time . central to that guarantee be the Government ' s commitment to put 13 , 000 additional police officer , pcso and special constable into neighbourhood policing role . the Government aim to have the additional 13 , 000 in place by 2029 . in February , the Home Secretary host a mobile phone theft summit , " to drive new action to tackle mobile phone theft and secure a collective effort to grip this criminality . " the summit , attend by police leader , the National Crime Agency , the Mayor of London and tech company , discuss way to break the business model of mobile thief . the Home Secretary urge all in attendance to join force to help to " design out and disincentivise phone theft , by make phone effectively worthless to criminal . " it be agree that the mobile phone theft summit would reconvene in three month ' time , but we have not yet see any public record of the summit meeting again . as hon . member have say , there be an important role here for the tech industry . while some company such as Apple and Google offer tool to lock , locate and wipe device remotely and require identity verification , there be a lot more that they must do to ensure that this crime be deal with . in conclusion , lose a phone be more than just lose a bit of technology . our phone have now become intrinsic to most of our life , and many people be unable to pay for thing without their phone . that be why it be important that we have debate this issue and that the Government continue with their effort to tackle it . I look forward to hear from the Minister . it should go without say that law and order be the bedrock of a healthy society , but law that we make in this House be only worth anything if they be enforce . in Britain today , this be all too often the story : a widen gulf between our law and how they be actually apply . I can think of few well example than mobile phone theft . there be a temptation to think of phone theft as an example of petty crime , but it sound as though we in this House all agree that there be nothing petty about it . mobile phone be a link to our friend and family , and for many people they be a necessary tool for work , study and day - to - day life . they often hold sensitive information , both personal and financial , to say nothing of the intimidation and violence experience by victim , and the corrosive impact that rampant phone theft have on our public realm . so when we think about phone theft , we should not just be think about the inconvenience of a miss phone ; we should be think about the distress to victim and the creep sense that , increasingly , we be no long safe in public . to capture the scale of the problem , it be useful to reflect on the datum . accord to last year ' s crime survey for England and Wales , snatch theft of mobile phone and bag rise by 70 % last year , reach a 20 - year high . overall , theft stand at the high rate for a decade , accord to the Office for National Statistics . at the epicentre of this crime wave be London , where theft have more than double over the past five year . three quarter of phone theft take place there , with 116 , 656 phone steal last year alone . those device have a street value of more than £ 20 million . phone theft often contribute to other form of crime . accord to Commander James Conway of the Metropolitan Police , about 70 % of London ' s knife crime be link to theft , mean that the increase in phone theft be likely to be contribute to the city ' s rampant knife crime epidemic . Cyber - security expert have also warn that phone steal in London be be ship off to country like China , where they be often use in international organise crime . perhaps that should not come as a surprise give the approach take by Sadiq Khan , London ' s Labour Mayor . he be focus on crack down on stop and search , which be clearly prove to cut crime , while his police and crime plan barely mention phone theft , focus on introduce new regulation for phone company , instead of stop actual crime . of course , technology company should do their bit where they reasonably can , but our focus should be on catch and imprison criminal . in the vast majority of the 116 , 656 case , the report crime be not solve , the phone be not retrieve and the offender be not arrest , leave they to walk free to commit more crime . that be simply not acceptable and we should not accept it . all the while , police force across the country spend an estimate 60 , 000 hour per year on non - crime hate incident , collect and store datum on speech that might be perceive to be offensive . be it any wonder that many people be begin to describe the state of modern Britain as anarcho - tyranny ? More rule , apply more strictly for the law - abide majority , while actual criminal walk free . while many police officer work hard and genuinely wish to make our country a safe place , the system and incentive that govern their activity be totally broken . it be simply wrong that resource be spend on police speech , while prolific thief run rampant through our street . phone theft be not the only crime like that . for too many people in Britain , particularly in our large city , low - level disorder be now the unpleasant mood music of their day - to - day life . we all feel the decline in our public realm , and it make our country a bad place to live . speak to any member of the british public , and they will be able to tell we exactly what to do : spend less time on police speech and more time on catch thief ; give police force the tool they need to tackle these crime ; and when we catch a career criminal , ensure they serve a proper prison sentence . in short , enforce the law . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) on secure the debate and I thank the Backbench Business Committee for allocate the time . I be very grateful to my hon . friend for share her experience , particularly the " Starsky and Hutch " approach that she take to try to recover her mobile phone when it be steal 10 year ago . I be grateful to all member of the House who have make contribution . in the limited time that we have have available , we have have an important discussion , span many different area , both geographically and topically . the hon . member for Dewsbury and Batley ( Iqbal Mohamed ) speak about the experience in West Yorkshire . my hon . friend the Member for Stratford and Bow ( Uma Kumaran ) talk about the interchange at Stratford station and , along with my hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) , talk about the problem with e - bike as enablers of mobile phone theft . I want to be very clear : this Government be absolutely determined to address the menace of mobile phone theft . I say to the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Weald of Kent ( Katie Lam ) , that the unfortunate truth be that by the time this Government take office , this type of criminality have become so common that it be essentially a feature of daily life in some area , and the statistic bear that out . she talk about the policing of speech and lock criminal up , but she need to reflect on the record of the Conservative Government . they introduce the non - crime hate incident guidance under the previous Policing Minister , the right hon . member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) , who be now the shadow Home Secretary , and fail the prison system by not build enough prison place . this government be have to deal with that . will the Minister give way ? no , time be very short . the hon . Gentleman ' s record when he be a special advisor in the Home Office really be nothing to be proud of . I will talk about the statistic . street theft increase by more than 40 % in the last year of the previous Government , drive largely by soar rate of snatch theft involve mobile phone . while we be start to see some promising reduction , include a decrease in the number of mobile phone theft by force or threat of force in the capital , level of mobile phone theft sadly remain intolerably high , which be totally unacceptable . we recognise that the impact of this criminality go beyond the loss of a mobile phone , costly and stressful though that undoubtedly be . it undermine people ' s sense of personal safety and security in the most insidious way . it snatch part of people ' s life , as my hon . friend the Member for Brent East say , include bank detail , personal record and precious memory store on phone . Decent , law - abide people deserve much , much well , which be why the Prime Minister have place safe street at the heart of his plan for change . through that mission , we be take decisive action to restore law and order to our town centre and high street , and the scourge of mobile phone theft be very much in our sight . it may be helpful if I set out for the House some of the key step we be take to combat this crime . it have be clear throughout the debate that we accept that if we be to drive the real change we need to see , we need to work effectively with tech company , the police and other in civil society , both to prevent theft from happen and to well detect the perpetrator when theft occur . in that spirit , the Home Secretary chair a very productive summit in February , bring together representative from the police , include the Metropolitan police , the National Crime Agency , the Mayor of London , local government leader , lead technology company and other sector to push for much strong collaboration in this space . I have be work closely with stakeholder from industry and law enforcement on this important topic , so I be pleased to see the summit result in clear commitment from attendee to work in partnership , and to significantly boost the sharing of datum and intelligence on mobile phone theft , so that we can build a comprehensive picture of the problem and well understand the role of organise criminal network . ultimately , our aim be to disrupt , design out and disincentivise mobile phone theft . official be work closely with law enforcement partner , tech company and other industry representative to deliver practical and effective measure , so that we can crack down on these crime . my hon . friend the Member for Brent East talk particularly about mobile phone theft in London , which be a particular hotspot . that be why the Metropolitan police be an important partner in the collective effort to tackle this form of crime . we welcome the two recent period of intensification of activity by the Metropolitan police , which together result in more than 500 arrest link to mobile phone theft . we will hold a second summit in the next few week to reflect on the progress make , and to galvanise cross - sector agreement on the ambitious outcome that we all want . there remain a long road ahead , but I be really hopeful that the tech company and the wide stakeholder will come to the table with bold proposal . to be very clear , the Government will not hesitate to take more decisive action if the summit do not result in clear commitment to tackle this issue , include consider further legislation and regulation to radically reduce this — and related — criminality . I draw member ' attention to the fact that the Crime and Policing Bill introduce a new power to help police recover steal mobile phone more quickly . it allow officer to enter and search premise to which a steal device have be electronically track in situation in which it be not practicable to obtain a warrant . this will allow the police to act swiftly , and will increase the likelihood that criminal will be catch and punish . we welcome the innovative step already take by tech company to tackle mobile phone theft . it be crucial that we now deepen collaboration between those company and law enforcement . that be how we will ensure that anti - theft feature can not be bypass by criminal , and that the technology support police investigation and the recovery of steal phone . while anti - theft feature be vital to ensure the safety of mobile phone , we acknowledge that some technology can be misuse by bad actor , particularly in case of domestic abuse . that be why we be work with tech company to ensure that new solution be safe and proportionate , and do not inadvertently put victim at risk . this be about make steal phone worthless without create new vulnerability . during this debate , several proposal have be put forward for how we might strengthen our collective response to mobile phone theft . I have hear they all , and I be grateful for all of they . while we will of course keep our approach under review , we be focus on deliver our plan to reduce mobile phone theft in partnership with law enforcement , technology company and service provider . the Government be work with those tech company to ensure that people ' s phone be protect . through work group establish by the Home Office and attend by technology company and police partner , we aim to ensure that everything possible be do to disincentivise phone theft by make steal phone effectively worthless to criminal . I conclude by again offer my thank to my hon . friend the Member for Brent East for secure this debate , and to all the member who have contribute . I hope that , in the limited time available , I have address some of the point discuss this afternoon . in essence , this issue be as much about people as it be about policy and power . we must always remember that behind the statistic be thousand and thousand of real victim who have suffer the shock and distress — as well as the inconvenience and disruption — of have their device snatch . our high street and town centre be fill with people go about their everyday life . as they make their way from place to place , there should be no question but that they be safe , and that their belonging be secure . the notion that they might be pounce upon by thief at any moment be simply unacceptable , and this Government will not tolerate it . our message be clear : Britain ' s street belong to the law - abide majority , not to thief and mugger , and we will do whatever it take to protect the public from those callous and harmful crime . I be in the middle of writing , " we all know what the issue and problem be , " and then the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Weald of Kent ( Katie Lam ) , start speak . I thank the hon . member for Dewsbury and Batley ( Iqbal Mohamed ) for his contribution , include his mention of universal credit . we have start encourage people to do everything online , so when their phone get take away , all of that also get take away . I also thank my partner in crime , my hon . friend the Member for Stratford and Bow ( Uma Kumaran ) — I will not tell you about any of the adventure we have be on , Madam Deputy Speaker . Stratford be a very busy centre and attract a lot of crime , so it be important that we get this right . she also mention our Mayor of London , Sadiq Khan , and all the work he be do on this issue . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) for the intervention he make on the issue of e - bike that have be illegally hack so that they go fast . generally , there be two rider on the back ; one steer they in , and the other take the phone . this be a problem that we have to get to grip with , as my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend ( Mary Glindon ) and the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) say . at the end of the day , we need to get to the bottom of this , because it be not petty crime , but a huge crime that affect our street . the shadow Minister completely miss the point , but as she speak about free speech , let I say this : when the police arrest the last person who call I the n - word and other racist slur , they thank I for take a far - right extremist off the street , because that person be not on their radar , and the police be shake . the shadow Minister may want to hold a protective shield over those who be racist , sexist , misogynistic and homophobic , but we do not . all I can say be : thank goodness the Conservatives be no long in power . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the matter of mobile phone theft . gravesham : river Crossings Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Keir Mather . ) I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for this opportunity to come to the House to discuss the importance of river crossing in my constituency of Gravesham . I be grateful to the Minister for give up his time today to respond to the debate . I wish to cover two crossing : one old and closed , which be the Gravesend to Tilbury ferry ; and one planned and very expensive , which be the low Thames crossing . for those who do not know , Gravesham constituency be a river community . we be bind by the River Thames , with all its history , just as we member be here in the House , and we be only 20 mile apart . for much of the history of the borough , there have be river crossing , certainly since roman time . accord to one esteemed local historian , Christoph Bull , the right of long ferry be exclusively give to gravesend waterman to provide a river service to and from London . this be a bit of a history lesson , but that be confirm by the King in 1401 in a charter , the aim be to help rebuild the town after a fire in 1380 . since then , there have be a river crossing in place between the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Thurrock ( Jen Craft ) and mine . it have connect the two ancient kingdom of Kent and Essex for eon , enable travel for trade , leisure and tourism . today , the Port of London Authority , which control all travel of boat up and down the Thames , be base in my constituency , and I pay tribute to it . the Royal National Lifeboat Institution have a base on the river in Gravesend , and I know that the House would want to extend our thank to it for the work it do across the country . the people of Gravesham and of my hon . friend ' s constituency of Thurrock be river people . many family , include mine , have link to the river . my late father - in - law , Trevor Mochrie , be a Gravesend tug seaman , who work on the river early in his career , before work on the high sea . as the river be the main artery to and from London , Gravesham be and be strong on industry , and it be a source of employment in tourism and leisure . in particular , we have our Gravesend regatta , which be celebrate 179 year . it be run before that , but it be make official 179 year ago by the council , because of some very unparliamentary dispute that take place about who win a race . I place on record my tribute to the committee , its chair , Shane Cleaver , and all the volunteer for keep this tradition go in a sportsmanlike fashion , and there have be no further dispute of that kind . give that extensive local history and heritage , it be to our dismay and that of resident , business and visitor from Thurrock and gravesend that Thurrock council and Kent county council cease fund the Gravesend - Tilbury ferry service last year . since the ending of that service , local business have suffer significantly . they have tell I that it have impact on people ' s ability to get to and from work , and that they have lose many people who can not bear the thought of take the Dartford crossing in order to get to work . on our high street , one particular business , Marie ' s Tea Room , which use to cater for the pass trade from the large cruise ship that use to dock at Tilbury , have be impact to the point that it can no long employ a member of staff . these thing have impact , and I be sure it be the same across our high street . I have be run a petition , as have my hon . friend the Member for Thurrock , and there have be other . our petition have garner thousand of signature — Motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Keir Mather . ) our petition , which have garner thousand of signature , call for the return of the ferry service . it be clear that business and resident want their ferry back . at present , there be a desire for people to travel by public transport , which I support . People should leave their car at home , but they need option . previously , the option be a 10 - minute jump across the water . now , the option be a train into London and back out again , or multiple bus to get through the Dartford crossing . all this be cost we precious time . if we as a society want to support public transport , relieve congestion on the road should be at the heart of everything we do . take the example of the Woolwich ferry , which , by parliamentary statute , must be run and be not able to charge . I be not ask — tempt as it be — for that to be the case for the Gravesend - Tilbury ferry , but I be ask the local authority to protect these valuable transport route . in the last 20 year , we have see two new public transport option that my constituent in Bexleyheath and Crayford benefit from when cross the river : the dockland light railway in Woolwich , and the Elizabeth line into Abbey Wood . but as my hon . friend have say , there be no public transport option from Woolwich to the Kent coast that she and my constituent can benefit from . will she join I in welcome some exploration of river and other public transport option through south - east London and into Kent ? I absolutely agree . the Thames Clipper be a remarkable service that be support by Transport for London , but it need to be subsidise . it be look at expand into the estuary . take on board the desire of my hon . friend ' s constituent and mine to be able to travel via the river , I think that be a very good proposal that we in this place should get behind . I know from my past role as a councillor on Gravesham borough council that operator be very interested in introduce a ferry service . in fact , gravesend pier be sell to Thames Clipper in order to make way for the exciting development of the new public transport route to London and beyond . however , Gravesham borough council be not a local highway authority , so it have neither the status nor the money to develop this kind of public transport and hold the contract . give the local government reorganisation that be come , the council be prepared to do it , but it can not be leave with no money , because that would be poor financial management . the ferry service could be a public - private partnership — if business be listen , perhaps we can come together with the Government and fund it through money that go down to local authority . I will speak briefly about the low Thames crossing , which may not be the solution or the silver bullet . it sit within Gravesham and go through the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Thurrock . it be fair to say that we have be vocally opposed to it since the outset , particularly because of its significant impact on Gravesham . quite rightly , Labour have promise that local resident will see the benefit of major infrastructure project , and it be in this vein that I will ask the Minister some question , which I hope he will be able to follow up . I would welcome a private meeting , if need , to go through this issue with his Department for Transport colleague . the low Thames crossing will have an impact on Gravesham . option C be choose nearly a decade ago under the Tories . it be the most expensive option compare with another bridge at Dartford . I do regret the loss of ancient woodland , the impact on air quality and the congestion of our local road . the Conservatives take a " dither and delay " approach . therefore , while a new bridge could have already be build have it be fund , we be still wait . resident of Northfleet , Gravesend and the village along the A227 in my constituency already suffer with congestion and gridlock when the Dartford crossing go down or when the A2 , which be a huge arterial road into London , have problem . Gravesham and Gravesend will be cut in half , yet sandwich between the Dartford crossing and the propose low Thames crossing . the modelling datum from National Highways show that congestion level will be back to what they be now within four year of the opening of the low Thames crossing . resident be worried about get to dare not Valley hospital for urgent care when these problem occur on our road at peak time or , sadly , when there be accident . give people a choice of reliable public transport option would ease that congestion . if there be reliable public transport option — bus , river boat , river ferry — to take car off the road , there would be great capacity on the road for when such unfortunate congestion event occur . the wide impact of the tunnel need to be consider . currently , we fear that the A227 will be use as a rat run to access the M20 . when the original plan for the low Thames crossing be think of , there be go to be an upgrade at Bluebell hill . sadly , under the Conservatives , that be cut back and then cut back far . unless that junction be improve , sadly , the village in my constituency will be bear the brunt of the hugely increase number of vehicle travel to the M20 . I would like some assurance about the low Thames crossing , and I have some question to which I would like answer in the day to come . how will National Highways ensure that the year of construction and of delay will minimally impact Gravesham resident ? how will the traffic get to and from the low Thames crossing without impact local road ? indeed , there be talk of use the river for bring in equipment and material . what power exist to ensure that local road be not use as rat run , and who will be hold accountable for that ? our local infrastructure , such as housing , will be impact by the influx of worker . we would like a halt on people work on the low Thames crossing move into the area , because we already face a significant housing crisis in the area . other thing that could be affect include leisure and health service , so will such wide infrastructure project be increase in the future ? what accountability be there for the modelling datum ? as I have say , four year on , and the congestion will be at the same level , which will have a wide impact . local resident have raise that concern with I , but who can I hold accountable ? we be all local mp , and it be right that we ask the tough question and make request for our constituency . so I kindly request the Minister to look at restore the Gravesend to Tilbury ferry and sustainably maintain in perpetuity as a decent public transport option , and it could be subsidise and promote from a small proportion of the toll on the low Thames crossing . we want a guarantee , with accountability , that Gravesend business and resident be at the front and centre of the new job . we have deprive ward in Gravesham , which be among the top 10 most deprive area , and we want those people to have access to such skill . I hope member understand that Gravesham and Thurrock will be most impact by this programme . it be only right that those resident see some of the benefit , especially as at the moment " local " be consider to be a local resident or a local person who be employ within a 20 - mile radius . now , that be half of London . I ask that we capture that information from a five - mile radius . I be not say all of it should be local , but we need to ensure that local people and business be encourage to apply and take up those job . on the mitigation and accountability for the rat running that will ensue on the A227 base on the wide road modelling , there be the issue of propose toll . we be directly opposite the large unitary authority of Thurrock . the resident of Thurrock enjoy a resident ' discount scheme . in Gravesham , however , such a scheme have not be promote , yet very many of my resident use the Dartford crossing on a regular basis , especially now that the tilbury crossing be down . I therefore ask the Minister if Gravesham could be include in the Dartford crossing scheme while the low Thames crossing be be build and thereafter in perpetuity . I want to raise mitigation for the environmental impact . we know the terrible air quality in Dartford and we do not want that in Gravesham . how can we improve both place and protect Gravesham resident ? finally , on housing , a vast array of our land that could have be develop for housing be now no long available . in conclusion , I thank the Minister in advance for his upcoming reply and to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for this Adjournment debate . Most of all , I would like to thank the resident , business and visitor of Gravesham . Gravesham have a long history on the river and we would really like to see the return of the Gravesend - Tilbury ferry crossing . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Gravesham ( Dr Sullivan ) for secure this debate . we call each other our sister across the river , as we be separate by a small stretch of the River Thames . I want to very briefly add my contribution on the importance of the Tilbury ferry , as we call it on my side of the river . my hon . friend have speak at length about the history of the Tilbury ferry , and it do have a long and proud history . we always refer to it as have be grant to we by Henry VIII . it run continuously for the good part of 500 year until bankruptcy by a Tory council in Thurrock take it out . I be really determined to see its return . the ferry be personal and special for I . I have many childhood memory of take the Tilbury ferry across the river to gravesend to spend a delightful day on my hon . friend ' s side of the river go to the cafe and there be a lovely shop that sell boardgame — in case hon . member can not tell , I have a penchant for geekery and boardgame be very much up my alley . there be a lovely pub call the Three Daws , where I have spend many a happy time . sadly , we be no long able to visit , because it would mean a 45 - minute to an hour trip over the Dartford crossing and around . indeed , there be congestion daily on the Dartford crossing . when there be more severe issue , as there be today — my husband ring I to say he have to get my daughter from school as her bus can not pick she up due to traffic backing up right into my constituency — it be a huge issue for we . many of my constituent will tonight be sit about 10 minute from their house , unable to get there because of the issue with congestion . clearly , that need to be address . my hon . friend speak eloquently about why we do not feel that the low Thames crossing be necessarily the way to answer the problem of congestion , but I would like to add my voice to say that the Tilbury ferry provide a public transport alternative to use the road . that be the direction of travel we should be look at : make public transport open , accessible and easy to use . when the Minister rise , he may say that the Government be not in the habit of funding boat and river service . my answer would be that we should perhaps explore the art of the possible , and look at what it be possible to do and how we can restore this service . the ferry be not only something wonderful , cultural and historic ; it be actually a key part of public transport infrastructure in my part of the world . we share a lot of health service , so people would take the ferry over the river for that ; I use to see my orthodontist in Gravesend when I be a teenager , which be something I look forward to less than day trip out and visit the caf é s , shall we say . however , it be important . some of my constituent commute over to go to the grammar school in Kent . we also have quite a lot of people who take the river to travel to work ; I understand that the Port of London actually put on a small boat for their staff who live either side of the river . indeed , my brother live for a time over the river , just a short hop on the ferry away — again , that be no long possible . it be really quite upsetting and sad for a lot of we . within about a week of start a petition to try to bring back the Tilbury ferry , I have receive 500 signature ; it now stand at a little over a thousand . we ask people to share their memory and share why they want to bring the ferry back . if we be look at someone come on board — a potential private partner — we want to show that there be an appetite for the ferry and that it will be use , because it be always use . there be never an empty ferry when it be run ; it be always busy throughout the day , any day of the week that it be run . People have share thing like want to go on the ferry one more time before they die — thing that be really quite move . they have share memory of take their grandchild and great - grandchild on it and go on day trip out , as well as travel for work . someone say , " we don ' t have lot of nice thing in our part of the world — the thing that we do have , we want to keep , and the thing that we do have , we want back . " it be absolutely delightful . coincidentally , the Tilbury ferry be exactly the right amount of time that any child can spend on a boat before go mad and get bored : five minute . they see the boat , get on the boat , and be excited ; then they want to leave the boat , but by then the boat be at Gravesend — brilliant . it be a fantastic day out . my plea to the Minister be to consider what my hon . friend the Member for Gravesham have say , particularly in relation to use some of the money that will be generate by the low Thames crossing ; a minuscule proportion could fund the running of this service in perpetuity . it would alleviate that congestion — the congestion that will still exist after about five year of the low Thames cross ' s operation . in the meantime , the Government should look at other way to support the return of this absolutely vital , crucial service for my constituent and those of my hon . friend . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Gravesham ( Dr Sullivan ) for secure this important Adjournment debate on the impact of river crossing on her Gravesham constituency . she say that the charter for the river and her town be from 1401 — I think it be Henry IV , have take over from Richard II . the whole Shakespeare play be about rebellion , and I feel rebellion on the Back Benches at the moment because of how important this subject be to both my hon . friend the Members for Gravesham and for Thurrock ( Jen Craft ) . my hon . friend the Member for Gravesham have be a true champion in this field . she have make a number of representation to I , as she have mention , and to other ministerial colleague call for the reinstatement of the Gravesend - Tilbury ferry service , which end in March 2024 due to a lack of funding . I appreciate the effort and passion that my hon . friend and her sister across the river , my hon . friend the Member for Thurrock — fearsome sister , I would say — have display in support these service , which can provide a quick link between Kent and Essex across the Thames estuary , in particular provide an alternative when there be problem on the Dartford crossing , as have be point out . I recognise that the ferry provide a useful link across the estuary and be very popular with regular user . it be particularly useful to those travel to their respective workplace , and provide an alternative to car journey via Dartford . as my hon . friend well know , there be a number of key industry and employment site in north Kent and south Essex that play an important role in both regional and national economy . we know that the Thames gateway be go to be a massive driver for economic growth in the UK , with both the Amazon plant and CLdN there . we have other ambition for the estuary in term of become a clean energy superpower and drive growth in the maritime sector . I thank my hon . friend for their work with the maritime sector as it affect their constituency . I be sure that they will acknowledge that ferry service run on a private sector basis to meet commercial demand . any decision to provide funding for local ferry service be ultimately a matter for local partner . where local ferry service form part of local transport option , it be for the local transport authority to consider such decision in line with devolution . it be for local authority to decide their transport priority and where to allocate budget . there have be successful example of ferry service receive local funding , include Mersey Ferries in Liverpool and Woolwich Ferry in London , which be both fund and operate by the local transport authority . to support local transport authority , the Government have be clear on their transport priority , with capital funding to support local bus service , improvement to active travel and the maintenance of local road . on that specific point , my hon . friend and I have ask in the past whether it would be possible to use some of the bus funding , which have receive an uplift , to fund the Tilbury ferry . the answer have be that it would not be possible , because it be not a bus — it be fairly obvious that it be not a bus . will the Minister perhaps consider reclassify the Tilbury ferry as a river bus ? no , we can not use those money in that way , but that do not stop we talk in the future with Department official and the private sector about the river to see what be the art of the possible . let we hold that in abeyance , and I will say a little more about that at the end of my speech . the Government be explore all viable funding option for the low Thames crossing . that include private finance option , which would use public seed funding to unlock investment . a road user charge will help finance the low Thames crossing and reduce the burden on the public purse for major infrastructure project . the road user charge regime for the low Thames crossing have not be set , so I urge my hon . friend to make their representation to the Secretary of State , the Roads Minister and I on this matter as it pertain to their local constituency . when we consider the private company and contractor that may come forward , the ask here be whether we could extract a social value — a social good — from the funding for the Tilbury - Gravesend crossing . I recently meet the chief executive of Thames Clippers , which I think own the pier , and that model have be pursue in other part of the country , so , again , it be worthy of exploration with I and my official . across the financial period 2025 - 26 , the Department have allocate Kent county council nearly £ 40 million to support its local highway network , over £ 23 million to support the improvement of bus service , and £ 5 . 7 million to support active travel improvement . that be a significant uplift under this Government . in the same financial period , the Department have allocate Thurrock council nearly £ 3 million to support its local highway network , £ 2 million to support the improvement of bus service and over £ 350 , 000 to support active travel improvement . in addition , the Chancellor recently confirm in the spending review that the £ 3 bus fare cap , which be expect to finish at the end of the year , will be extend until at least March 2027 , benefit both local authority . however , there be limited revenue funding for the local authority , and it will be for they to decide which service to prioritise . I urge all partner in the region and the Members of Parliament who have speak eloquently here today to work together constructively to find appropriate local transport solution , include river service . I have ask my official at the Department for Transport to work closely with local partner to identify any funding opportunity that could become available to help support local plan . I say to my hon . friend the Member for Thurrock that I hope one day she will be able to visit the Three Daws public house once again . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Gravesham for secure this Adjournment debate and for be a doughty champion on this matter in her constituency . question put and agree to . House adjourn .