business before Questions Royal Albert Hall Bill [ Lords ] second reading oppose and defer until Tuesday 3 June ( Standing Order no . 20 ) . oral Answers to Questions Treasury the Chancellor of the Exchequer be ask — Clean Energy Transition : Spending Review what step she be take through the spending review to support the transition to clean energy . the Prime Minister ' s plan for change set out our ambitious but achievable target for clean power by 2030 . we have already announce £ 300 million for offshore wind supply chain , in addition to the significant uplift for the clean industry bonus scheme . these measure support clean energy and growth in the UK ' s industrial heartland , and further detail will be set out at the spending review . successive government have fail to deliver a fair energy transition for worker and community . we have see the devastating closure of the Grangemouth oil refinery , and now we be see uncertainty around the gas storage facility off the east coast . just seven out of 87 offshore oil and gas company be plan to invest anything in renewable energy by 2030 , so the Government must be the one in the drive seat to ensure that our North sea oil and gas worker do not meet the same fate . what discussion have the Minister have with the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero on new financial support to create recruitment and retention pathway for worker move into the clean energy pathway ? our skilled workforce in the oil and gas industry will be important for the continue role of oil and gas in the energy mix , but also for the transition to renewable and net zero energy , as the hon . Lady have point out . that be why we have invest significant sum of money in carbon capture and storage , work with exactly those company , and we will set out detail of further support for the industry at the spending review in the come month . I welcome the £ 200 million commitment to Grangemouth and clean energy through the national wealth fund , and I also welcome the Department ' s confirmation to I recently that that money will not be fetter exclusively to the Project Willow proposal . the need for investment be urgent , with job lose and the broad economic impact impend . we need to move far and fast , so what conversation be Treasury Ministers have with their Cabinet colleague to encourage they to act on the Project willow policy recommendation and deliver investment in Grangemouth ? I thank my hon . friend , who be a champion for his constituency and for industry . as he have allude to , the Government have already make hundred of million of pound available through the national wealth fund for the company in question . we be work to ensure a just transition , harbour the skill of people in Scotland and across the country . we be now in active discussion as the spending review come to an end , and we will be able to present more detail to the House on 11 June . I call the shadow Minister . the Climate Change Committee say that we will need oil and gas until at least 2050 , but rather than maximise North sea production , the Government be tax it out of existence . Harbour Energy have just announce hundred of job loss as a result of the Chancellor ' s 78 % windfall tax . instead of costly transition import , will Ministers use the spending review to think again and focus on an energy policy that will deliver cheap and clean energy that be affordable for consumer and business ? I welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s encouragement . that be why we be invest in home - grow secure energy , include renewable , nuclear and other form of energy . in yesterday ' s UK - EU trade deal — which I be sure the shadow Minister would like to welcome — we have enhance our arrangement with the European Union on electricity trading , enable we to export energy we produce in the UK to the European Union and vice versa . that will ensure energy security , as well as good job and good business in the energy sector , for decade to come . Lifetime Mortgages : support for old People what recent discussion she have have with the Financial Conduct Authority on the adequacy of support from mortgage lender for old people with interest roll - up lifetime mortgage . lifetime mortgage have be regulate by the FCA since 2004 . those rule provide robust consumer protection , include require lender to engage and provide tailor support to all their customer . one of my constituent , a 96 - year - old man , take out in 1990 what he think be a £ 15 , 000 loan , but what be actually an interest roll - up lifetime mortgage . despite pay £ 40 , 000 over the year , he now owe over £ 52 , 000 due to compound interest . he have be deny redress by the financial ombudsman due to time limit , and my team have also contact the FCA and the lender without success . my constituent be now leave to deal with the consequence . will the Minister meet I to discuss this case , and how we can well support other people who have be mi - sell those product ? I be really sorry to hear about the circumstance that my hon . friend ' s constituent be face , and I would be happy to meet she to discuss the issue far . lifetime mortgage be complex financial product , and I suggest that anyone consider equity release seek independent financial advice to help ensure those product be suitable for their need . an increase number of pensioner be reach the end of their mortgage with outstanding borrowing and find themselves unable to meet later - life lending criterion , and this be likely to become even more prevalent in year to come as house price rise continue to outstrip earning . what discussion be the Minister have with lender and the mortgage industry about expand those criterion and give hard - work pensioner who might otherwise be force to seek council support the opportunity to remain in their own home ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise this important issue . I discuss mortgage with lender and , indeed , with the Financial Conduct Authority on a weekly basis , and I will ensure that I pass on his comment . business cost : Impact of Autumn Budget what assessment she have make of the potential impact of the autumn Budget 2024 on cost for business . the Government consider all the policy in the autumn Budget carefully , in the context of the difficult fiscal inheritance that we have receive from the conservative party . the decision to increase employer ' national insurance contribution and reduce the secondary threshold be take to stabilise the public finance and ensure that money be available for our crucial public service , especially the national health service . Johnson ' s of Hedon , a DIY store , have trade successfully for 56 year , but its owner Mike Brooke , who have run it throughout that time , say that the national insurance hike introduce by the Chancellor have finally make the business unviable . be the cruel destruction of Johnson ' s of Hedon , and the job that it provide , deliberate or an accident ? the money from national insurance — which , of course , only come in last month — be be use to fund investment in the national health service . since the general election we have deliver 3 million additional NHS appointment , which benefit constituent in East Yorkshire and throughout the country . as for support business , the trade deal that we secure with the European Union be welcome yesterday by the Confederation of British Industry , the Food & Drink Federation , the Institute of Directors and other , because it will add about £ 9 billion to the size of the UK economy . I call the shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer . only last week the right hon . Lady be trumpet that the economy have turn a corner , but , as she have just say , it be barely a month since her disastrous job tax start to bite . may I ask she precisely which business confidence survey — just one — she can point to which support her assertion that everything be come up rose ? accord to PwC ' s global ceo survey — that be just one of the survey — Britain be the second - good place in the world in which to invest , and that be what this Government be do . the shadow Chancellor simply be not serious , and his party be become completely irrelevant . he talk about job ; 200 , 000 job have be create since the general election . he talk about economic growth ; the UK be now the fast - grow economy in the G7 . he talk about business ; we have secure three trade agreement which be back by british business and british trade union , and the conservative party oppose every single one of they . no wonder even George Osborne have say that the shadow Chancellor have " no credible economic plan " . while the conservative party plummet into irrelevance , this Labour Government will deliver in the national interest . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . in the Budget the Government reduce business rate relief , which be hit small business hard . under current plan , in the next financial year small independent business could see their rate go up by 80 % and chain could see theirs go down by 40 % . I have share that analysis with Ministers ; will the Chancellor please promise that she will look at it personally to ensure that this — I think — unintended consequence do not come to pass and independent business do not close , leave even more of our high street look the same ? the hon . Lady will know that in the Budget , at a cost of about £ 1 . 5 billion , we be able to extend business rate relief , which be due to end entirely under the plan we have inherit from the conservative party . as she will also know , we be reform the way in which business rate work so that there be permanently low rate for hospitality and retail sector , particularly on our high street . public Spending : value for Money what progress she have make on update the Green Book . what comparative assessment she have make of the potential impact of rule for assess value for money in public spending on level of funding allocate in the south - east and the north of England . in January , I announce a review of the Green Book to ensure that it be support fair , objective and transparent advice on public investment across the country , and I be work closely with our mayor , particularly Steve Rotheram , who have champion this issue . since January , the Treasury have be in conversation with over 70 different organisation and individual regionally and nationally to identify area where we can make change to the Green Book and champion investment in the north of England . bear with I on this , Mr Speaker . the previous Conservative Government do not get absolutely everything wrong . they rightly identify that Treasury spending be a powerful tool to rebalance our economy in favour of area like our in the north of England . they then fail to deliver , and voter deliver their verdict at the ballot box . this Government have the opportunity to use this powerful tool and ensure that regional disparity be not far entrench when they look at the Green Book . what reassurance can the Chancellor give my constituent that project such as repair Stepping Hill hospital , or bring the tram - train to Marple , will get a fair crack of the Treasury spending whip ? I totally agree with the hon . Lady . the plan that we inherit from the conservative party see capital spending decline as a share of GDP , which be totally the wrong decision if we want to grow the economy and improve prospect in town and city across the north of England . over the course of this Parliament , we be put £ 113 billion more into capital spending so that we can build the road and rail infrastructure , the energy infrastructure , the digital infrastructure and the housing that our country desperately need . under our reform to the Green Book , we will make sure that we get more investment to the place that need it , include town and city in the north of England . I be grateful to have secure Thursday ' s Adjournment debate on the A66 road improvement project — a key transport link between Cumbria , the north - east and North Yorkshire . Cumbria be a long way from Westminster , and many of we fear that the economic case for major project be stack in favour of the economically active south - east . can the Chancellor reassure I that Cumbria will not be disadvantage when key public spending decision be take ? my hon . friend be a staunch defender of his constituency and region . we will make decision at the spending review , which we will publish on 11 June , but as a proud northern MP , I be absolutely determined that the north get its fair share of investment . night - time economy what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to support growth in the night - time economy . what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to support growth in the night - time economy in Essex . the night - time economy , and the hospitality sector more widely , be the beat heart of our cultural life , bring to life the place we all call home . that be why this Government have cut draught duty and introduce a fair , permanent business rate system . we all want our pub , club and restaurant to thrive . last month , I meet representative of Bournemouth town centre ' s night - time economy at one of the new addition to our high street , Barbara ' s Bier Haus . the sector be incredibly resilient but be grapple with a number of challenge , such as change consumer behaviour and rise cost . one issue that be common across our hospitality and retail sector be prohibitively high business rate . can the Minister update we on the progress that we be make towards business rate reform , and tell we how this will give the night - time economy the security it need to be prosperous ? I completely recognise my hon . friend ' s point . last autumn , alongside announce immediate support for retail , hospitality and leisure property , the Government publish a discussion paper set out our priority for wide reform , and I know the Exchequer Secretary have meet a wide range of business on this subject . we be deliver permanently low business rate for these sector , and we will announce further policy detail at the Budget in the autumn . the Kursaal in Southend — the site of the first theme park in Europe — and the Freight House in Rochford be once iconic venue in my community and central to the night - time economy . over the last 14 year , venue have be force to close and heritage building have be leave empty . what step be the Minister and his Cabinet colleague take to protect the iconic heritage and cultural venue that be the backbone of our evening and local economy ? I have miss out on the particular historical gem that my hon . friend mention , but my daughter be a big fan of Southend so obviously I agree with he wholeheartedly . and the Government agree with my hon . friend , which be why last December we announce the large round of the community ownership fund , award £ 36 million to 85 project across the UK . in fact , I agree with my hon . friend so much that my own office be in the rejuvenate Albert Hall in Swansea , which have have previous incarnation as a cinema , a bingo venue and a music venue — but behaviour in that building be much well these day . just a few week ago , I hold a roundtable in my constituency with ukhospitality and hospitality business , such as hotel , night - time economy business and pub . it be just after the first national insurance rise payment , which mean that those business be devastate and be have few job , few apprentice and less investment . what they be worried about , as they look to the future , be whether the Chancellor will be raise taxis again in the come month . can the Minister assure my business that the Chancellor will not be come back for more ? what the sector be do be welcome the trade deal do by the Government yesterday . what it be worried about be a conservative party that can not bring itself to welcome a single trade deal with any country around the world . the party of Robert Peel have turn its back on the entire world . the Hop Tub in Hurstpierpoint , the Hop Sun in Haywards Heath and the Brickworks in Burgess Hill be three fantastic microbrewery serve the constituent of Mid Sussex . give the pressure of national insurance and the challenge of business rate , what be the Treasury do to support these innovative business ? I think everybody in this House enjoy the proliferation of microbrewery around the country , which be why the Government be support draught beer and cider by knock 1p off the price of a pint at the Budget last year . it be important not only that we support our pub , but the brewer who produce the content that be sell in they . I call the shadow Minister . Sacha Lord , Labour ' s former night - time economy adviser , say that it be tough for the hospitality industry today than it be even during the pandemic , but the Chancellor be ignore his advice and push ahead with a cocktail of cost that the Night Time Industries Association have call a death sentence for our pub , bar and club . can the Minister and the Chancellor not see that the future of the industry be fatally undermine by their anti - growth taxation ? what be anti - growth be the conservative party , which sit over 15 long year of decline and completely unprecedented economic stagnation . our job be to support the hospitality and leisure sector more generally . that be why we be reduce red tape through the cross - Government licensing taskforce ; why we be permanently cut business rate , move away from the year - by - year chaotic system put in place by the conservative party ; and why we be engage all the time with the Hospitality Sector Council . UK - India Free Trade Agreement what assessment her Department have make of the potential impact of the double contribution convention in the UK - India free trade agreement on level of tax revenue . the trade deal that we have secure with India add around £ 5 billion to the UK economy . on social security contribution , if somebody who work for an indian business be post to the UK , or someone from a UK business be post to India , they will not pay two lot of contribution : if you be pay into the indian provident fund in India , you will not be pay national insurance contribution here ; and if you be pay national insurance contribution here , you will not be pay into the indian provident fund . on top of that , to come to the UK to work from India you will need to pay just over £ 3 , 000 for the NHS surcharge to be able to access those service and £ 769 in visa fee , contribute to the UK Exchequer . I note that the Chancellor do not actually address the point of the cost to the Exchequer of the double contribution convention , which the Government have agree with India . indian worker send here by their employer on intra - company transfer cost more in taxis than british worker , but that flip under this deal : indian worker will be tax less and cost less to employ than british rival for do the same job . that will not only cost the Treasury lose revenue , which the Chancellor do not admit , but displace british worker , suppress wage and increase immigration . will the Chancellor commit now to monitor the effect of the agreement and , if the datum show any of that happen , promise to scrap this charter for immigration with India ? this deal be worth £ 5 billion to the UK economy , and it also benefit british worker be post by their company to work in India . the Conservatives be now in the absurd situation of oppose the US deal , the India deal and the deal with the EU . they be simply not serious . the India deal reduce tariff on Scotch whisky by more than half and bring into the UK more good job pay decent wage — the Conservatives seem to be against that . special steel business Paralloy in Billingham , in my constituency , have tell I that uncertainty on international trade have recently leave its customer run for the hill . do the Chancellor of the Exchequer agree that now we have trade deal come along like bus — with India , the US and the EU — we can offer reliability and confidence to important local business such as Paralloy that want to export to the world ? steel be one of the sector that will benefit particularly from the trade deal this Government have secure , free ourselves of tariff on steel go into the US . indeed , the deal we secure with the EU yesterday mean that we avoid tariff on steel be sell into european market , as well as now be exempt from the european carbon border adjustment mechanism , which be good for steel and good for job right across Britain . Spending Review : Cross - departmental Planning what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to ensure cross - departmental planning in the development of the spending review . the Treasury have reform the spending review process to ensure that it facilitate genuine collaboration across department . as part of this spending review , the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster and I have meet Secretaries of State multilaterally in mission cluster , which have bring together department to agree cross - departmental priority , increase transparency , reduce duplication and align spending with mission delivery across Whitehall , while learn every possible lesson from the failure of the Conservatives to ensure that it be never repeat ever again . some 9 , 000 UK medical graduate compete with 15 , 000 overseas graduate for postgraduate training , mean that many of our own graduate simply can not progress into high professional training , and either go abroad themselves or leave medicine . do the Minister agree that the Treasury have a crucial role to co - ordinate spending on medical university education by the Department for Education and on postgraduate training by the Department of Health and Social Care , so as to ensure that public money spend on medical student education be not waste ? the Government be commit to train the staff the NHS need as part of our 10 - year plan . international staff clearly play an important role in the mix of staff that we have , but we also want to create opportunity for people across the country to work in our national health service . that be why , thank to change this Government have make , we have already be able to recruit more than 1 , 500 additional gps since October who would otherwise not have be able to seek that type of employment . while discuss the spending review , will the Treasury get the Agriculture Secretary and the Energy Secretary together in the same room , and make sure that agriculture receive the funding it need and that energy be not allow to charge agriculture , effectively , for its loss of income ? in other word , will the Chancellor ensure we be not rob Peter to pay Paul ? a meeting of that nature have already take place as part of our mission - lead approach to Government . we continue to engage with the Departments for Energy Security and Net Zero and for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs on these issue , as the right hon . Gentleman suggest — it be exactly what we mean when we talk about cross - departmental collaboration . as the right hon . Gentleman know , further detail will be set out in the spending review in due course . northern town : fund what step she be take to increase level of funding for northern town . I be pleased to go with my hon . friend to Darwen to visit the 100th banking hub , which be roll out just a few month ago . we also visit the thriving Darwen market in one of his local town . we will set out at the spending review how we will spend the £ 113 billion extra that we be put in to capital spending , compare with the plan we inherit from the Conservatives . of course , we will ensure that town and city , include across the north of England , benefit from that investment . I thank the Chancellor for that answer — the Government ' s commitment to the north be absolutely clear . we very much enjoy our visit to Darwen market . at the same time , however , history tell we that small town , like those that make up Rossendale and Darwen , can far too easily get leave behind and not feel the benefit of major infrastructure investment , despite be the very community that need to see and feel change the most . do the Chancellor agree that as we implement our investment and growth strategy , and deliver the review of the Green Book , we must put our leave - behind community first ? as part of every major investment decision , we should ask the question : what do this do for our most deprived and leave - behind neighbourhood ? it be only by target investment where it be need most that we can ensure that every community feel the benefit of the growth that this Government will bring . my hon . friend be a proud champion of the town and village of Rossendale and Darwen . we will make sure that we use our Green Book review to properly assess the benefit of all this government ' s investment . on top of that capital investment , the people of Rossendale and Darwen be benefit from the 3 million additional appointment that we have deliver , which have lead to reduction in NHS waiting list , and also the increase in the national living wage , which will make work people in his constituency and across the country well off . the town and village of the lake and the dale in Cumbria be proud to host 20 million visitor every single year — we be the UK ' s big visitor destination outside of London — yet we get almost no support whatsoever for the cost incur by those visitor on our highway and other infrastructure , health service and police . will the Chancellor look at funding allocation to make sure that those service that support the resident and the visitor be properly fund ? the Green Book reform will ensure that we properly assess the benefit of investment in different part of the UK , but the people of Cumbria and the lake will benefit from the record investment in the NHS , the roll - out of nursery and free breakfast club at primary school , as well as the increase in the national living wage , from which many worker in sector such as hospitality and retail in the hon . member ' s constituency will directly benefit . one way to get Treasury official to start focus more on northern town would be to move the Treasury up north . after experience our rail network and our infrastructure , they may very quickly invest more money in the area . be there any plan to move any Treasury office to the north ? no . 11 Market Street , Chorley ? [ laughter . ] this Government have commit to increase the proportion of civil servant who work in the north of England . but we already have a hub that we be expand in Darlington , where eight department work , include official from the Treasury . the Treasury be very mindful of the importance of invest right across the north of England — in Darlington , Leeds , Cumbria , Rossendale and Darwen and many other constituency beside . the prosperity of northern town be very much dependent on good transport connection . will the Chancellor ensure that National Highways be adequately fund , so that it can improve access to the port and town of Immingham through improvement to the a180 , and also that the Department for Transport have adequate fund to meet the modest amount that be need to fund an extension of the King ' s Cross to Lincoln train service through to Grimsby and Cleethorpes ? I shall make sure that the Transport Secretary hear those request , but the hon . Gentleman know that our investment in British Steel , which will save that company , be set to increase the number of job there . that will make a massive difference to his constituent , as will the investment in renewable energy in the North sea , particularly around Immingham , create good job and pay decent wage in his constituency and in many other , too . Spending Review : economic Growth what step she be take through the spending review to help increase level of economic growth . what step she be take through the spending review to help increase level of economic growth . what step she be take through the spending review to help increase level of economic growth . I know that my hon . friend be work closely with the local Labour council in Southport to regenerate the local town centre , and we will make sure that this Government back he every step of the way . whether it be the Marine Lake Events Centre , the Enterprise Arcade or the new Market Quarter in my Southport constituency , my town have benefit from state - lead investment in neighbourhood and the public realm . do the Chancellor agree that investment policy of this sort be essential to drive economic growth in our region and nation and will help we to finally turn the page on the fail austerity policy of the conservative party ? I absolutely agree , and that be why we have reverse the Conservatives ' decision to cut capital spending . instead , we be preserve that capital investment , which mean spend £ 113 billion more on road , rail , energy , home and digital infrastructure than would have be spend in the plan we inherit . we be also spend on day - to - day thing , such as make sure that we have police on our street , and work with our mayor , include Mayor Steve Rotheram , to ensure we get investment into the place that most need it . small business be the backbone of our economy . in Ilford South we have many small business , range from restaurant like Delhi O Delhi , Mr Bunns Bakery , tea shop like Mi Chaii to local shop like the Chopra convenience store . they make Ilford an amazing place to eat , shop and do business . will the Chancellor join I in commend the local business that make the high street the beat heart of Ilford South , and will she lay out what step she be take to support these entrepreneur ? at the Budget , we more than double the employment allowance to £ 10 , 500 to take many small business out of pay national insurance altogether . on corporation tax , we have maintain the small profit rate to help small business , and to help entrepreneur raise finance and grow , the Government have extend the enterprise investment scheme and the venture capital trust scheme . I very much add my word of support to business across Ilford , and I commend the work my hon . friend do to champion they . Clwyd North be a proud coastal constituency , home to a dedicated hospitality sector with many small business , include the recently open Bobcats Coffee , where young entrepreneur Bobby be an example to we all . economic circumstance have be tough after a decade of neglect by the Tories . will the Chancellor outline the Treasury ' s plan to support the small business that be such a vital part of our local economy ? from the next financial year , this Government will introduce permanently low rate for high street , retail , hospitality and leisure property with rateable value below £ 500 , 000 , and we be do that exactly to support the sort of business that my hon . friend champion . I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . early this month , Harbour Energy announce that it would be cut 25 % of its onshore workforce , blame the Government ' s punitive fiscal position and challenge regulatory environment . when the news be announce , the Chancellor say that this be just a commercial decision by one company , so how do she explain the other energy sector job that have be lose in north - east Scotland in just the last few week ? Belmar Engineering be enter liquidation , with 48 job loss . well - Safe Solutions face 45 job loss . Beam , a subsea technology company , have make all 200 staff redundant . with Harbour Energy ' s cut of 25 % of its workforce — 250 job — we be talk about 600 job in total . how can the Chancellor explain that , and how will she support the industry in the spending review ? my hon . friend the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury be work closely with business right across the energy sector . the previous Government increase the rate of tax on energy company to 75 % , and we increase it by three percentage point to 78 % , reflect the fact that energy company have enjoy huge profit since Russia ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine . when people ' s bill have go up , it be right that we ask the energy company make those profit to contribute a little more . what change will the Chancellor introduce in the spring statement to compensate for the growth - threaten sword of Damocles she have just place over the scottish fishing industry ? she should know , but probably do not , that 70 % of revenue from fishing and aquaculture come from Scotland , and she should know , but probably do not , that the fishing industry in Scotland be 50 time large for Scotland ' s economy than for the UK ' s . can she explain what discussion she have with the Scottish Fishermen ' s Federation or the Scottish Government before make this damaging decision ? I be very pleased that the Scottish salmon association welcome the trade deal that we secure with the EU yesterday . some 70 % of the fish that be catch in UK water be sell into european market . that will now benefit from the sanitary and phytosanitary deal that we have secure within that deal . we have roll over the deal that the previous Government secure , give certainty to fisherman in Scotland and across the UK . we have make it easy for they to export into european market . we have ensure that we can sell shellfish again into european market , and we announce yesterday the £ 360 million package of measure to support coastal and fishing industry . the Scottish National party be now in an absurd situation where it support Reform and the Tories in oppose the deal with the EU . I welcome the Chancellor ' s answer on growth . she have be a strong champion of the Oxford - Cambridge growth corridor , but my constituent be concerned to know that she will lend her support to Lord Vallance ' s effort to join up across Departments and ensure that there be the social infrastructure to support the growth . my constituent worry that hospital , school and road will not keep up with the ambitious pace that Lord Vallance be propose . that be an opportune question , because I will be meet Lord Vallance this afternoon to discuss the work he be take forward on the Ox - Cam corridor to bring more good job , pay good wage , not only to Oxford and Cambridge , but , crucially , to the town and city in between . some of the extra money we be put into capital investment will absolutely be go to support the huge growth opportunity in that part of the world . I call the shadow Minister . of course , the good way to improve economic growth be for this Chancellor to stop punish business with high taxis . within the spending review , the key be to improve public sector productivity . as the Chancellor know , one of the key aspect in do that be the use of technology . this Government have substantial advantage over the next few year with major advance in artificial intelligence technology , but those can only be capture if the Treasury set clear direction for Departments , include incentive and penalty . what directive have his Majesty ' s Treasury give to Departments to improve productivity through the adoption of artificial intelligence ? specifically , do that advice include a requirement for the use of agentic AI during the multi - year spending period ? I think the hon . Gentleman be go to welcome the investment of Universal Studios in Bedfordshire , which will be a massive boon to the county ' s economy . on support the adoption of AI , we be do two key thing . first , we be support that sector invest in the UK , and the deal we secure with the US will help bring more investment into our digital sector . secondly , and crucially , we be improve the productivity of our public service . the hon . Gentleman will see more about that when we publish the spending review on 11 June . we be absolutely determined to boost productivity in the public sector , after the mess in which it be leave by the Conservatives . vulnerable Families : Tax System Support what step she be take through the tax system to support vulnerable family . the Government be commit to keep taxis for work people as low as possible . the personal allowance mean those earn below £ 12 , 570 pay no tax . at our first Budget , we decide not to extend the freeze on personal tax threshold , which be implement by the previous Government . I thank the Minister for his response , but what short and long - term assessment have Ministers make of the cost to the taxpayer of the deep cut in grant for therapy for some of the most vulnerable and traumatise child in our country through the adoption and special guardianship support fund ? give the Treasury ' s intransigence in put more money into the fund to meet rise demand , it be likely that adoption and kinship care placement will fail , result in more child in the care system in the short term . in the long term , sadly , we know that care - experienced child be four time more likely to end up with a criminal conviction . there be a moral and economic case to support this fund properly . I very much recognise , both as a constituency MP and as a Minister , the importance of make sure that adoptive parent can build a strong family unit with their adoptive child . if I may make a broad point , the only reason we can invest in public service be because of difficult decision we have take around taxation . the problem with the Liberal Democrats and other party on the Opposition Benches be that they be happy to support the extra funding for public spending , but not the tax rise necessary to pay for it . this be not an issue on which to make a party political point . the reality be that a 40 % cut to the adoption and special guardianship support fund will be deeply impactful for young people who have experience significant trauma — abuse , neglect and so much more . give that our mental health service be not fit for purpose at the moment , it be imperative that we make the right investment so that those young people be not deny a life course opportunity if that fund be cut . will the Minister review the decision and ensure that we have the proper funding that young people need ? as my hon . friend will know , spend decision be for the Chief Secretary of the Treasury to discuss with Departments . I make the general point that investment in mental health , for instance , which she mention , be possible only because of the decision we have take on taxation to ensure that we can support public spending on mental health service and on support for young people . Pension saving : investment return what step she be take to help increase return on investment from pension saving . that be absolutely the right question . we all understandably hear call for high rate of pension saving , but the prior question be this : how do we ensure that saver get the good bang for their buck for every penny they save ? the forthcoming pension scheme Bill will help make that happen , with big pension scheme and few small pension pot , drive down cost and drive up save rate for pensioner . can the Minister share with I , as chair of the reconstitute all - party parliamentary group on pension and growth , any plan for how county that be outside mayoral authority , such as Staffordshire , could benefit from pension reform to encourage more investment in the UK , to support infrastructure , job and local regeneration ? I certainly can . our reform to the local government pension scheme will support local investment in every part of England and Wales . our defence spending plan will be feel on the ground — total defence spending in the west midland total £ 1 . 6 billion a year . we be build reservoir again , include one in the west midland . we be also get the country trading once again , include business in Tamworth , where PI - KEM , a specialist chemical supplier , recently win a major export order , with £ 100 , 000 in UK Export Finance support . Britain , and Tamworth , be open for business . I want to ask about 18 - year - old , who be just start off , be encourage to take out a pension . whenever I be 18 , my mother take I down to see John Thompson , the pension man in Ballywalter , and he say , " you ' re go to take a pension . " I ask , " what for , Mum ? " she say , " you ' re take a pension . " so I take the pension . do the Minister agree that what everybody really need be somebody like my mother to encourage they to take a pension ? I do not know where that be go , but I know that I speak for everybody in the House when I say that the whole country need someone like the hon . Gentleman ' s mother . economic growth : South Yorkshire and Derby what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help increase economic growth in South Yorkshire . what step she have take to help increase economic growth in Derby . Kick - start economic growth be this Government ' s no . 1 mission . from the next financial year , South Yorkshire combine authority will receive a single flexible funding pot through its integrated settlement , and the East Midlands combine authority will benefit from a new advanced manufacturing and logistic park , unlock up to £ 1 billion of investment . both area will benefit from £ 240 million of investment towards trailblazer to tackle economic inactivity . the speciality steel site at stocksbridge in my constituency have a strategically significant , highly specialist capability to produce world - lead steel that be crucial to our national defence , aerospace and energy industry . the site employ 650 people and have an excellent skill training centre . I welcome the Government ' s £ 2 . 5 billion commitment to our UK steel industry . what discussion have the Chancellor have with the Department for Business and Trade to ensure that the government do everything they can to secure the british steel industry by use our domestic steel asset productively , and in particular the Stocksbridge speciality steel site ? although I will not get into detailed discussion about one individual company , last year the Government set out the £ 2 . 5 billion steel fund in the Budget to preserve and grow steel manufacturing in the UK . in the trade deal we have secure with the US and with the EU in the last couple of week , we have reduce tariff on steel export , which will be good for the british steel industry . shockingly , in Derby South 62 % of adult in the community be financially vulnerable , which be far above the national average of 38 % . to lift people out of this vicious cycle , we need a grow economy , but for those who be worried about how they will make it to the next payday , dread an unexpected bill or struggle to feed their family , the benefit of growth can feel mile out of reach . will the Chancellor outline how her plan for growth will put money in people ' s pocket and deliver change for those in our struggle community ? we will shortly publish a financial inclusion strategy , as well as extend the household support fund to support some of the most vulnerable . there be huge opportunity in Derby , as my hon . friend know . I be at Rolls Royce in Derby just last week . what we be do on trade deal , particularly with the US , hugely support our aerospace sector , along with the increase spending on defence to 2 . 5 % of GDP , which help to invest in great british firm and , indeed , in great british steel . I be aware that Derby ' s economy be blight last November by a foul smell say to be emanate from its local water treatment work . similar be true of my constituency , due to the failure of Southern Water ' s air scrub system . will the Chancellor ensure that the spending review grant the Environment Agency the resource it need to crack down on smell nuisance so that the water company get a grip on the matter , for the benefit of local growth and our economy ? supplementary question must be relevant to the question on the Order Paper — forget it . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . this Government be secure economic growth . last week , the number publish show that the economy grow by 0 . 7 % in the first quarter of this year , include an 8 % increase year on year in investment spending . we be now the fast - grow economy in the G7 . since the general election , there have be four cut in interest rate , 200 , 000 job create and three trade deal secure . Britain ' s economy be strong , but I will continue to do everything in my power to ensure that work people be well off . Westminster be once again buzz with the late u - turn , speculation and briefing over the Chancellor ' s policy on the winter fuel allowance and the two - child benefit cap . there be less of a buzz for the visitor to Canterbury food bank , however , which last month distribute enough food to make 13 , 545 meal , in a 47 % rise on the same period last year . will the Chancellor end the serious anxiety of those experience fuel and food poverty now and reverse those policy ? the only reason that we have be able to grow the economy and get those cut in interest rate , which help work family in Canterbury and right across our country , be because we have return stability to our economy . that mean never make a policy commitment without be able to say where the money come from , which be what get our country into a mess under the previous Government . we have set out the policy that we need to put investment into the NHS and secure our public finance . I join my hon . friend in welcome the official opening of the Charles Hammond berth . as she know , we set up great British Energy in Scotland , bring forward £ 300 million of investment ahead of the spending review to secure job and supply chain . fund for the Port of Cromarty Firth , announce in March , be expect to support up to 1 , 000 highly skilled job , while our uplift to the clean energy bonus will support offshore wind supply chain across the country . that be yet another example of the Government work with business and of a Labour Government deliver for the people of Scotland . I call the shadow Chancellor . will the Chancellor explain what the Economic Secretary to the Treasury mean last week when she say that there will be no tax rise on individual at the autumn Budget ? will the Chancellor similarly confirm that there will be no tax increase on business ? in our manifesto , we set out that we would not increase taxis on work people — that is , the income tax , national insurance or vat that they pay . that be why we also reverse the previous Government ' s decision to increase fuel duty , which would have have a disastrous effect on work people in our country . we will set out all other tax policy at the Budget . what many up and down the country be ask be why that manifesto pledge not to impose taxis on work people be break . last week the Pensions Minister confirm to the House that the Government would never interfere with the fiduciary duty of pension trustee to get the good return for their member , but when the Chancellor be question on that topic by Bloomberg the very same day , she say : " I be never go to say never " . this be chaos . the Government can not even speak with one voice . it be clear that the right hon . Lady and the Pensions Minister can not both be right , so will she now put the record straight ? we have secure an agreement with the big pension company to invest on a voluntary basis in UK unlisted equity and infrastructure , which be something the Conservatives never achieve . we be get investment into british infrastructure and british business because that be the way to grow the economy and support work people . will my right hon . friend outline the step be take in the forthcoming spending review to ensure that increase defence spending will stimulate economic growth , so that supply chain company , such as Collins Aerospace in my constituency , can continue to strengthen national defence capability while boost our local economy , job and quality apprenticeship ? as my hon . friend know , the Government be commit to increase spending on defence to 2 . 5 % of gdp , with an ambition to go far to 3 % in the next Parliament when economic and fiscal condition allow . as part of that increase in spending , we be make sure that UK company and UK worker get the benefit , include in place such as Wolverhampton , through apprenticeship , good job and good growth . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . yesterday the Chancellor say that she understand the concern that some people have about the limit at which the winter fuel payment be remove . do she therefore now agree that restrict the eligibility so tightly be a mistake ? as the hon . Lady know , when I become Chancellor last year , we inherit a £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance — not in some year in the future , but in the financial year that we be already three or four month into . this mean that we have to make difficult and urgent decision to put our public finance back on a firm footing — because , unlike the Conservatives , I will never play fast and loose with the public finance . labour - lead Ipswich borough council recently announce investment to reopen the iconic Grimwades building in our town centre , which have be leave vacant for more than a decade . this local ambition match the Government ' s national initiative , but challenge remain , so what step be the Government take to go even far and reform the unfair business rate system for good ? we be determined to go far and fast to reform business rate , which be why we will publish an update paper in the summer . I be also glad that we can work with council such as Ipswich to ensure that we can turn around town centre after year of conservative decline . with interest rate still high , what assessment have the Chancellor make of the number of homeowner go into mortgage arrear and the impact that be have on family right across the UK ? we be in weekly touch with the Financial Conduct Authority , which regulate mortgage , and under this government we have see four interest rate cut since the election , which be bring mortgage rate down for hard - work people across the country . do the Chancellor agree that four interest rate cut , three trade deal , two successive quarter of growth and almost 1 % of growth announce last week show that our plan for change be work ? do she also agree that it be now essential that this House support the Government ' s Planning and Infrastructure Bill and other effort to boost growth and put money in the pocket of my constituent in Ealing Southall ? I very much agree , but what be truly extraordinary be that the Conservatives , Reform and the Scottish National party have vote against or abstain on the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , and they do not support any of the trade deal that we have secure to support work people in our country . my Hazel Grove constituent be content to pay their fair share of tax , but they be understandably disappointed when his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs overcharge and then ghost they . Gail from Romiley be a foster carer who be owe a tax repayment . she repeatedly contact HMRC over a nine - month period , but it be only when my superstar casework team get involve that she get a £ 1 , 200 rebate . what assurance can minister give my constituent that HMRC be adequately resource to give they the support they need to pay their fair share of tax ? I be sorry to hear about the experience of the hon . Lady ' s constituent . to reassure she and her constituent , one of my priority as chair of the HMRC board be to improve HMRC ' s day - to - day performance . we have see the percentage of telephony adviser attempt handle go from 59 % last March to 80 % this March . it will remain a priority for I to modernise and digitise the service . the european emission trading scheme have a carbon price that be 50 % high than the UK ' s . what assessment have the Chancellor make of the impact of join the scheme on inflation in this country ? as my hon . friend know , sometimes the UK carbon price have be high , but sometimes it have be low than in the EU . this deal will ensure a big market that , on average , bring price down . we be confident that the deal secure yesterday will bring more good job and bring down bill for consumer . scottish council now have the power to introduce a tourism levy . that have go down extremely badly with the hospitality sector . in particular , they fear a tax on a tax — that would be vat . will the Government look at zero rating that in the event that a tourism levy be introduce ? I want to welcome tourist to Great Britain and Northern Ireland . that be why we be secure trade deal with country around the world , show that we as a country be open for business . in the end , it be up to the Scottish Government which additional taxis they introduce , but as with income tax , the SNP never take the side of ordinary work people . last week I raise with the Minister for Social Security and Disability the case of a local disability charity be hit by increase bank charge , and the Minister commit to work with I on the issue . will Treasury Ministers do the same so that we can take these bank to task and support fantastic local organisation ? I would be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss that issue . access to banking service be a particular issue in North East Fife , where the limitation of the access to cash legislation be become clear . will the financial inclusion committee agree to look at the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 to ensure that we get the access to banking service that local community need ? our Government secure the commitment of the banking industry to roll out 350 banking hub across the country ; 200 have already be agree and over 150 be open . the financial inclusion committee , which I chair , be look at financial inclusion , include digital banking and ensure that people have the bank account they need . I congratulate the Chancellor of the Exchequer on secure the Mansion House accord , which will channel billion into the economy and make a real difference to my constituent . one of the reason that pension fund agree to join the accord be because of the strong pipeline of investable project that the Government be create . do the Minister agree that the Government ' s infrastructure plan and planning reform , oppose by the Conservatives , will unlock growth ? my hon . friend be absolutely correct . raise investment in the UK be about boost not just the supply of capital , but the demand for it — the investment pipeline . we be approve infrastructure project , from wind farm to reservoir , that the Conservatives block for year . by reform the planning system , we be do something really radical : building home . the roll - out of banking hub be help to a small degree , but what plan do the Government have to increase the number of banking hub beyond those in the pipeline ? as I say in my previous answer , we have secure the commitment of the industry to open 350 banking hub by the end of this Parliament . the FCA keep the access to cash rule under review . as legislate for under the last government , it have the power to make rule to ensure that there be access to cash across the country . I call the Chair of the Treasury Committee . yesterday , there be a lot of coverage of the Chancellor ' s comment about the ISA limit . she pledge to keep it at £ 20 , 000 but do not specify how much within that would be cash and how much would be investment . can the Minister reassure I that she be seriously consider the impact on the mortgage - lend market of change the cash ISA limit ? as we announce in the spring statement , we be look for option for ISA reform to ensure that we get the balance right between cash and equity . I can reassure my hon . friend that we understand that cash saving be a vital tool for people and act as a financial buffer for a rainy day . I be sure that the Chancellor subscribe to the basic principle that if the cost of something be put up , we will see less of it . that be why government have , over many year , put taxis on thing like smoking . do she accept that the principle also apply to employ people — that the more expensive the Government make employ people , with their job tax increase nic for employer , the less we will see of that ? the conservative party be a good example of that . the cost of the conservative party go up , and its number of mp shrink . the recent report by the independent commission on neighbourhood show that 98 % of Blackpool ' s population be live in high - need neighbourhood . with 34 mission - critical neighbourhood in my constituency , Blackpool be desperate for investment and economic growth . will the Chancellor outline what the Government be do to improve growth in our forget coastal town ? yesterday we announce £ 360 million of investment in coastal and fishing community . that will be vital to ensure that those community continue to thrive . Dorset and Wiltshire fire and rescue service have suffer a real - term funding cut , partly because the majority of firefighter be on call so the employer national insurance contribution be not sufficiently compensate . will Ministers commit to review the funding formula to fit the need of community , and to undertake a local impact assessment on the effect of the funding cut on public and firefighter safety ? the Government have already increase nhs spending by £ 22 . 6 billion , police funding by £ 1 . 1 billion , and fire and rescue authority funding by £ 65 . 5 million . further spending will be set out in the June spending review , but this be another example of a Labour Government deliver on the promise of change . to alleviate grind penury for million of people , the Chancellor could introduce an annual wealth tax on multimillionaire , which would raise approximately £ 24 billion per annum , yet she refuse to entertain the idea and consider cut to welfare acceptable . why do " tough political choice " always seem to impact the most vulnerable ? at the Budget last year , we increase the rate of tax on non - dom , we increase capital gain tax , we increase the carry interest on bonus and we introduce vat on private school . this Government be ensure that the wealthy pay their fair share , because that be a basic labour principle . UK - EU Summit with permission , I will update the House on the three recent trade deal that we have strike in the national interest . first , however , I would like to say something about the horrific situation in Gaza , where the level of suffering , with innocent child be bomb again , be utterly intolerable . over the weekend we co - ordinate a response with our ally , as set out in my statement with President Macron and Prime Minister Carney last night . I want to put on record today that we be horrify by the escalation from Israel . we repeat our demand for a ceasefire , as the only way to free the hostage ; we repeat our opposition to settlement in the west bank ; and we repeat our demand to massively scale up humanitarian assistance to Gaza . the recent announcement that Israel will allow a " basic quantity of food " into Gaza be totally and utterly inadequate , so we must co - ordinate our response , because this war have go on for far too long . we can not allow the people of Gaza to starve , and the Foreign Secretary will come to the House shortly to set out our response in detail . let I turn now to the three deal that this Government have strike . the principle we take into the negotiation be clear and simple . do it drive down bill ? do it drive up job ? do it strengthen our border ? in each case , the answer be a resoundingly yes . these deal release we from the tired argument of the past and , as an independent sovereign nation , allow we to seize the opportunity of the future — a clear message , send across the globe , that Britain be back on the world stage . we have a trade deal with the world ' s fast grow economy , India , cut tariff for british industry , which be a huge boost for our whisky and gin distillery — their only concern now be whether they can produce enough to sell — and for our car manufacturer , with tariff slash from over 100 % to just 10 % , and no concession on visa . we have a trade deal with the world ' s rich economy , the United States , slash tariff , save thousand upon thousand of job in car manufacturing in place like Jaguar Land Rover , protect our steel and aluminium export , and safeguard the interest of our hugely important pharmaceutical sector . but I can already see that , when it come to this hat - trick of deal , it be our new partnership with the EU that the opposition most want to talk about — and give their abject failure to strike a deal with India or the US , I can not say I blame they — so let I spell out the benefit of this deal , which give our country an unprecedented level of access to the EU market : the good access of any nation outside the EU or European Free Trade Association . I will start with our security . when russian tank roll into Ukraine over three year ago , a gauntlet be throw down , and it be our responsibility to step up . that be what this world demand , and it be what this partnership deliver , strengthen our national security through a new security and defence partnership that pave the way for british defence firm to access the EU ' s € 150 billion defence fund . that will support british job , british wage and british livelihood . the partnership also increase co - operation on emission trading , save UK business from have to pay up to £ 800 million in EU carbon taxis — once again , back british business . the deal will drive down bill with increase co - operation on energy , because the agreement negotiate by the conservative party leave we with a more expensive way of work with our neighbour — a needless rupture , despite our grid be connect by undersea cable . this partnership bring those system together again , benefit british bill payer and boost clean british power in the North sea . this partnership also strengthen our border , because again , the previous deal leave a huge gap and weaken our ability to work together to tackle illegal migration — the ultimate cross - border challenge . it close that gap , include joint work on return , prevent channel crossing and work upstream in key source and transit country , co - operate along the whole migration route to strengthen our hand in the fight against the vile smuggling gang . it boost our co - operation on law enforcement , combat terrorism and serious organise crime with close operational work with agency like Europol and well sharing of intelligence and datum , include , for the first time , facial imaging . this partnership help british holidaymaker , who will be able to use e - gate when they travel to Europe , end those huge queue at passport control . it deliver for our young people , because we be now on a path towards a control youth experience scheme , with firm cap on number and visa control — a relationship we have with so many country around the world , some of which be even set up by the conservative party . we should be proud to give our young people that opportunity . and , not for the first time , this Government have deliver for Britain ' s steel industry , protect our steel export from new EU tariff and back our steel sector to the hilt . last but certainly not least , we have a new sanitary and phytosanitary deal , as promise in our manifesto , which will cut the price of a weekly shop , mean that there will be more money in the pocket of work people , less red tape for our exporter , no more lorry driver sit for 16 hour at the border with rot food in the back , and no more needless check — the inevitable consequence of the Conservatives ’ policy , which make it so much hard to trade even within our own market , between Great Britain and Northern Ireland . the deal mean that british good that have long be off the menu in Europe can regain their true place , include shellfish , which be hugely important for Cornwall , Devon and Scotland . not only do our deal on fish provide stability , with no increase in the amount that EU vessel can catch in british water , but the new SPS agreement slash cost and red tape for our export to the european market . we sell 70 % of our seafood to that market , so there be a huge opportunity that Britain ' s fishery , in which we have make a £ 360 million investment , will now look to exploit . the reaction to this deal from business have be absolutely clear . Mr Speaker , I know you be a stickler for keep to time , so I do not have time to run through the list of supportive quote from business . [ hon . member : " go on ! " ] order . the Prime Minister be correct . this be not the full list , but the new partnership have be back by the Federation of Small Businesses , the CBI , the British Retail Consortium , Asda , Morrisons , Salmon Scotland , the Food & Drink Federation , the British Chamber of Commerce , Ryanair , Vodafone and producer of meat , milk and poultry — the list go on and on . I wonder whether that long list of business come out in support of the deal will temper the reaction of the Leader of the Opposition — but then again , for week now , she have be dismissive of the benefit of any trade deal , in defiance , frankly , of her party ' s history . it be not just the Conservatives that I be talk about ; the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) , who be not here , and the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) have both show , in their own way , that their party simply do not get it ; if your whole approach to our ally be about strike a pose , you do not get to strike a deal . what that mean in a world like our , where deal be ever more the currency of security and justice , be that you do not get to make a difference , and you do not get to deliver for Britain . that be what this partnership mean . for year , we be tell that this could not be do . what the Conservatives mean be that they could not do it . we be tell that a deal with the US or India be impossible ; what they mean be that it be impossible for they . we be tell that a choice must be make between the US and EU ; what they mean be that they could not do a deal with both . this government can and will , because we stay in the room , we fight for the national interest , and we put the british people first . these deal represent a signal that we be back on the world stage — a global champion of free trade , play our historic role on european security — but above all , they be deal that put money in the pocket of work people , because that be what independent , sovereign nation do . I commend this statement to the House . I call the Leader of the Opposition . when Labour negotiate , Britain lose . the Prime Minister talk about a hat trick of deal — they be own goal . in 2020 , the Conservatives conclude the trade and co - operation agreement , the large and most comprehensive free trade agreement in the world . we agree to come back in five year with improved term . this renegotiation should have be an opportunity to improve term for our country , but the term be improve for the EU . the Prime Minister can dress it up as much as he want , but he have fail . it be bad for bill ; it be bad for job ; and it be bad for border . this be not a deal make for Britain ; this deal be make for Labour ' s public relation , to show Labour on the world stage , but it be a stitch - up for our country in return for short - term headline . let we take the Prime Minister ' s abject failure one by one . first , on fishing , he have give away the prize most desire by EU member state , and he have do so for almost nothing . it be very easy to sign deal if you be prepared to give everything away for penny . this deal lock out our fisherman until 2038 . we be now in a bad position than the Faroe Islands — a set of island with the population of Scarborough , but which get to have annual negotiation . the Prime Minister quote some organisation that welcome his deal — he do not listen to they normally — but he leave one out deliberately : the National Federation of Fishermen ' s Organisations have describe the deal as a surrender and a giveaway . this be a Prime Minister who would pay to give away his family silver . why be the Prime Minister sell our fisherman down the river ? be it because they do not vote labour ? secondly , on food and agriculture , the Prime Minister be go to pay the EU to abide by law that we have no say on . while british farmer struggle with the family farm tax that his Chancellor have impose on they , their regulation will now be make in Paris and enforce in Brussels . it be a total capitulation . we be not in the EU , and we be not at the table , so can the Prime Minister tell we how he will ensure accountability for the hundred of regulation that he have sign this country up to ? thirdly , on energy , the Prime Minister have shackle we to the EU ' s emission trading scheme . that mean that the Government can no long cut energy cost without the EU ' s permission . it will also unravel part of the India free trade agreement that he have just negotiate . this be not a technicality ; it be a betrayal . the House should be in no doubt that this mean high bill , more pain and less flexibility . fourthly , on the Prime Minister ' s manifesto promise , he say that we would not rejoin the single market . he promise no new payment , and that he would protect british interest . that promise have last about as long as his commitment to protect pensioner ' winter fuel allowance . he say whatever be need to win power , and now he will say whatever be need to keep it , even if it mean sell out our sovereignty , our business and the public . the truth be that most of what be announce yesterday be not a deal . there be no bind agreement on anything . Most of the item outline be simply agreement to enter into further discussion , which we be already have . the Prime Minister be boast that we will now avoid airport queue because we will get access to EU e - gate . it sound great , except it be not true ; some airport already allow that , and this deal do not guarantee it anywhere , as each country still have to agree . that sum up this deal perfectly : it be a lot of spin to disguise the terrible substance . have previously rule out a youth mobility scheme , the Prime Minister be now desperately try to hide his late u - turn by rebrande the scheme as an experience . that be risible . we have no detail on any cap or time limit , which beg the question : why be the Government talk about increase migration before they have get a grip on the small boat or the legal migration system ? I know that the Prime Minister do not like answer question , but people out there want to know . can we have some honesty about what have be discuss ? how many young european worker do the Prime Minister think would be acceptable , and will they be able to bring dependant ? even the defence commitment in this deal be hopelessly one - sided . we be make payment , but the EU be offer dialogue and consultation . this be a pitiful return for the country that lead NATO in Europe , and have troop on the ground in Estonia , defend our ally . can the Prime Minister tell we why there be not a single word in his statement about the money that we will now be send to Brussels ? can he set out how much those payment will cost taxpayer ? in government , detail matter , and so do honesty . [ laughter . ] Labour member be laugh , but this be a bad deal for the country . look at they . this be how they laugh at the Budget . they have no idea what it be that they have sign up to . the Prime Minister say that he would stay out of the single market ; he be go into the single market for agrifood , electricity and energy . he say that he would stay out of the custom union , but he be accept EU tariff rule . how do he plan to stop the EU change they to our disadvantage ? he have no idea , and neither do any of they . the british people know when they be be mislead . they know that headline fail . the Prime Minister do not listen to the CBI on the job tax , and he do not listen to the Federation of Small Businesses on the family farm tax . this deal have already unravel . the damage be become clear , and the political consequence will be huge , and here he be , trumpet his success . when he stand up in a moment , he will deflect , dismiss and distract , but we all know the truth . this be a fiction of a speech , a fraud of a deal , and a failure of a Prime Minister . oh dear . that be just such an unserious response . the right hon . Lady say that detail matter in government ; they matter in opposition as well . the SPS agreement cut red tape and bureaucracy for all food and agricultural product go to the EU . it be a massive boost for our supermarket , our farmer and other . why be it that all the supermarket have come out behind this deal ? because they know how important the SPS agreement be . it be completely in our favour . there be a huge amount of detail there . it be the good agreement . on defence and security , we have great operational co - ordination , and the right hon . Lady be against it at a time like this . it open the gate to the EU defence procurement fund of € 150 billion ; that be a condition of the deal . she complain about emission . [ hon . member : " how much ? " ] I will tell you how much . business be go to pay £ 800 million a year in tariff that they will not now pay . that be why they be come out in support of the deal . that be how much . the detail matter . on energy , we be already connect , but we be not use that energy connection . we have electrical access to the market . on steel , we be get rid of the tariff . that will support british steel , but the right hon . Lady be against that , yet again . she say that e - gates access be already in existence ; this deal clear the way for e - gate access . that be the huge difference it make . [ interruption . ] if any conservative Members doubt that , they should travel across a border today and see the long queue . on law enforcement , we have well operational work with Europol , and the right hon . Lady be against it . we have information sharing on facial mapping and deal with criminal record , and she be against it . she be absolutely unserious . she be also against the India deal , which of course do huge thing for trade in sector such as whisky , where their only concern be whether they can produce enough . they have be absolutely clear about support the India deal — a deal that the Conservatives try to do — and she now say that she be against it . we have the US deal , which save thousand upon thousand of job in car manufacturing and at Jaguar Land Rover . I do not know whether the right hon . Lady have the chance to make that trip to JLR , but she really ought to before she respond like that again . the US deal reduce tariff on steel , so that our steel can be sell to America , and support our whisky and gin , and she be against it . she be against every single deal . she be the only ex - Trade Secretary who be against every single deal . these deal have be welcome broadly because they be good deal . you do not get a great long list of endorsement from all the business association and company for no — [ interruption . ] the Conservatives be so unserious ; they be lose in a descent into the abyss . they use to be a proud party of trading agreement , and they have slide off into the abyss . that be where they be . on fishing , none of the right negotiate by the Conservatives have be remove . there be no change in access for coastal community , which be the same as before . there be no reduction in the british quota or increase in the EU quota ; they be the same as before . we have reciprocal arrangement , which be the same as before . what be new be have the SPS agreement for the first time , and it be permanent . they be unable to do that . it reopen the EU market for shellfish and make it much easy to sell british fish to our large trading partner . that be hugely significant , because 72 % of british fish be trade into EU market , and it be now easy to do that . we be back that with £ 360 million through our fishing and coastal grant . the Leader of the Opposition talk about the youth experience scheme . that scheme be cap , it be time - limited , and it be balanced . in relation to standard , the truth be this : we be currently align in our standard , but we do not get the benefit of that . we want to continue to have high standard ; that be what the british public want , and it be what this deal deliver . we will have a role in shape any future rule , and application of they be specifically subject to our constitutional arrangement . we will have a process in this Parliament to apply the rule , but to be clear , we be already apply those rule at the moment — we be just not get the advantage . this deal strip that away . it be good for our country and good for our economy , and it be a shame that the Leader of the opposition can not stand up and support it . I call the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee . this deal be good for business and good for Britain . I congratulate the Prime Minister on embrace a good half of the Select Committee ' s recommendation , which — if I might say so — be agree on a cross - party basis . while some in this House be propose trade barrier , the Prime Minister be build trade bridge , and that be in the national interest . we have a deal , but we do not have a date . the Office for Budget Responsibility can not score the gain , business can not plan for the benefit , and we can not suspend custom check in Northern Ireland until we know when the new SPS check will come into force . what timetable have the Prime Minister give his negotiator for when that SPS deal will come into effect ? business need certainty , and for that , we need clarity . first , let I pick up on my right hon . friend ' s point about the cross - party support of the Select Committee . there be conservative Members who I think be ashamed by the response of the Leader of the Opposition , and know very well that these be good deal that should be support . a number of her Back - Bench mp be already come out and say that these deal be good and in the national interest . [ hon . member : " who ? " ] you know who they be . I assure my right hon . friend that we have move at pace to get the deal , and our instruction to our team now be to move at pace to implement they . that be what we will do . we negotiate these deal in a short number of month , and we will keep move at the same pace . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . I associate myself with the Prime Minister ' s remark about the appalling situation in Gaza . when he be work with our french and canadian colleague to put pressure on Netanyahu , will he consider , with the French , formally recognise the state of Palestine ? turn to the EU reset deal , the Prime Minister know that we do not think this deal go far enough to fix our broken relationship with Europe , but there be many part of it that we welcome . we have long be argue for an agrifood deal to help british farmer export to Europe ; for a youth mobility scheme to give our young people incredible new opportunity and british business , especially in hospitality , a boost ; and for close alliance on defence in the face of Putin ' s imperialism and trump ' s unpredictability . I welcome the progress on those issue , even if there be only very limited progress on thing such as youth mobility . we have all see the terrible damage cause by the Conservatives ' Brexit deal , and hear the conservative leader complain today be like listen to a backseat driver who previously crash the car . our country have move on from the divisive Brexit war of a decade ago , and some member of this House need to do the same . however , do the Prime Minister accept that this deal must be only the first step , and that we must be far more ambitious in strengthen our economic and security tie with our near neighbour ? we believe that a bespoke customs union be a key part of that — not turn back to the past , but form a new partnership that serve our national interest . I know that the Prime Minister once make that a red line , but he will accept that the world have change since then , so will he open negotiation on a custom union to get a well deal for Britain — a trade deal to dwarf all other trade deal ? on the right hon . Gentleman ' s question about this deal be a first step , it be intend that this be the beginning of a process to complete what we have already agree . we also intend to have annual summit so that we can take our co - operation and co - ordination far , step by step , and we will do that while keep to the red line in our manifesto . on the question of a custom union , the problem with the right hon . Gentleman ' s proposal — as I know he know — be that we have just strike deal with India and the US . if we now undo that good work , we undo all the benefit of those two deal . for JLR and other car manufacturer , this be the here and now of their job at the moment . that be why we have our red line and keep to those red line , and I be not prepared to rip up the benefit that we have negotiate in those deal . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Select Committee . I begin by thank the Prime Minister for what he have say about Gaza . the message he be send to Netanyahu ' s far - right government could not be clear , and it should have the unanimous support of this House . it be essentially , " this must stop . " turn to the grow - up EU deal , which come hard on the heel of the two other recent trade agreement , the Government be rightly confident that those deal will be popular and will provide great benefit to our country . as such , I ask the Prime Minister this : why not take this opportunity to fix a glaring hole in our democracy and simply put those agreement to a vote , allow they to be scrutinise by this place ? I can assure he that they will be pass . as my right hon . friend know , there be a process for implement any agreement . all of these agreement will require legislation , and therefore they will go through the House on that basis . can I just point out to the Prime Minister that nothing can undo the fact that 17 . 5 million people vote leave ? they vote to take back control of our law and stop pay money to the EU . that be a considerably large number than the 9 . 7 million people who vote Labour at the last election , but now the Prime Minister be submit to EU regulation without any control and start to pay money back to the European Union — he be give up control over our law and restore payment to the European Union . he will pay a bitter political price for this betrayal . the hon . Gentleman know full well that we have red line about not rejoin the EU — no single market , no custom union and no freedom of movement . we be tell that it be impossible to negotiate a well deal with the EU with those red line , but we have just do it . we have also show that we be outside the EU , because as the hon . Gentleman will appreciate , have deal with India and the US be inconsistent with membership of the EU . there could be no well evidence that we be not go back into the EU ; nor be these negotiation on that basis . I know that the hon . Gentleman understand that well , so I be surprised at the way in which he have put his question . as for control of border , net migration quadruple after Brexit to nearly a million . that be not control our border ; it be a complete lack of control by the conservative party . on the question of payment , it be important to appreciate that we have achieve unprecedented access to EU market without the budgetary payment of member state . that be an incredible achievement . the only payment under the SPS agreement be administrative — to support the relevant cost of implement and administer the scheme . for scheme and payment where it be in our national interest , we will negotiate proportionate contribution , as already happen under the deal negotiate by the Conservatives — for example , in relation to research and development and Horizon . the hon . Gentleman know all that very well . I call the Chair of the Treasury Committee . I congratulate the Prime Minister on this achievement , on top of two great trade deal . this be important if we be try to deliver growth in the economy . could the Prime Minister outline what he think the two or three main gain be to boost the economy in short order , so that we can build the public spending that we so badly need ? our approach have be on the question of bring our bill down , which be why the SPS agreement be so important , and of protect and drive up job , which be why the EU , India and US agreement be all so important . that be particularly the case for car manufacturing , but equally so for pharmaceutical , which be protect under our agreement . however , there be a big picture : these be three individual trade deal , but take together they show that other country want to do deal with the UK now in a way that they do not before . with youth unemployment higher in Europe — in country such as France , Spain , Portugal and Sweden — I can see why the EU push for a youth mobility scheme : to help get its youth unemployment figure down . can the Prime Minister tell the House what impact assessment he have do of his youth scheme ? what effect will it have on youth unemployment among young Brits , particularly white working - class boy , who suffer the most ? can he also tell the House today what cap he have put on the number of people come to the UK ? if he can not , this be a bitter betrayal of british youth . the agreement give young people in the United Kingdom the opportunity to work , to study and to travel in Europe . it will be a cap scheme of limited duration and with visa . this , again , be something that everyone say we could not negotiate , and we have negotiate it . as for the right hon . Lady ' s question about what we be do for young people in this country , she should look to the Trailblazer scheme that we set up to help young people back into work . will the Prime Minister join I in invite Conservative member to celebrate the restoration of access to our british shellfisher , and the reduction in friction on the 70 % of our british seafood that be export to the EU ? will he encourage those Conservative Members to get out there and help we to deploy the £ 360 million of fishing and coastal community funding that we have unlock ? under the Conservatives ' deal , shellfish be lock out , but it can now be sell back into the market , which be hugely important to place such as Cornwall . that be why their response to this be so uncertain and , if I may say so , un - Tory . on six separate occasion since the beginning of the year I have ask the Paymaster General about plan for a youth mobility scheme , and every single time he have tell I that Labour have no plan . I realise that I be in error and should have ask about a youth experience scheme , but let I ask the Prime Minister now whether he have a timescale for when such a scheme can be put into operation and we can start to see the benefit that Liberal Democrats know it can bring to young people here in the UK and across the EU . we have move apace to get this far , but we now need to move apace to implement what we agree yesterday , so we will be do that , and we will update the House as we do so . I congratulate the Prime Minister and his colleague on their success at the summit . the Government ' s hard work have pay off : this be a good deal and a good first step . business will benefit from a reduction in red tape , and consumer will see low bill in the long run . the announcement on youth experience and Erasmus + will be welcome by the many young people in my constituency . I also welcome the recognition of the value of tour artist in both the EU and the UK . I realise that the barrier to tour be complex , but will the PM commit himself to keep up the hard work so we can begin to reduce and break down those barrier ? my hon . friend have raise an important point about tour artist . we be absolutely committed to secure a well deal for they , and that will be part of the ongoing work as we move forward from this summit to the next . I think the front Benches need to calm the jet a wee bit . this be obviously not a surrender , just as it be obviously no substitute for membership of the European Union ; nor , indeed , be it , as the Prime Minister have say repeatedly today , provide " unprecedented access " to the EU market — that be simply absurd . the deal do provide for co - operation on carbon storage , so will the Prime Minister build on that good work by commit his government to provide the financial support that be necessary to take forward the Acorn project in the north - east of Scotland ? the deal do allow we to move forward on renewable and carbon capture as part of the package around renewable , which be why it be so important across the United Kingdom , but particularly in Scotland because of the potential for job opportunity there , so of course we will press on in that regard . I would gently ask the right hon . gentleman to consider again why he should not support this deal for the benefit of the whisky sector in Scotland , and give that yesterday Salmon Scotland come out hugely in favour of it . he should stand up and support the work that we be do . my constituency be home to the world ' s old biscuit factory : Carr ' s have be make table water cracker , ginger nut and custard cream for many decade , and in about 15 year ' time it will celebrate 200 year in business . can the Prime Minister say more about the importance of this deal to food and drink business such as pladi , which own and operate the Carr ' s biscuit factory ? for food , for biscuit and all the content cover by the SPS agreement , this deal be a massive step forward . it get rid of the red tape and bureaucracy that cost each business thousand upon thousand of pound . this be good for biscuit , good for business . may I have a serious answer to a very narrow and specific question ? we know how many fishing right the Prime Minister be prepared to give away for how many year in order to accede to the EU ' s demand , but how much UK taxpayer ' money be he willing to hand over to the EU in order to sign up to its protectionist demand ? I remind the right hon . Lady that nothing that be negotiate on fishing by the previous Government have be give away ; quite the contrary . on cost — I give a full answer early — we be not pay into the EU budget in the way that EU member do , and that be why this unprecedented access be so important . in relation to scheme and programme , yes , we will make a proportionate contribution , on the same basis , with the same principle , that the conservative party — the then Government — negotiate the current arrangement on Horizon and research and development . it be hard to see why , have negotiate those arrangement , it be now suddenly against they . the energy industry be central to our mission for growth , but it be also important to our tackling of the generational challenge that be climate change . this be a sentiment feel in my constituency , which be proud to be a regional hub of carbon capture and hydrogen storage . will the Prime Minister explain how the deal support the energy industry so that we can pursue the growth , bring down energy bill and tackle climate change ? it do so in two way . it make permanent the energy chapter in the current deal , and it go beyond that to allow we to co - operate and co - ordinate more closely on energy ; we have the ability for connection already , but we can now take well advantage of it . successive government and successive Parliaments have cause unnecessary and at time intolerable damage to our Union . we recognise the reduction in some check on some issue , but can the Prime Minister explain why , if animal and animal product be now suitable to come to Northern Ireland free of check , the European Union be still intent on ban the very veterinary medicine that be take by those animal ? if standard be the same in the United Kingdom and the European Union — and this Parliament have already decide that CE marking will be retain — why be product and manufacture good not part of the arrangement ? will the Prime Minister confirm to this Parliament that it be his intention to rid Northern Ireland of the Windsor framework and to get rid of the barrier within our Union ? as the right hon . Gentleman will know , the SPS agreement that we have negotiate for the UK as a whole be good for Northern Ireland because it complement the current SPS agreement for Northern Ireland that it come up against . that will be a huge step forward for Northern Ireland , which I know he care about , and other care about , and I care about . it be among the advantage of the SPS deal that we have strike . I do understand the issue of veterinary medicine , and we be work to resolve the problem that the right hon . Gentleman have rightly describe . I think we be in a well position to resolve it by co - operate and co - ordinating with the EU , which be what we be do . on the Windsor framework , it be important that we implement the agreement that we have in place , because the blunt truth be that no one will make further agreement with a country that walk away from agreement that it have already put in place . the last Tory Government leave the british people at the back of the european queue . that be true for exporter , for farmer and for business , but most obviously it be true for my constituent who stand and watch other nation skip through the e - gate at airport while they wait for hour . give that East Renfrewshire holidaymaker be eager to spend more time at the poolside and less time at passport control , can the Prime Minister tell I when he expect to see the benefit of the arrangement involve the use of e - gate ? the arrangement we get to yesterday with the EU have absolute clarity : there be no impediment to e - gate , which mean that we can now work with member state to get they in place as quickly as possible . we have already start our work with they to get e - gate through . [ interruption . ] we have now clear the barrier and be get on with it . for many year , we have have queue because of the Conservatives ' bad deal — so pipe down . the most pernicious part of this deal be dynamic alignment , by which we become an automatic rule - taker from the European Union . Labour have be brief journalist that we have an opt - out from that . I have read the document in detail , and we do not . besides , the ECJ be the ultimate arbiter in a dispute , so the EU will always win . the british people vote peacefully and democratically to leave the European Union , so why have the Prime Minister surrender that right and make we a rule - taker from the EU once again ? I have forget about some of the nonsense that be spout . on the question of how the rule be make , they will go through a parliamentary process in this House . after they have be change . we be already align . we be in alignment ; we be just not get the benefit of it . this deal give we the benefit , which will be count in business , job and bill . in relation to an independent arbiter , under this agreement there be independent arbitration where there be dispute . subject to the ECJ ! [ interruption . ] they all know this . every trade deal have an arbitration clause to deal with the settlement of dispute . all trade deal have that , include all the trade deal that the Conservatives negotiate . on the question of the ECJ , if an issue of european law need to be refer by the independent arbitrator to the court , it will give a ruling on the interpretation . it will then pass back to the arbitrator to make the final decision . that be how trade deal work , but I understand the Conservatives ' new policy . their new policy be against any trade deal . that have never be the conservative party ' s policy before , but it be good that we have clarity now . this deal be very welcome , particularly for my farmer in Morecambe and Lunesdale . when I be a young person , I benefit from a year in New Zealand and a year in Spain . can the Prime Minister assure I that he will do everything he can to ensure that other young brit get the same opportunity that I do ? I want young people in this country to have the opportunity under the scheme to work , to travel , and to involve themselves in volunteering and other activity in Europe . thank to the appalling deal that the Conservatives do with the EU in 2020 , we see farmer lose 34 % of their export market into the European Union . that contribute to a 41 % drop in income for livestock farmer in my constituency and across the country , so we be encourage to hear about the access to the european market for our farmer . can the Prime Minister say more about that and when farmer in Westmorland and beyond might avail themselves of those opportunity ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that issue , which will be of huge interest to his constituent . if I have get his number right , he say there be a 41 % drop in trade because of the deal that the previous Government do for farmer , who they claim to champion . as he will appreciate , this deal ensure that food and agriculture go into the EU will , under the SPS agreement , do so without any red tape or bureaucracy . that will make it much easy for his constituent , and for farmer generally , to trade in the EU market and will bring down their cost , which be hugely important for farmer and his constituent . on the question of timing , we will do it as quickly as possible . we be move at pace . I appreciate that for farmer in his constituency and across the country , it be hugely important to undo the damage that the previous Government do . I , too , congratulate the Prime Minister on this deal . Manchester have a student population of over 100 , 000 , many of whom I represent . they will be pleased to hear , as I be , that the UK and the EU will develop a scheme focus on student exchange , support young people to study , volunteer , work or travel across Europe . do the Prime Minister agree that this deal will provide life - change experience for our young people and strengthen our broken relationship with the EU for generation to come ? I can confirm that I want those experience and opportunity for our young people , and I think the country want those experience for young people . I be not even sure the Conservatives be genuinely against well opportunity for our young people to work and travel in Europe . in Boston and Skegness , my fisherman be furious that the Prime Minister have surrender the fishing industry . my constituent be furious that he have surrender on freedom of movement and on rule take under the ECJ . but there be good news : do Prime Minister accept that he have also surrender the job of many of his Back - Bench mps to Reform at the next general election ? I will happily explain to the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent the huge benefit of these deal , measure in job that will be save , job that can now thrive , and bill that will come down . it be really important for our economy that we have these deal . that be in the interest of his constituent , and it be in the interest of the whole country . when it come to evaluate the merit of the deal , who would the Prime Minister suggest my Livingston constituent listen to ? should it be the Scottish Chambers of Commerce , NFU Scotland or Salmon Scotland , all of which have welcome the deal , or should they listen to John Swinney , who be line up with the Leader of the Opposition and the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) in a desperate , misguided attempt to create a constitutional grievance over a deal that the Deputy First Minister of Scotland have call " important progress " ? I be surprised to see the SNP First Minister line up with Reform and the Leader of the Opposition against a deal that have be welcome by the like of Salmon Scotland , a huge exporter from Scotland , because they know it be good for their business . that be a pretty small and miserable club for the SNP to be in . if the Prime Minister be right that our food standard be already in alignment with those of the EU , why could we not have negotiate the deal on the basis of mutual recognition of those standard , as other country have do , rather than open ourselves up to have to alter our standard in line with whatever the EU may decide to change in the future ? that be a very good question that the right hon . Gentleman should put to Boris Johnson . I absolutely welcome this deal , which put we on the map as an outward - look nation again . above all , the benefit that it bring young people in Edinburgh South West be absolutely worth note . we know that the deal will bring low bill for people shop for food and buy energy across the UK . base on that , can the Prime Minister understand why the SNP be unite with Reform and the Conservatives to take an isolationist approach on international trade ? I do think it be really hard to fathom , and I hope that SNP Members reconsider their position , because line up against well trade and well business opportunity for Scotland be not in Scotland ' s interest . to be line up with Reform be not a place that I would expect they to be , but that be where they be . I admire the Prime Minister ' s faith that this deal may well end the tired argument of the past , but judge on today ' s display , I think we need to end the Conservatives — the tired party of the past to my right — before that be the case . a generation of young people have miss out on the opportunity offer by the Erasmus scheme due to the disastrous Brexit deal negotiate by the Conservatives . we be encourage by the word in the deal about the Erasmus scheme , but what be the timescale for offer that opportunity to our young people once again ? I do not think the Conservatives need any help in retire from the national stage — they be well on their way . it be obviously important that we take a balanced approach in negotiate access to Erasmus . as with other aspect , we want to move ahead on what we have negotiate as quickly as we can . we have move at speed to get this far , and the instruction from both side be to move at speed on the other element . I agree with the Leader of the opposition when she say that what matter be whether the term of the deal have improve for the country , and that detail matter . some 16 , 000 firm in this country stop export to Europe under the deal that her government negotiate and export drop by a third , because the price of her Brexit be paperwork . under this deal , the Government be get rid of the much - hate export health certificate , which be worth an extra £ 200 on every single consignment . this Government ' s deal will help business ; her Government ' s deal hurt business . can the Prime Minister confirm that as part of review the charge at the border , he will also look at that the Tories ' hate border operating model , so we can really get business move ? my hon . friend put her finger on it . under the Tories ' deal , there be huge bureaucracy , huge red tape , huge cost to business . the reason business have come out to support this deal in huge number be because they know it will make life well for they , improve their business opportunity , and drive our economy forward . I ask the Prime Minister on 7 May to reassure the House that he would not hand over hard - win control over UK fishing water in backroom deal with Brussels . in reply , he say : " a well deal … can be have . " — [ Official Report , 7 May 2025 ; Vol . 766 , c . 679 . ] do he agree that EU access to our water until 2038 be only a well deal for Brussels and nothing short of a betrayal of british coastal community ? the deal we have strike make it easy for fisherman to sell into the EU market . some 72 % of their fish be sell into the EU market . until we come along with the SPS agreement , which be permanent , they have to put up with the red tape , bureaucracy and add cost that the Tory party negotiate with disastrous consequence . this make it easy for they to sell their fish into the market , which be hugely important to they . on shellfish export , which be ban by the Tory party , the door be open again and they can sell into the market — hugely important . I put on the record my thank to the Prime Minister and the Paymaster General and Minister for the Cabinet Office for this landmark first step in the Government ' s reset with the European Union . as the Government remove barrier to trade , what further information can the Prime Minister share with the House about how the deal will bring down the cost of living , include for my Bolton West constituent ? I point my hon . friend to the endorsement from the very many supermarket yesterday who make precisely that point . it will allow they now to lower the price of good and food on their shelf . that be good for they and their business , it be good for work people , and it massively help with the cost of living . these incremental improvement be welcome as we begin to move on from some of the illusion of Brexit , although we have all this and far , far more 10 year ago . the Prime Minister once argue that " we should retain the benefit of the single market " . — [ Official Report , 1 May 2017 ; Vol . 630 , c . 879 . ] give his recent tendency to dismiss the view of other , what would he say to his young self ? I think last week I be overly rude and I apologise . I do respect the right hon . member , and she make a serious point . we be now outside the EU . we have red line in our manifesto on the single market . we have keep to those red line and deliver a very good deal . I congratulate my right hon . and learn Friend on secure this deal . do he agree with I that the attitude display by the Conservatives betray a fundamental dislike and mistrust of all thing european , which make they totally inadequate to accept any sort of deal whatever with the EU ? can he confirm that no matter where an international trade deal be do , whether through World Trade Organisation rule or with Europe , there be always an arbitration system ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . I do not think the Conservatives be just against all thing european , because they say they be against the India deal as well . that be a deal they try for eight long year to negotiate . it be deeply embarrassing for they to say that that be what they be try to negotiate and now they be against it . they be against the deal with the US , which they say they want to negotiate , which save thousand upon thousand of job . go to Jaguar Land Rover and tell those worker that you be go to reverse the deal , and look at the expression on their face . it be further evidence of the decline of the Tory party , away from free trade . I never think I would see that , but we be see that now under this Leader of the Opposition . my hon . friend be absolutely right about arbitration clause : they be there in every trade deal that have ever be strike . I do not want to be a dog in the manger , but the Prime Minister ' s statement appear to be very strong on self - congratulation and very short on detail . I know he do not like answer detailed question , but the response he give to my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) be quite simply unacceptable . when will this deal be sign off in a form that this House will be able to debate properly and vote on ? the detail of the agreement we reach yesterday be set out in a document which we release during the course of yesterday . if the right hon . Gentleman have not have the chance to see that , I will make sure that he do . on the detailed text that follow , obviously that need to be draft in legal form so that everybody can see it , of course , and we can debate and scrutinise it . none of this can go through without legislation , so he will have that opportunity . it be quite right that he press for it . the new UK - EU agreement be a welcome and pragmatic step towards rebuild a strong trading relationship with our close economic partner : " this deal will help reduce cost , cut red tape , and make it easy for scottish business to compete and grow across european market . " those be not my word , but the word of the chief executive of the scottish chamber of commerce . do the Prime Minister agree with I that when labour negotiate , business and customer in my constituency of Paisley and Renfrewshire South benefit ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . there be reason why the scottish chamber of commerce be come out in support of the deal . it recognise the huge benefit . it be very important that we do everything we can for work people and business in Scotland . that be what we be deliver . on behalf of the Green party , I broadly welcome the progress make at the summit yesterday . it be not quite the step change we need , but it be a step forward towards the close possible relationship with our close neighbour that we continue to champion . I would gently point out that it be hardly unprecedented , because , of course , up until we leave the EU we have a much well relationship . give that free movement of people , in addition to good , service and capital , be such an important component of growth and build good relationship , why be the Prime Minister be so timid on the youth mobility scheme , give the huge benefit it would offer to our young people and our country as a whole ? we have a clear red line in our manifesto on freedom of movement . we do that because we have a referendum , and at the heart of that referendum , or one of the key issue , be freedom of movement . everybody make their case and the country vote to leave . we respect that and that be why we put the red line in . what we have now negotiate be a scheme that do not cross our red line , but be good for young people both here and in Europe . I would like to turn to the co - operation aspect of the agreement , on which I congratulate the Prime Minister . when I be an international liaison prosecutor , my colleague and I in the Crown Prosecution Service , Eurojust and Europol be relieve when the trade and co - operation agreement be finally agree . do the Prime Minister agree with I that this new deal enhance and improve our ability to tackle cross - border serious and organised crime , and to keep the people of the UK safe ? I thank my hon . friend for her previous work . one of the important thing I be able to do when I be chief prosecutor be to play a part in Eurojust . before we leave the EU , we could play our full part in Eurojust . that mean we share evidence , strategy , arrest arrangement and issue about where a case would be prosecute . we want to ensure that we improve law enforcement by make sure that , wherever we can , we can co - operate well with Europe . that be not possible under the deal that the conservative party negotiate . I want to make sure that we have well co - operation on criminal justice issue . the previous deal do by the Conservatives tie up many business in red tape , so I warmly welcome the progress on SPS . but advanced manufacturer in my constituency be part of integrate supply chain with the EU and they be still tie up in red tape . in light of the further summit that will be hold , will the Prime Minister outline what the Government will do to reduce that red tape and allow they to grow job in my constituency ? I thank the hon . Gentleman . on SPS , we have take that step — the red tape go — but we do want to reduce trade barrier wherever we can , both with the EU and with anywhere else , frankly . at a time when we be move into a new era on trade and the economy — we certainly be — we need to reduce trade barrier across the country for the reason we set out . I thank the Prime Minister for his work on this deal , which take important step in reset our relationship with the EU . beyond the lowering of trade barrier , the prospect of a youth experience scheme will excite many of my young constituent . do the Prime Minister agree that far from be a concession , a youth experience scheme , mirror agreement that we already have with country like Australia and New Zealand , would create fulfil cultural opportunity for young people across the country ? I agree . I would remind the House that we have agreement in place with a number of other country , some of which be actually negotiate by the Conservatives . I find it hard to believe that anybody in this House genuinely want to make it hard for our young people to work , study and travel in Europe . we need 15 billion barrel of oil and gas between now and 2050 ; we be currently expect to produce just 4 billion . new licence would support ten of thousand of job in this country and ten of billion in tax revenue . will the Prime Minister assure the House that the agreement on alignment on climate policy will not stand in the way of common - sense restoration of new licence in the North sea , so that we can produce the oil and gas we must consume in this country ? we have be clear about honour new licence , and there be nothing in this deal that cut across what we have say previously on that . a trade deal with the world ' s fast - grow economy , which the Tories fail to achieve ; a trade deal with the world ' s rich economy , which they also fail to achieve ; and a trade deal with the world ' s big trading bloc , which the Tories and Reform would tear up , despite the enormous benefit for british business , consumer and tourist — do the Prime Minister agree that all that , plus financial stability , investment in key public service and our national security and infrastructure , make the UK the good place to start and grow a business in the world ? would he far agree that give our fantastic quality of living , our great university and our skilled and passionate people , the north - east should be the destination of choice for such investment ? my hon . friend be right that the three trade deal take together do indicate that other country want to negotiate and deal with the UK because they can see the path that we be on . that be good and it should be welcome , because there be huge benefit . of course , the north - east and my hon . friend ' s constituent should benefit under all three of those deal . the people of Scotland vote overwhelmingly to remain in the European Union in 2016 , and overwhelmingly support rejoin it today — [ interruption . ] perhaps hon . member might want to listen . that fact have be continuously ignore by successive UK government . the limited measure this Government have announce do not come anywhere near to repair the hammer blow that Brexit will continue to inflict on our public finance . indeed , the UK Government ' s own figure show that the cost of Brexit be 20 time great , or 4 % of gdp , compare with this deal . do the Prime Minister recognise that by continue to pursue this disastrous Brexit policy , he be demonstrate that Westminster Governments will never work in the interest of Scotland ? I find it impossible to follow the hon . Gentleman ' s reasoning . he think we should be in the EU — that be vote on , but he be entitle to his position . however , he be also against a close relationship . I do not understand why the SNP be against this deal . this be a close relationship . there be a complete contradiction in the argument that he be make , which be completely out of kilter with scottish business , which be welcome what we achieve yesterday . on behalf of Scotland , the SNP should be welcome it . I congratulate the Prime Minister on secure this sensible , pragmatic deal , which demonstrate that we can respect the result of the 2016 referendum without settle for a bodged Boris Brexit . do the Prime Minister agree that if the Conservatives and Reform want to rip up this deal , they should have to explain to my constituent why they should pay high price for food and energy ? I completely agree — the Conservatives and Reform should go around the country and explain to our constituent why they should pay high price . I think they would get a pretty universal response . our fisherman have be promise , and the EU have agree , that annual access agreement would be revert to from 2026 , but , seemingly at the 11th hour , the Prime Minister abandon our fishing community , our fishing fleet and control of our sea by hand not a three , four or even five - year access agreement , but a 12 - year multi - annual agreement to the EU . he sell out our fisherman to meet his self - impose deadline for announce the agreement and have show that he will not stand strong for UK fisherman . can he confirm that Parliament will have the final say on the fishery deal , and that it will not be ratify elsewhere by unelected official in Whitehall or Brussels ? the simple fact of the matter be that , under the agreement the Conservatives strike , it be much more difficult for fisherman to sell into the european market . we be make it much easy — it be 72 % of their stock . Shellfish can be sell back into that market again , and we have set up a fund for our fishing community . the alternative , which be to come off the current agreement and then negotiate every year with no certainty at all , would not be good for anyone . I congratulate the Prime Minister on this deal , which will benefit so many of my constituent ; it be exactly what business in my constituency ask for when they send I to Parliament . the youth mobility scheme will benefit local farmer , but I want to know how young people in my area will also benefit from it open up experience and opportunity that they would never have otherwise dream of . the scheme must not just benefit middle - class kid on their gap year . I agree wholeheartedly . it have to benefit all our young people , whether through work , travel or study , and we will make sure that it do . we want to provide young people with this important opportunity and help they to take advantage of it . how will Britain ' s head start in gene - edit technology be impact by the rule - take reversionary measure that the Prime Minister have announce ? we be discuss and engage on that issue , which , as the right hon . Gentleman well know , be important . morrison have say that the deal will " ease … pressure on food price " , Asda have say it " have the potential to significantly reduce cost and bureaucracy " , and the British Retail Consortium have say it will help to " keep cost down " . do the Prime Minister agree with their assessment that this deal will help family in Bracknell Forest and across the country face a high cost of living ? the deal will massively help my hon . friend ' s constituent because it will bring cost down . morrison be not the only supermarket that have come out in support of the agreement — pretty well all the supermarket have come out openly support it . there be a reason for that : it will bring the price on their shelf down , and that be good for work people across the country . I welcome the SPS part of yesterday ' s agreement , as I be sure will all the farmer of South Devon and those export fish and shellfish from Brixham . the Prime Minister may not know the answer to my question , but perhaps one of his Ministers will . will bivalve mollusc that be fish in grade b water , which be very important for one of my major exporter , be include in the SPS agreement ? the hon . Lady raise an important issue . I be not go to pretend that I have the answer in my back pocket , but I will make sure that she get a proper , detailed answer to her question , which she can then make use of with her constituent . it be brilliant that the Brexit logjam that have cast a long shadow over this House for so many year have be smash by this Prime Minister . could he indicate when we might hear a bit more about the youth experience scheme that have be so yearned for and so welcome by the university and the english language teaching sector , and also by my staff , team and son , who be bear too late to have a say in any of the mess that the Tories leave behind ? we will develop the plan on the youth experience scheme with our partner . we have instruct our team to move on all front as quickly as we can . the Prime Minister state that a new security and defence partnership will pave the way for british defence firm to access the new european defence fund , which I be sure we can collectively agree will allow our continent to defend ourselves against Putin ' s autocratic regime . how long do the Prime Minister think access to this fund will take — week , month or year ? it will certainly not take year . the whole point of the fund be to be part of the collective response to the challenge in Ukraine . the fund be one of the initiative that come out of the work that we be do with the coalition of the willing . everybody involve want to move at speed , and that be the basis on which we have approach this matter . what yesterday do be knock out one of the gateway issue that we be otherwise face , so that we can work with other to access the fund , but we will work as quickly as we can , because the situation in Ukraine be extremely serious and will need to be address as soon as possible . I thank the Prime Minister for negotiate this deal , which be good for the UK and , accord to umpteen business , good for Scotland . as someone who benefit from a year in France many year ago , I welcome the work that be under way to give young people in my constituency access to a youth experience scheme , but will the Prime Minister work at pace to ensure that our sportspeople and musician can showcase their talent and be no long subject to the Tories ' botch Brexit ? I thank my hon . friend for her important question . we will work as quickly as we can on that issue , because , whichever way people vote , they do not vote to stop creative and sportspeople cross national boundary to showcase their talent — in whatever way that may be — so we do need to resolve it . the impact of the Creative Europe programme between 2014 and 2019 on the UK art , film , publishing and other creative sector be hugely beneficial , and not just for practitioner and organisation but for the country as a whole . will the Government look into the possibility of participate again in this creative programme to far boost the economic potential of our creative industry ? we set out yesterday the area where we have reach agreement . we will now have annual summit , but we will approach that matter on a value - for - money basis . I congratulate the Prime Minister and the Paymaster General on this deal , which make the people of York Outer well off , and , in particular , on the agreement on e - gate , which the conservative party could never achieve . will the Government prioritise e - gate talk with member state in popular holiday destination such as Spain , Portugal and France to ease summer travel chaos for sun - seek Brits ? we already be do so , because it be important that we now get on with this as quickly as we can . Ursula von der Leyen yesterday say that a second step of further negotiation be require before british firm would be eligible to compete for joint procurement align to the Security Action for Europe fund . the Prime Minister speak warmly about the positive industry response , but the chief executive officer of the ADS Group have say that it be " somewhat underwhelming " in its lack of detail . therefore , what be the detail on which further negotiation be require before british firm even have the possibility of bid for access to the SAFE fund , let alone create thousand of job ? let I answer the hon . member directly . the first thing be to get through the first gateway . as this be a fund that be be set up at the moment , the second gateway be to negotiate our way into the scheme . that be always the two - stage process . the scheme itself have not be in existence for very long and be be develop , and so , along with our european partner , we will move that on at pace . although resident and business in York will welcome this deal , our university sector be our second large export . will the Prime Minister say more about how this deal will benefit high education , not least in our research base but also in be able to attract the very good into our country ? we do want to attract the very good into our country and we will continue our effort to do so . the measure that we set out yesterday will now help in that effort . they be not the total sum of our effort , but they will help in that effort . after every EU summit , the people of Northern Ireland have be subject to spin , broken promise and , in some case , downright lie . the Prime Minister today say that the new SPS agreement will mean no more lorry driver queue for 16 hour at the border with rot food in the back and no more needless check that make the border trade so difficult , even within our own market between Great Britain and Northern Ireland . if what he be say be true , can he tell I today that the £ 140 million border post be build in my constituency , spread over 10 acre and design to carry out the very check that he say be now disappear , be no long necessary and that its construction can now stop ? the right hon . member raise an important point . what we want to do with this agreement be ensure that we do remove unnecessary check wherever they be , but we particularly have in focus the situation between Great Britain and Northern Ireland . I want to ensure that we have real improvement in the situation on the ground and do not go to unnecessary expense . I genuinely believe that , for Northern Ireland , this be a big step in the right direction yesterday . we will continue to ensure that we make progress . unlike the SNP ' s singular failure wholeheartedly to support our defence sector , this deal be good for scottish defence firm . do the Prime Minister agree that scottish firm gain access to the € 150 billion european defence fund be a huge opportunity for job and manufacturer in Scotland and in my constituency of Central Ayrshire ? yes , absolutely . get that gateway open be hugely important for scottish defence and security business . those business be world lead , and so it would be a welcome opportunity for they . the Labour Government can not answer how much the Chagos deal cost . the Labour Government can not answer how much NHS England have cost . can the Prime Minister tell we how much this reset deal will cost , and that there will be no further expenditure to the EU ? I have set out how the cost will be approach , but what we be not go to do be make those budgetary payment that other EU member make . we will look at proportionate payment into scheme , as be currently the case in relation to Horizon , which be negotiate by the previous Government . but the cost of the Tories to the country have be absolutely incalculable . may I congratulate the Prime Minister on secure a landmark deal with our european neighbour ? the Prime Minister will know that my constituency have be a lead light in the creative industry for a long time — and not just because my predecessor be a double oscar - win actress . local actor have be come to I express their frustration about secure work in Europe because of delay with work visa , and also because of the limit of 90 day for UK national . can the Prime Minister reassure my local performer that they will not just be wait in the wing while the rest of Europe take centre stage ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this matter , as it be of great importance to her constituent and to many other . our creative sector be incredible . whether people vote leave or remain , I honestly do not think that anybody really want or intend that our creative should have difficulty get on with their trade , and we will work at pace to try to resolve that . british people have access to e - gate be welcome . as the Minister for EU Relations tell the BBC , it should ensure more time for UK resident when abroad . but my constituent have a well suggestion for achieve that . do the Prime Minister agree that we should be develop a reciprocal travel arrangement , so that brit can return to six - month visit to the continent , as EU visitor can here , do away with the confusing 90 - day and 180 - day rule . the e - gate will make a huge difference and will probably be the first impact that many people see . hopefully , we will get those in train just as quickly as we can . we be also look at other measure . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement and this deal . perhaps most important to people in Gateshead will be the downward pressure on food price , so I ask the Prime Minister , when it come to food price and to this deal , would he rather listen to Asda , Morrisons and M & S , or to the Leader of the Opposition , who do not think that sandwich be food ? I listen to business on this , and they be universal in what they say about food . that be why I be surprised that the conservative party be against a deal that bring down the price of food . dynamic alignment undermine sovereignty , and to undermine sovereignty do not just undermine the central principle that 17 . 4 million people vote for ; it also undermine everybody who respect the democratic outcome of that referendum . therefore , if the Prime Minister will not think again about this Brexit betrayal , will he , at the very least , reinstate the European Scrutiny Committee of this House , so that this House can scrutinise every single rule that we now have to take rather than make ? I have set out the position in relation to how the rule will be apply . we be already align , but we do not get the benefit . this deal allow we to get the benefit , which be why business be so in favour of it . every trade deal require agreement on both side as to the way forward , and this agreement be no different . I congratulate the Prime Minister on this common - sense reset . do he agree that the Conservatives slam the door of opportunity in the face of young generation with their useless Brexit deal , and that this youth mobility scheme open up life - change experience for young people from Southampton ? will he also say how school and university can have input into shape the good scheme possible ? the scheme do provide great opportunity , and we will make sure that all those interested be able to help we in the design of it . I want to re - emphasise the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Mid Dorset and North Poole ( Vikki Slade ) . a constituent of mine run an agricultural consultancy . this require travel to the EU , which be especially frequent during seasonal peak , and he have be hamper by the rolling 90 - day rule . the issue be that EU citizen can come to the UK for 180 day in 365 . we be ask for an equalisation of that scheme . be the Prime Minister go to look at that ? we be look at a range of issue . I completely understand the point the hon . Lady make and the frustration that the situation cause for her constituent and for people across the country . I spend this morning with british metal manufacturing business , which be so important in my constituency and across the west midland . like so many other sector , this industry welcome the deal , particularly the emission trading scheme linkage and the steel safeguarding that will boost job , boost trade and cut red tape . do the Prime Minister agree that this deal firmly back UK manufacturing and metal industry , and will he continue to bang the drum for they here and around the world ? I firmly agree with my hon . friend , and what she say apply not just to this deal but to the India and US deal . we have make real progress when it come to our export . give that my constituent overwhelmingly vote to take back control of their border in the 2016 referendum , what safeguard be the Prime Minister put in place to ensure that his youth experience scheme be not open border by the back door , which would be see by my constituent as yet another Brexit betrayal ? the scheme will be time - limited , visa - lead and capped . it be a good scheme for young people in this country to go to Europe , and it will have those feature , which we negotiate because we have a red line about freedom of movement . Calder Valley be home to many of the small and medium - sized enterprise that simply stop trade with Europe because of the disastrous deal agree by the Conservatives . can the Prime Minister assure I that he will not stop here with this deal , but will continue to work to open more of our border to more of our business ? my hon . friend raise a really important point . the Federation of Small Businesses have come out strongly in favour of this deal because it know the impact it will have on small and medium - sized business . I thank the Prime Minister for the statement . the deal be certainly a step in the right direction , and have close tie with Europe have get to be good for business and farming . specifically on medicine supply and shortage , I have hear from a worryingly large number of people in Winchester with chronic health condition who require vital daily medication to manage their condition — anti - seizure medication or attention deficit hyperactivity disorder medication , for example . will the Prime Minister commit to remove medicine supply barrier with Europe and to deliver an agreement with the European Medicines Agency to ensure that we can free up such supply ? the hon . Member will have see how far we get yesterday , but we obviously want to move forward from there . we will look at a range of other issue . I can not make any promise or commitment here — it would be wrong to do so — but where there be frustration , we want to unblock they . common sense drive this . we have deal with India and with the United States , and now this Government be repair our relationship with Europe — something that I and thousand of my constituent welcome . I congratulate the Prime Minister and ask he to go as fast as possible to secure the finalisation of the scheme that will allow our young people to live , work and study in Europe . I endorse my hon . friend ' s comment , and we will go at pace to move on the commitment we make yesterday . some of the free trade deal we already have require we to have autonomy over our regulation . the Prime Minister have say today that we will not be a rule taker because we can discuss the rule in this place , but discussion be not the same as control . can he confirm that he have not cede control to disapply or diverge from regulation in Europe ? the hon . Lady will see from the agreement text that it be subject to our constitutional arrangement , and in the application of the rule , it be the application in this House that matter . can I put on record my thank to everyone who have work so hard to get this hat - trick of deal across the line ? the EU be Wales ' s big trading partner , with over 90 % of Welsh lamb that be export go to the EU . do the Prime Minister agree that this landmark agreement be brilliant news for food and drink producer in Wales , not least mussel producer and farmer in my constituency ? this deal will make a huge difference to my hon . friend ' s constituent , and she be absolutely right to champion their interest . it will hugely help their business , trade and local economy . in an early answer , the Prime Minister say that he would continue with the implementation of the Windsor framework . that will see more bureaucracy and red tape introduce between Great Britain and Northern Ireland before an SPS deal can be deliver . if the Prime Minister ' s partnership with the EU be so positive , do he not agree that it would be well to pause the implementation of any more bureaucracy and red tape that would add cost to Northern Ireland business before his deal can be achieve ? I do not think we should pause the implementation of deal that we have already get , but I do agree with the underlie sentiment that we should be do everything we can through this deal and in further step to ensure that trade between Great Britain and Northern Ireland be the same as across the rest of the United Kingdom . as the proud owner of two English bulldog , I welcome the reintroduction of pet passport . not only will this make it easy for we to travel to Europe with Clive and Bertie , but it will bring down the cost massively . that be not the only part of the deal that will bring bill down for british consumer . can the Prime Minister tell we how my constituent will benefit from this deal ? an hour and a half , and we have only just get to pet passport — but I be really glad my hon . friend mention it . the deal contain an advance for pet passport , along with the many other advance that will progress as soon as possible . I assume that the Conservatives be against pet passport progress as well . will the Prime Minister admit to the british people that this deal take the country back under the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice , which be now able once again to overrule our court , mean we be surrender our judicial sovereignty ? no , that be just wrong under the agreement . there be an independent arbitration — subject to the Court ! it be the same as the Windsor framework , which the right hon . Gentleman ' s party negotiate . this be an important point : it be an independent arbitration process . there be the same process for pretty well every trade deal that be strike , not just by we and other country but by most other country . in this particular case , if the independent arbitration need reference on a point of law , it be refer to the ECJ , which then refer it back to the independent arbitrator to make a decision . that be how it operate . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement , and I warmly welcome this landmark deal with the European Union . I welcome in particular the commitment to work towards a youth experience scheme to once again allow our young people to live , work and travel freely in Europe . do the Prime Minister agree that although this Labour Government be take important step to open up opportunity that will shape our young people ' s future , the Conservatives be dangerously stick in the past ? I do agree . I think they be lose in the past — actually I think they be lose all together now , on a decline into oblivion . as I say , a once great party that use to support trade deal be now against every single trade deal . it be a pretty extraordinary turnaround . paragraph 27 of the common understanding publish yesterday require the " immediate application " of European Union rule relate to food , sanitary and phytosanitary safety . can the Prime Minister set out what measure would be open to the EU should this Parliament choose not to adopt those new European Union law ? we be not make an argument for lower our standard , and we be proud to have high standard at the moment . we want to maintain those high standard , but there will of course be provision , should the occasion arise , for deal with any conflict that may emerge . the Business and Trade Committee visit Brussels early this year , where we see at first hand how the previous Conservative Government damage our relationship with our close trading partner — and british business pay the price . can the Prime Minister confirm that this Labour Government be put our national interest first in get the deal , show that Labour be the party of business ? I can . we have approach this on a serious , pragmatic basis . we have get a deal with 10 strand that massively take our country forward . that be on top of the India deal and the US deal . the Conservatives spend many year fail to get these deal ; that be the truth of it . in the UK - EU summit , co - operation on access to medicine be noticeably scarce . that be an area where we be fall massively behind compare with our european ally . can the Prime Minister ask the Minister for Secondary Care to meet I , so that we can discuss why only 25 % of new cancer medicine approve by the EU be fully available in the UK ? the hon . member raise an important point , and we will continue our discussion with other to try to resolve some of the frustration — to which , common sense would suggest , we can find a well solution , and we will . Sunderland be proud to be a city of maker , from car to music . without reverse Brexit , those maker need access to Europe , whether that be exporter such as Nissan , which need the certainty to export , or musician , who need the freedom to tour . can the Prime Minister outline how this deal will support good job in Sunderland , whether they be in the motor or the music industry ? let I rest on my hon . friend ' s first example , which be of car . the India deal , which massively slash the tariff on car , be good for car manufacturing and good for car export , and the deal with the US save thousand upon thousand of job in the car industry , which be why it should be welcome . many will be concern that the Prime Minister ' s EU deal do not cover the UK ' s participation in future EU research programme . how will the Prime Minister ensure that we can participate in future EU research programme once Horizon finish ? as the hon . member know , we be commit to Horizon . we will retain that commitment to research , because it be so important for our national interest . it never cease to surprise I how little the opposition understand about make trade deal . perhaps that be why they never make a good one . we do not need to explain that to the 19 , 000 small and medium - sized enterprise in my constituency ; they have be choke by the red tape agree by the Conservatives . those business agree with the Federation of Small Businesses that this deal will finally reduce and get rid of the bottleneck . can the Prime Minister tell the business in my constituency and across the country when we can finally be relieve of the Tories ' red tape that be crush our small business ? my hon . friend be absolutely right about the red tape have such an impact on our small business . that be why I be pleased that we have make progress . we now need to make further progress as quickly as we can to ensure that business thrive in the market in which they want to trade . I note the careful wording of the Prime Minister ' s statement — it talk about Britain be " back on the world stage " , and deliver for Britain . that be not the United Kingdom . I note that his SPS deal be for Great Britain . that , of course , be because Northern Ireland have already be capture by the EU and be subject to its law and its custom code . that be why the irish sea border remain . as for the SPS deal as it apply to Northern Ireland , be it correct that custom declaration and custom check will still continue on good from GB to Northern Ireland , even though they might be SPS good ? those check will still operate . yesterday be a step forward in that regard . the deal allow we to reduce frustration and barrier , which nobody want to see . I can assure the hon . and learn Member that I genuinely want we to get into the good position we can on Northern Ireland . it matter to I in the negotiation , and it be one of the principle that we take into they . we will continue with that work , because I know how much it matter . I suspect that even if there be a barrel of salt herre in it for every Opposition Member , this fishing deal would still not be salty enough for they . in fact , it be a sweet deal for prawn fisherman and shellfish fisherman in Na h - Eileanan an Iar , for salmon producer and for crofter , although not for their lamb . be not the real betrayal of fishing community the fact — this be the challenge for Reform — that 80 % of England ' s fishing quota be in the hand of foreign company or the super - rich ? the challenge for the SNP be that 45 % of Scotland ' s quota be in the hand of a few company . the challenge for we be to unwind that privatisation of the ocean and make sure that fishing community across the UK benefit . that be why it be so important that we be put the money — more than £ 300 million — into work with those community to take advantage of the deal that we strike yesterday . we hear from Ministers over the weekend that nothing be agree until everything be agree . the Prime Minister say in his statement that the deal pave the way for access to the € 150 billion defence industrial programme , SAFE — Security Action for Europe . if everything have be agree , why do the security and defence partnership not include access to the SAFE industrial programme now ? that be because the programme itself be be develop at speed . it be only announce the other week . it be announce in response to , and as part of , the work we be do with the coalition of the willing . knock out the first gateway be important . we will now work with the EU to ensure that we can access that fund as quickly as possible . it be not a long - exist fund that have be in place for year ; it be develop at the moment in response to the situation in Ukraine . I think the hon . Member know that . the response to today ' s deal have be strike . we need to drive down the cost of food for our constituent , and retailer be line up to say that the deal will have that impact , yet the Tories and Reform would like to put those cost back on to my constituent . at a time when we should support our farmer and food producer , we be remove barrier and red tape , yet opposition party would like to bring those barrier back . my constituent vote for change because they be feed up with narrow ideological interest hold our country back . do this deal not show why my constituent be so right to do so ? the principle be : bill down and job up , and that be exactly what this deal deliver . the Prime Minister have spend the past hour and a half indicate the benefit that he see from the deal . do he recognise that a potentially toxic side effect of the deal be that some on the left of UK politic will see this as the first step towards row back on what the people vote for nine year ago , while those on the right of UK politic will see a determination to stop they ? rather than the deal bring people together , it could therefore cause toxic division . we have take a pragmatic , common - sense approach , with an absolute focus on reduce bill — that be hugely important to people , particularly in a cost of live crisis — and drive up job in our economy . those be the principle that have drive this . I recognise that those at the extreme , on whichever side people want to say that they be on , will never be satisfied , but the country be feed up with nine year - worth of continue discussion , debate and toxic divide . it be time to move on from that and to look forward , not backward , and this deal will help we do that . the truth be that this deal with the EU be good for my constituent in Fife , good for Scotland , and good for the UK . do the Prime Minister agree that the SNP be tie itself up in knot over this deal ? while the right hon . member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) and the Scottish First Minister be desperate to talk it down , the Deputy First Minister be in Downing Street last night say how wonderful it be , and she be right . I learn this morning that the Deputy First Minister be in the garden at Downing Street last night . she be with business for a business reception . it be buzz , because they be celebrate the deal . it be good to have she there . I would like to see other SNP Members join she , because she have the right judgment on this one . fisherman in my constituency be let down by the Conservatives and their Brexit friend , and they now feel very disappointed by the news about EU vessel access within the six to 12 - mile zone . both before and since Brexit , we have retain regulatory autonomy in that zone . will the Prime Minister ensure that we exercise our right to control the access of vessel in that area , and have control of grandfather right , kilowatt effort and fishing method , as well as other regulatory control , to ensure that the area be properly regulate ? the arrangement be the same as those currently in place , and they be reciprocal , which be really important . what will be of huge benefit to the hon . member ' s constituent will be the reduction in red tape and bureaucracy for they when sell stock to the EU market , which be where a huge percentage — over 70 % — of it go to . that will come without the red tape , which drive up their cost . intervention such as those from the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) have really demonstrate that the conservative party have part company with those of we who have run small export business . perhaps instead of collaborate with those on the Reform Benches , he could talk to small business in my constituency in the defence supply chain , or those who support Nissan by be in its automotive supply chain , and who stand to benefit from this trade deal . do the Prime Minister agree that we be not carp on and talk down our country , as Reform and the Conservatives do ? instead , this Labour Government ' s plan for change be deliver for british job and british business . yes . there be only one party of business now , and it be right here , in government . I support the fishing sector in Portavogie in my constituency , and the Northern Ireland Fish Producers ' Organisation there speak on behalf of those in Ardglass and Kilkeel as well . as the Member for South Down ( Chris Hazzard ) do not bother attend the House , we have to speak for all those fishing village . too often in negotiation between the UK and the EU , our fishing industry have be the sacrificial lamb . do the Prime Minister agree that just as the annexation of Northern Ireland should not have be the price that the previous Government pay for exit the EU , the interest of both Northern Ireland and the wide UK fishing industry should not be expendable ? will he commit to bring forward additional financial and practical support for our local fleet in those three port , and for processor , as they grapple with reduce access in the year ahead ? I assure the hon . member that the £ 360 million fund will be bring forward as quickly as possible . we can discuss with he in due course how that will affect his constituent and those he be represent effectively in the Chamber today . I congratulate the Prime Minister on a realistic , sober , sensible deal that will deliver for business in my constituency , include , through the SPS deal , those like Northumberland Honey , which face real barrier to export . I particularly welcome the first step to a youth mobility experience . the economy of the north - east , with its world - class university , have much to gain . do he agree that it be through foster co - operation , interdependence and trade that we defeat the radical right , not just in the Chamber but at the ballot box ? we need to take common - sense step , in our national interest , on the economy , trade and business , and to give young people the opportunity that they deserve . our opponent talk of " surrender " and believe that they have a monopoly on concept such as patriotism , but in order to trade we need to co - operate . do the Prime Minister agree that co - operate with our near neighbour and with the United States and India be not weak and not surrender ? it be strong ; it be pro - business ; it be pro - worker ; it be in the national interest ; and it be in the interest of my constituent in Rugby , business , farmer , holidaymaker and young people . what be astonishing be that the Conservatives do not want to co - operate with the EU , India or the US . in fact , the Leader of the Opposition ' s approach to diplomacy be to accuse the Indian Government of " fake news " . that be not a good basis for a relationship through which to negotiate a well outcome . we have learn a lot about trade policy in the House today . the conservative party be still desperately defend its fail deal , and as for Reform , we have a no - show from the leader of the party of no deal . labour be the only party that be serious about get a good deal with the European Union . I congratulate the Prime Minister . have campaign for a youth mobility deal , I thank he for the agreement in principle , but ask he to go as fast as possible to ensure that our young people have the opportunity to travel and work in the European Union . I thank my hon . friend . we will move at pace on all front . it be important that young people have those opportunity . I thank you for get everybody in , Madam Deputy Speaker ; it have be a mammoth session . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement . I notice that many business be in support of the deal . my constituency be home to many great business , from manufacture company to pharmaceutical company , and from defence manufacturer to food exporter . will the Prime Minister outline how the deal will benefit my great business in Harlow ? it will massively reduce bureaucracy and red tape , make it easy for business to do business . it will also open up opportunity on defence and security . that be why it have be so welcome by the business community . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I regret that in an early exchange the Prime Minister , who be still in his place , may have inadvertently mislead the House . the point of contention be the arbitration mechanism for an SPS deal and dynamic alignment . the text say : " the SPS Agreement should be subject to a dispute resolution mechanism with an independent arbitration panel that ensure the Court of Justice of the European Union be the ultimate authority for all question of European Union law " , which , of course , this be . the Prime Minister say that the Court go back to the arbitration panel ; it do that to convey its bind decision , so he be guilty of sophistry at good , and potentially something bad . I thank the right hon . gentleman for that . he will know that it be not a point of order , and not a matter for the Chair , but he have put it on the record . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I will not descend into silly language , like the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) , but this be an important point . he and I get on , and I do not think — Don ' t be so patronising ! it be his language , not mine , but this be an important point . we genuinely get on . come on , what be the answer ? we do . there be independent arbitration here , as there be for all of this . that can settle most issue . where an issue of european law arise , which will not always be the case — of course it be european law — order . I think that right hon . member have have the opportunity to get their point on the record . we have have in excess of an hour and a half on the statement from the Prime Minister , and I think we should move on to the next business . Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will make a statement on Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories . this weekend , the Israel Defence Forces start a new , extensive ground operation throughout Gaza : Operation Gideon ' s Chariots . five israeli division now operate there . Prime Minister Netanyahu say that they be go to take control of the strip , let only minimal amount of food reach Gazans ; to quote Mr Netanyahu , " just enough to prevent hunger . " few than 10 truck enter Gaza yesterday . the UN and the World Health Organisation have issue stark warning of the threat of starvation hang over hundred of thousand of civilian . this be abominable . civilian in Gaza face starvation , homelessness and trauma , desperate for this war to end , now confront renew bombardment , displacement and suffering . the remain hostage , keep apart from their love one by Hamas for almost 600 day , be now at heighten risk from the war around they . two month ago the ceasefire collapse . since then , the humanitarian catastrophe have rapidly intensify . for 11 week , israeli force have blockade Gaza , leave the World Food Programme without any remain stock . Israel have repeatedly strike hospital , and three more in northern Gaza cease operation this weekend . yet more aid worker and medical worker have be kill , after last year prove the deadly year on record for humanitarian personnel . the diplomatic deadlock between Israel and Hamas have also harden . despite the effort of the United States , Qatar and Egypt , which we of course support , no ceasefire have emerge . we repeat our demand that Hamas release all the hostage immediately and unconditionally , and reiterate that they can not continue to run Gaza . we be now enter a dark new phase in this conflict . Netanyahu ' s Government plan to drive gazan from their home into a corner of the strip to the south and permit they a fraction of the aid that they need . yesterday , Minister Smotrich even speak of israeli force " cleanse " Gaza , of " destroy what ' s leave " and of resident Palestinians be " relocate to third country " . we must call this what it be : it be extremism , it be dangerous , it be repellent , it be monstrous and I condemn it in the strong possible term . Israel suffer a heinous attack on 7 October . the Government have always back Israel ' s right to defend itself . we have condemn Hamas and their abhorrent treatment of the hostage . we have stand with the family and demand that their loved one be release . Israel ' s plan be morally unjustifiable , wholly disproportionate and utterly counterproductive , and whatever israeli Ministers claim , it be not the way to bring the hostage safely home . nearly all the hostage have be free through negotiation , not military force . that be why hostage family themselves , and many other Israelis , oppose this plan so strongly . it will not eliminate Hamas or make Israel secure either . this war have leave a generation orphan and traumatised , ready for Hamas to recruit . as we learn in Northern Ireland , to defeat terrorist and their warped ideology , we can not just rely on military might ; we have to offer a viable political alternative . oppose the expansion of a war that have kill thousand of child be not reward Hamas . since enter office , we have take concerted action on Gaza . we have restore funding to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency , support the independence of international court , suspend arm export licence , provide food and medical care to hundred of thousand of Gazans and work with arab partner on a plan to ensure a reconstructed Gaza no long run by Hamas . since Israel restart strike on Gaza , this Government have demand that Israel change course . privately , in my conversation with Foreign Minister Sa ' ar and Strategic Affairs Minister Dermer , and publicly , in repeat joint statement with my french and german counterpart , we have make clear that Israel ' s action be intolerable . we have raise our concern in the UN Security Council and before the International Court of Justice . yesterday , my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister join leader from France and Canada in strongly oppose the expansion of Israel ' s military operation . the UK also lead a further statement with 27 partner criticise Israel ' s propose new aid delivery mechanism and defend the essential humanitarian principle of the international system that the UK do so much to establish in the first place . our message be clear . there be a UN plan ready to deliver aid at the scale need , with mitigation against aid diversion . there be brave humanitarian ready to do their job . there be over 9 , 000 truck at the border . Prime Minister Netanyahu : end this blockade now and let the aid in . regrettably , despite our effort , this israeli Government ' s egregious action and rhetoric have continue . they be isolate Israel from its friend and partner around the world , undermine the interest of the israeli people and damage the image of the state of Israel in the eye of the world . I find this deeply painful , as a lifelong friend of Israel and a believer in the value express in its declaration of independence . as the Prime Minister and fellow leader say yesterday , we can not stand by in the face of this new deterioration . it be incompatible with the principle that underpin our bilateral relationship , it be reject by member across this House , and frankly , it be an affront to the value of the british people . therefore , today I be announce that we have suspend negotiation with this israeli Government on a new free trade agreement and we will be review co - operation with they under the 2030 bilateral road map . the Netanyahu Government ' s action have make this necessary . today , the Minister for the middle east , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) be summon the israeli ambassador to the Foreign Office to convey this message . I say now to the people of Israel that we want — I want — a strong friendship with you base on share value , with flourish tie between our people and society . we be unwavere in our commitment to your security and to your future , to counter the very real threat from Iran , the scourge of terrorism and the evil of antisemitism . however , the conduct of the war in Gaza be damage our relationship with their government and , as the Prime Minister have say , if Israel pursue this military offensive as it have threaten , fail to ensure the unhindered provision of aid , we will take further action in response . the UK , will not give up on a two - state solution : Israelis live within secure border , recognise and at peace with their neighbour , free from the threat of terrorism ; and Palestinians live in their own state , in dignity and security , free of occupation . the two - state solution remain the ideal framework ; indeed , it be the only framework for a just and last peace . yet as the House know , its very viability be in peril , endanger not only by the war in Gaza but by the spread of illegal israeli settlement and outpost across the occupy west bank with the explicit support of this israeli Government . there be now weekly meeting to approve new settlement construction . settlement approval have accelerate while settler violence have soar . here , too , we have act : repeatedly press for a change in course and direction , sanction seven entity in October and sign a landmark agreement to bolster support for the Palestinian Authority when Prime Minister Mustafa visit London last month . but here too , we must do more . today , we be therefore impose sanction on a further three individual and four entity involve in the settler movement . I have see for myself the consequence of settler violence , the fear of its victim and the impunity of its perpetrator . today , we be demonstrate again that we will continue to act against those carry out heinous abuse of human right . despite the glimmer of hope from January ' s ceasefire , the suffering in this conflict have worsen . January show that another path be possible , and we urge the Netanyahu Government to choose this path . the world be judge . history will judge they . block aid , expand the war and dismiss the concern of their friend and partner be indefensible and it must stop . I commend this statement to the House . I be grateful to the Foreign Secretary for give I advance sight of his statement . the humanitarian situation in Gaza be appalling and we continue to see the intolerable suffering of life be lose . a sustainable end to this terrible conflict be urgently and desperately need , and that mean the release of the remain 58 hostage from the cruel Hamas captivity that we have all witness for too long ; it mean a significant increase in aid get into Gaza ; and it mean a new future for Gaza , free from the terror and misery cause by Hamas , who bear responsibility for the suffering we have see unfold since 7 October 2023 . I will take each of those three issue in turn . first , on the hostage , will the Foreign Secretary explain what recent engagement he have have to try to secure their release and return to their love one ? be Britain contribute to an overall strategy to free the hostage ? be we in the room for these critical discussion ? we know the hard work that go into all this at the beginning of the year . secondly , on aid , I have be ask the Government for week for clarity over the way they be use their influence to get aid into Gaza . on 6 and 14 May , we question the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , the hon . member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , on the step be take to unblock aid delivery . we have ask the Government for detail of their engagement with Israel , about their response to Israel ' s plan for an alternative aid delivery model , and about what practical solution the UK have work on with Israel to address concern about aid diversion , but no substantive answer be give . what have the Government be do in recent week to facilitate the delivery of aid and find practical solution with other country to get aid in ? have the Government just be criticise Israel , or have they be offer to work constructively to find solution on aid delivery and secure a ceasefire ? we see from the joint statement issue yesterday that the Government and other international partner may not be support or participate in the aid delivery model propose by Israel , so can the Foreign Secretary explain why that conclusion have be reach ? shameful ! if I can return to my remark , how do that non - participation help to get aid into Gaza and stop the suffering that be be experience by everyone ? [ interruption . ] member shake their head , but we should all be focus on securing — [ interruption . ] Labour member should be ashamed of themselves , because the focus of this House should be on get aid into Gaza . the UK — [ interruption . ] I can speak as someone who have support aid get into Gaza and other humanitarian crisis . the hon . member for Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy ( Melanie Ward ) might want to intervene rather than call I out and say that my comment be shameful . the UK have consistently be a world leader when it come to aid delivery . we should be at the forefront of find practical solution and support the delivery of aid to those in need , so have the Foreign Secretary , in the approach that he have just outline towards Israel , do all he can to secure an increase in aid ? have the UK ' s influence fall in this aid discussion and in the dialogue with Israel ? thirdly , on the future of Gaza , the Government have agree with our position that there can be no future for Hamas — that be completely non - negotiable — so what practical step be be take to end their role in Gaza and dismantle the terrorist infrastructure ? what co - ordinated international step be be take to stem the flow of money , weapon and support bankroll by Iran ? we be still await an Iran strategy from the Government . can the Foreign Secretary expand upon this ? we have a statement last month from the Foreign Secretary on the memorandum of understanding with the Palestinian Authority . can he give an update on what step be be take to improve the governance of the PA ? the MOU pose many question , but I do not need to go over they again as I have raise they previously . the UK obviously need to be involve in this process , give our historical role in , for example , the Abraham accord . this may be our good shot when it come to regional peace , and the Foreign Secretary must convince we that we have influence when it come to the ceasefire and negotiate a well future in this part of the world . what discussion have take place with Administration of the United States — one country that do have influence — on peace effort and get aid into Gaza ? in conclusion , strong word will do little to resolve the real challenge and the suffering that we be see day in , day out — [ interruption . ] that be a matter for the Government to address . it should be a cause for concern that we have reach a situation where the statement and action that have be echo by the Government today — I be refer to the Prime Minister ' s joint statement with France and Canada — have now be support by Hamas , a terrorist organisation that I proscribe as Home Secretary — [ interruption . ] they have actually put out a statement , and I be sure the Foreign Secretary have see it . the Foreign Secretary ' s decision to tear up trade negotiation with Israel and stop the bilateral road map will not — [ interruption . ] it be not shocking . these be important question . if the Foreign Secretary find this — [ interruption . ] if he can not answer these question , that be fine — [ interruption . ] then please do answer the question , because they be important — [ interruption . ] I would if member do not keep interrupt I . it be quite obvious that the Government do not want to respond to these important question , but this be important because there be so much human suffering . I understand the Foreign Secretary ' s point about the step he be take with Israel , but how be this go to help now when it come to wide security issue and threat from Iran ? how do we know that this will not be self - defeat in any way ? for decade there have be a cross - party commitment to a two - state solution and the pursuit of peace from friend of both Israel and the palestinian people across this House . it be the Thatcher Government that impose an arm embargo after Israel ' s invasion of Lebanon in 1982 . it be David Cameron who first call Gaza a prison camp , and it be Theresa May ' s Government that champion UN resolution 2334 on settlement . it be William Hague who work with John Kerry on the push for peace and condemn the idea of move the british embassy to Jerusalem . sadly , today , it seem that the Conservative party , or at least its current Front Bench , be refuse to confront the appalling reality of what be happen in Gaza and what the Netanyahu Government be do . the right hon . Lady seem incapable of offer any serious criticism about the egregious action of the Netanyahu Government , unlike many hon . member on her own side . the whole House should be able to utterly condemn the israeli Government ' s denial of food to hungry child . it be wrong . it be appalling . will she condemn it ? well , the whole House have see her response . oppose the expansion of a war that have kill thousand of child be not reward Hamas . oppose the displacement of hundred of thousand of civilian be not reward Hamas . on this side of the House , we be crystal clear that what be happen be morally wrong and unjustifiable , and it need to stop . that be why we have take the action we have . the right hon . Lady know hostage family be deeply concerned about what be happen and about their love one — she know that . she know we oppose the blockade on aid — do she ? it be not clear from her statement whether she do oppose the blockade of aid to child . she should note that our diplomat lead that call , with 27 country join we , to condemn what be happen and stand on the side of truth and history . what a shame she could not bring herself to do so today . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s statement . just last week , the UN humanitarian chief Tom Fletcher warn that the Security Council must act " decisively " to prevent genocide . today , he say that 14 , 000 baby could be dead in the next 48 hour . the level of destruction we have see of the palestinian people and their land be remarkable . Israel have show that it will not respond to diplomatic appeal . we now need the continuation of a full arm embargo , sanction , accountability for war crime , immediate recognition of the state of Palestine , and the return of UNRWA . what additional step will the Foreign Secretary take to stave off this genocide ? I draw my hon . friend ' s attention to the announcement I have make today on further sanction , build on the announcement I make back in October . it be very important that we send a clear message to Israel that it should allow the full resumption of aid into Gaza immediately and should enable the UN and humanitarian organisation to work independently and impartially to save life , reduce suffering and maintain dignity . she will have note the co - ordinate statement of 27 country , include Canada , Denmark , Finland , France and many other , who come together to make their view crystal clear about what we now see happen , what we expect to see happen , and the further action that will have to take place if we do not . I call the Lib Dem spokesperson . I also thank the Foreign Secretary for advance sight of his statement . I know that he , like I , have be horrify by the scene come out of Gaza . Tom Fletcher , the UN ' s humanitarian chief , have indeed highlight and predict the imminent death of thousand of infant without immediate aid , and say that the amount of aid enter the strip be but " a drop in the ocean " . let we be clear that mass starvation will do nothing to remove Hamas or secure the release of the hostage , so I welcome yesterday ' s joint statement with Canada and France . in it , the Prime Minister speak of take further action if Israel do not fully lift its aid blockade and draw back from its expansion of military activity . will the Foreign Secretary confirm whether the expand sanction list include extremist Ministers Ben - Gvir and Smotrich , who have advocate illegal action to dispossess Palestinians across the occupy territory , and if not , why not ? will the Government go beyond review the 2030 bilateral road map and urgently suspend it unless the Government of Israel change path ? will they now finally block the export of all UK arm to Israel ? in response to my letter to the Foreign Secretary last week , the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , the hon . member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , reaffirm the Government ' s position that they consider that Israel only " risk " breach international law through its blockade . I ask the Secretary of State what more Israel would have to do to the people of Gaza for its action to constitute not simply a " risk " , but an actual breach of international law . the Minister also state in his reply that the Government would only proceed with recognition of the state of Palestine at " a time that be most conducive to the peace process " . do the Foreign Secretary agree with I and the Liberal Democrats that the time to recognise Palestine be now and that immediate recognition — ideally jointly with France at next month ' s summit — would send the strong possible signal about the UK ' s commitment to the palestinian people ' s right to self - determination ? I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman . I have condemn the statement of Ben - Gvir and Smotrich in the past . on 6 May , Israel ' s Finance Minister Smotrich say : " Gaza will be entirely destroy , civilian will be send to … the south to a humanitarian zone without Hamas or terrorism , and from there they will start to leave in great number to third country " . we condemn that language . we condemn the language of Minister Ben - Gvir and , of course , we keep that language under review and continue to discuss these issue with our international partner . the hon . Gentleman ask about recognition and the work that we see France and Saudi Arabia do . of course , we be in close dialogue with our p5 partner of France and with Saudi Arabia , in fact . I touch on these issue with the saudi arabian pm in Rome at the weekend . the hon . Gentleman ask about the road map . as I have say , we will review the road map . he will recognise that there be element of that road map , particularly as they pertain to security issue and the work we do jointly on Iran , that would not be right to suspend , but we be review it — as we should , give the circumstance . I have say time and again that we have suspend arm sale that could be use in Gaza , notwithstanding those we must necessarily retain that particularly pertain to the supply chain on F - 35s and their use in warfare in other theatre with which we have an interest . I thank the Secretary of State for his strong statement . it feel like it have take a long time for we to get to this point . when something be intolerable , we stop it from happen some way or another . will this actually stop what be happen in Gaza , or be it too late ? the fact that Netanyahu have say he will let a small amount of aid in mean that he understand he have be withhold aid . that be a breach of international law , and we must call it out for what it be . we must insist that the hostage , and also the prisoner hold without charge , be return . my hon . friend rightly pray in aid of international humanitarian law . she know that because we in this country be one of the great architect of that international humanitarian law , we have to stand by it , and when we see it breach , we have to call it out . I begin that process less than three month into office back in September when I suspend arm sale to Israel . I be terribly sad that we have have to act in this way to suspend any discussion of a new trade deal with Israel and to review our road map with Israel . it be deeply worry that three leader have to come together to put out that statement to make it crystal clear that the action take place must now come to an end , or there will be further act to bring this war to an end . we will do all we can . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s statement , which be the strong statement I have hear in this House on the issue in recent time . I welcome the action and sanction that have be announce today , and I hope the Government will continue to keep those under review and take further measure if necessary . be it not now increasingly clear that the israeli Prime Minister have mislead the US President over allow aid back into Gaza ? ten truck be a perverse and pathetic token . do the Foreign Secretary agree that the israeli Prime Minister be in real danger of take the support of both the american people and the US President for grant ? I note report today of deep frustration in the US Administration in relation to what they be see . certainly , President Trump have say that this war be just go on too long , and I think he say that again last week on his own visit to the middle east . I note the right hon . Gentleman ' s tweet and that he have be raise these issue . be he as concerned as I be about the position of his Front Bench ? I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement . I agree that January provide a small window and glimmer of hope — hope for the innocent civilian who have continue to be bomb for many month ; hope for the innocent hostage , who just want to be reunite with their family ; hope that be wither away by the Netanyahu Government , who break that ceasefire . the Foreign Secretary be right that the world be watch ; it be also watch we in the UK Parliament . the UK be legally bind to prevent act of genocide . do he agree that there must be clear and tangible consequence for Israel if it continue to have blatant disregard for international law and to use food and aid as weapon of punishment ? it be because of those very same issue , and my concern that the denial of essential humanitarian assistance to a civilian population be unacceptable and risk breach international humanitarian law , that I suspend arm back in September . I want we to get back to a ceasefire ; I want we to get back to diplomacy . there can not be a role for Hamas , but there can never be a role for use food as a tool of war . the anger and the outrage of the Foreign Secretary be appreciate by we all , and I sense that it be genuine , but he know as well as I do that the Israelis could not give a damn about what he say in this Chamber or indeed about the statement . as he will know , since that statement be issue , dozen of Palestinians have be kill and there have be voice of defiance from the israeli Government . the statement mention the taking of concrete action . I be not quite sure what the trigger for that be . many of we in this Chamber have be try to spur the Government into action over the past few month . we have try anger and outrage and get nowhere , and we have try shame Ministers into action and get nowhere , so maybe we need to beg . do those on the Treasury Bench need we to beg for the life of those palestinian child before they will trigger that concrete action , whatever it might be ? I be urge the Foreign Secretary — I be beg he — to pluck up all his moral authority and courage , stand up in Government against the blockage in Downing Street , and please try to save those child ' s live as soon as possible . I listen carefully to what the right hon . Gentleman say , and I take issue with the way he begin his question . I think it be wrong to characterise the whole of Israel in the way he do . it be not that the Israelis could not give a fig about what be say from this Front Bench — that be not the case . our issue today , and the reason I have take the decision I have about a new free trade agreement , a review of the road map and the announcement of further sanction , be the position of the Netanyahu Government and the language from those Ministers . that be why I be so shocked that the Opposition Front Benchers could not stand up and find their own moral authority . I be proud of what we have do since come into government , right from the beginning . I want to see an end to this war , as the right hon . Gentleman know . our diplomat be do all they can to try to use our lever to bring this war to an end . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s very strong statement and thank he for his work on this matter . he confirm the word of Minister Smotrich — that Israel ' s goal be to destroy everything that be leave in the Gaza strip . Smotrich have also say that Israel will carry out the " conquering " and " cleanse " of the Gaza strip . Prime Minister Netanyahu have praise those word , say that Smotrich be speak the truth . that be effectively an explicit admission that israeli official intend to carry out ethnic cleansing . what be we do to satisfy our obligation under the Geneva convention to prevent a genocide from take place , and why be we not sanction Minister Smotrich ? our obligation be meet , under our legislation to ensure that none of we be complicit in any act that breach international humanitarian law , when I suspend arm back in September . my hon . friend will remember that , in opposition , many of we be surprised and shock that the previous Government fail to do that . our obligation be meet , but they be not satisfied because the war still go on . that be why , work with international partner , I have announce further measure today . it be why we continue to discuss these issue with the israeli Government . and it be why the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , have summon the israeli ambassador , to make our position crystal clear . rise — order . member will see that about 70 colleague wish to contribute . this be an important statement and there be equally important business to follow . member may all help each other by ask short question . I call Stephen Flynn . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker — no pressure . to see the Foreign Secretary finally find some fire in his belly on this issue be certainly most appreciated , but it be long overdue . ultimately , as have be mention , the Government be still a block to action . would he support this House be give vote on whether we support the work of the ICJ and the ICC , on whether we recognise the state of Palestine , and on end all arm sale to Israel ? let I say to the right hon . Gentleman that I have have fire in my belly since the day I be bear in the Whittington hospital in north London — he can be sure of that . this House lead the call for the international criminal architecture that we have , and we will continue , as successive government have , to support that international architecture . the child of Gaza be be not just starve to death but bomb to death as Israel try to wipe Palestine itself off the map , so I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s statement , particularly his robust action on the illegal settlement in the west bank and on suspend any free trade agreement talk with Israel . do he agree that history will judge all government around the world , and every member of this House , not just on what we say but on what we do in the face of this 21st century atrocity ? I recognise why my hon . friend put his remark in the way he do . what we must do be act in concert . this be deeply frustrating , of course , but he know history and will recognise that the ability of the UK to act unilaterally or with one other partner be determine in the Suez crisis , when it be crystal clear that we no long have unilateral influence in the middle east . that be why it be so important that 27 partner come together , and that I continue to discuss these issue with Secretary of State Rubio , and with Vice - President Vance , with whom I discuss they on Sunday . I doubt whether there be a single member of this House who do not wish to see the 58 remain hostage return to their family , whether dead or alive . I think that the Foreign Secretary be right to say that genocide and war crime — my word , not his — be not the way to get the hostage release . there be parent and grandparent in this House who will stand up for child anywhere in the world — I be prepared to nail my colour to that mast . we have to take action ; we can not stand by and do nothing . a number of Privy Counsellors — all of we , I think — write to the Prime Minister relatively recently , call for the two - state solution to be impose immediately . sadly , that private letter do not receive a response , which be why it be publish . Foreign Secretary , please take that message back to the Prime Minister and act . I thank the right hon . gentleman for what he say in a cross - party spirit . he bring great authority and experience to these matter . he know that , as a p5 nation , we be talk to our french counterpart about the way forward as we head to their conference next month . we be also talk to Saudi Arabia , which be jointly host that conference . I recognise why he raise these issue , particularly in relation to child , in the manner in which he do . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement and for these essential action : the sanction on extremist settler and the suspension of our trade negotiation with Israel . it be important that Israel see that its ally will not stand by while it continue to forcibly displace Palestinians and block aid . can the Foreign Secretary tell we what further discussion he have have with the EU on suspend the EU - Israel association agreement , so that we can put further pressure on Israel to stop the brutalisation of Palestinians in Gaza ? I can confirm that I be invite to the EU Foreign Ministers ' informal meeting just under two week ago , at which these issue be discuss , and I be able to discuss these issue with EU High Representative Kaja Kallas just yesterday . in correspondence to the Business and Trade Committee early this year , the Government say that some of the reasoning for not stop licence for F - 35 - relate component be the need to maintain arm for Ukraine . what practical step have be take in the three month since that letter be send to ensure that weapon manufacture and supply to Ukraine be separate from the supply chain to Israel and the occupy territory ? I stand by the decision we have take to meet our obligation for security around the world and the decision we have make in relation to the F - 35s . I want to make it clear that our decision to suspend arm sale that could be use in Gaza be a serious one , and we be absolutely content that we be meet all obligation that I set out back in September . yesterday , Israel admit that it allow only five aid truck into Gaza for over 2 million people — that be more than Northern Ireland ' s entire population . this weaponisation of food be morally reprehensible . we must impose an arm embargo and sanction on the israeli official who be responsible for these heinous crime : Benjamin Netanyahu , Smotrich and Ben - Gvir . I welcome the joint Government statement with Canada and France . give that time be run out with every moment we stand here talk about this issue , can the Secretary of State clarify the condition and timeframe for the very firmest of action ? we have make these decision today . my hon . friend will recognise that there be an important conference convene by France and Saudi Arabia , where we will work jointly with those partner . I ask she to look carefully at the leader ’ statement and our absolute commitment to take further action if necessary in the come day and week in term of the course of action that the Netanyahu Government be set to take , of military expansion and the blockade of aid . this government have consistently maintain that the determination of genocide , ethnic cleansing and war crime be a matter for a competent court , yet the lawyer instruct by this Government to defend against a case bring by Al - Haq recently have be unequivocal that it be this Government ' s firm position that no genocide be occur , that we have no legal obligation to the International Court of Justice ruling and that it be a matter for Parliament , not the court . I ask the Foreign Secretary to clarify : be those lawyer speak on behalf of this Government , and if that truly be the Government ' s position , will he finally explain why he see military support for Israel as compatible with our obligation under international law , rather than say it be simply a matter for the court ? that be a crude caricature of a very serious issue . I take a decision back in September in relation to international humanitarian law in suspend arm sale that could be use in Gaza because these be very serious issue — I understand the issue that be before the ICC and the ICJ , and they be very serious . it be because vote in this Parliament help to set up those mechanism and make we part of they that I leave it to they to make the necessary determination that they must properly make . we have see the slaughter of innocent go on for far too long , and as other have say , people be die right now . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s statement and the Prime Minister ' s statement yesterday with France and Canada . the Foreign Secretary mention that he have meet Vice - President Vance . to get a breakthrough , because Israel be not listen , America need to be part of this . can he tell we about that conversation with Vice - President Vance and whether he have any hope that we can make a statement jointly with the US as well ? I know that my hon . friend ' s constituent will be deeply concerned about what be happen . we have hope , and I know Vice - President Vance have hope , that we would get a breakthrough in the ceasefire that be be broker by the United States , Qatar and Egypt . she will have see that the United States have be able to strike direct deal — it get its hostage out last week by go direct to Hamas — and that the breakthrough we have hope for towards the end of last week have not come through . I do not foresee a ceasefire deal at this stage . that be why the only way forward be through more diplomacy , not less . it be not through military mean . we have to be crystal clear that we disagree with the course that the Netanyahu Government be now take . the House want to know , and Israel need to know , exactly what the Foreign Secretary mean by " further action " . I would ask the right hon . Gentleman to consult the Oxford English Dictionary and look at the two word . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement and the action he have take . I also welcome the Prime Minister ' s joint statement yesterday . the word " genocide " be use quite often here , and all indicator point towards that happen . I appreciate the suspension of negotiation on a free trade agreement , but child be still die every single day , and people be lose their home . what will it take ? what do we have to wait for to call it what it be and act to stop what be happen ? my hon . friend talk with such integrity , and I know that she have be a consistent ambassador for the palestinian people in this House . she feel the same as most of our constituent , who want this to stop now . the action we have take bilaterally be a diplomatic move by the United Kingdom Government to exert influence to try to make it stop , but she know history — she know that we can not do that unilaterally . I wish I could stand at this Dispatch Box and say that we could . if I be stand here in 1950 , that might have be possible , but here we be in 2025 . we must work in concert with other partner . that be why the statement from the Foreign Ministers of 27 country be so important . it be why we have take the action we have today , and it be why we have indicate that we will act far if we need to , particularly as we head to this important conference in New York convene by France and Saudi Arabia , work alongside they . the UN have warn that 14 , 000 baby could die in the next 48 hour . concrete action against Netanyahu ' s murderous Government be long overdue . we know that this Government be not prepared to make a determination on genocide , but they have tell we that they be make ongoing assessment of the risk . will they now finally release that risk assessment for this House and the public to see , to prove that this Government take their obligation under international law seriously and mean what they say about concrete action ? I remind the hon . Lady that last year we give £ 129 million in humanitarian support to the people of Gaza and the occupy territory . a lot of that support be for medical aid , which this Government begin to provide with vigour as soon as we come back to Parliament in September . behind her question be a serious point . it fall to I to make serious decision about the sale of arm where there might be or where there be a clear risk of a breach in humanitarian law . I take that quasi - judicial decision very soberly and seriously in September last year , and that have continue to be the position since . I welcome today ' s step forward , particularly on trade . the fact that we be on the brink of the ethnic cleansing of the Palestinians be such a collective global failure that it betray word . unlike the shadow Foreign Secretary , will the Foreign Secretary confirm the UK ' s total opposition to israeli plan to replace humanitarian non - governmental organisation and the UN with mercenary ? on the important statement by the UK , France and Canada , threaten far important multilateral action if Israel do not stop , what be the red line ? we have be here before with the Rafah offensive , when the international community say it would stop Israel but it do not . Gaza be out of time . let I be crystal clear : this Government oppose Israel ' s model for aid , which do not respect humanitarian principle and can not deliver aid effectively at speed or at the scale require . it be wrong and it be dangerous for the humanitarian system . early , the Foreign Secretary use the phrase " morally wrong " . I entirely agree with that , and I be sure we can all agree that the original Hamas massacre be equally morally unacceptable . may I take he back to the issue of recognition ? I be one of the Members who have previously support the recognition of the state of Palestine . if there be a free vote in the House , I think there would be overwhelming support for that , which would give the Government moral authority to take even more robust further action , so may I suggest that they take that course of action ? UK bilateral recognition be the single most important action that the United Kingdom can take with regard to palestinian statehood , which be why it be important for we to get the timing right and to work with partner as we consider the issue very closely . I have talk about the international conference in June on the implementation of the two - state solution , which we will of course be attend ; we be talk with our partner about it and they will have hear what the hon . Gentleman have say . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s statement , and last night ' s collective statement . however , repeat strong word without action now re hollow . Netanyahu ' s Government continue with the starvation and killing of innocent Palestinians . suspend trade negotiation and other step that the Foreign Secretary have announce today will not stop the killing of innocent Palestinians , because we be deal with an extremist right - wing Netanyahu Government . concrete step to uphold our humanitarian commitment be overdue , so when will the Foreign Secretary impose a full arm embargo on Israel and recognise Palestine ? we have impose a ban on arm sale for use in Gaza — we do that in September . I know that my hon . friend ' s constituent will care a lot about the war in Ukraine and other conflict across the world , and therefore he will recognise the decision that we have make , particularly about the F - 35 supply chain . the whole House will have hear his point on recognition . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement . I also pay tribute to the humanitarian worker in Gaza , who be risk their life to help the palestinian people . the very powerful word by our own UN humanitarian chief have already be reference . he say that 14 , 000 baby need food within the next 48 hour or they will face starvation . he also say that we have not move fast enough in the past in the face of other war crime . starvation be a weapon of war and it be against humanitarian law . the Secretary of State have say that he will not stand by and that , unless aid get in , the Government will take consequential action — so how quickly will the Government take action to save the life of those palestinian baby ? four hundred and thirty aid worker have be kill — Gaza be the deadly place on earth for humanitarian . the hon . Lady be right to recognise those tremendous aid worker . let I also reference the medical worker and the child who have lose their life . it be absolutely appalling . we will continue to do all we can to bring this to an end . I be sure that we be all absolutely horrified that the israeli Government be create a mass starvation event in Gaza . we be see the language of a Gaza plan that talk about the " concentration " of the palestinian people in the south of Gaza , and even work against its own citizen . nine israeli citizen have be arrest — include civil society leader Alon - Lee Green , who I host in Parliament only last week — and have not yet be release . do the Foreign Secretary agree that this be a deliberate and systematic attempt to destroy the palestinian people in Gaza ? be it not time that , instead of sanction those taking order , we sanction those give the order in the israeli Government ? my hon . friend have consistently raise these issue . the abandonment and displacement of Gazans to that small strip be entirely unacceptable . the idea that we could see this go on right through 2026 be abominable . Tom Fletcher be right to speak out in recent day , and that be why we be see this response from international partner . I hope that Netanyahu heed the word of friend . it be essential that aid reach innocent civilian in Gaza , as the shadow Foreign Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , be equally clear in state . it be also vital that this war come to a swift end . however , in search for that path to peace , be it not equally vital that we reflect on certain reality ? it be not Israel that have shut down the ceasefire so far or be reject term in attempt to broker a new one — it be Hamas . it be not Israel hold 58 hostage — it be Hamas . it be not Israel that be misappropriate aid and sell it on at profit — it be Hamas . be it not a damn indictment of this Government ' s foreign policy that it be Hamas who be cheerlead this new stance ? I do not think that on any of the six occasion when I have make a statement on this subject at this Dispatch Box , I have not condemn Hamas , what they do on 7 October and those who be keep hostage . let I be clear : I believe that Hamas be hold hostage the palestinian people , but just as we can hold to that , we can hold in our heart and mind that it be morally reprehensible to continue this blockade , and to reduce 400 humanitarian aid point to four . that be impossible and intolerable , and the United Kingdom must speak up against it . this statement be welcome , but I believe that the Foreign Secretary have hear the strength of the feeling on the government Benches that more need to be do . I believe that he be more in tune with the family of the hostage who be at the border yesterday , protest against what the israeli Government be do ; we should show solidarity with they for stand up to Prime Minister Netanyahu . if solidarity matter , let the Foreign Secretary hear Labour Members call for a vote on recognise Palestine ; he have hear Members of other party call for that vote . we hold a vote on that in this place in 2014 , but it be fair to say that a minority of the people who support the motion be in the House today . the conference be before he ; would not a vote on the issue in the House show that we speak as one in call for an end to what be happen in Gaza , and in call for recognition of the Palestinians ' right to exist ? the british people make a determination when they vote Labour at the last general election . my hon . friend know that in our manifesto , we commit to palestinian recognition in the right circumstance . I have say a lot about the conference that be come up on a two - state solution , and she will no doubt read a lot about it . give that we be only day away from it , that be what should concentrate mind at this time . rise — order . colleague can see by just look around the Chamber that not everybody be go to get in . this statement have already go on for an hour . I will try to go fast , but I need your help , with short question and short answer . can the Foreign Secretary tell we exactly what arm have be supply to Israel over the past six month ? what arm be be supply now to Israel ? what be RAF Akrotiri be use for ? be it support the israeli war machine ? can he inform the House categorically that no component part of an F - 35 jet make in Britain be be supply to Israel , for it to continue its bombardment of Gaza ? the right hon . Gentleman ask I a similar question a few week ago , and I give he the answer that we suspend arm sale ; that be a sober decision we make . they be not be give to Israel for use in Gaza at this time — that be a strict decision under our export licensing regime — save for the carve - out we make for F - 35s . I know he disagree with that , but that be the position , because we be not prepared to disrupt supply chain across the world . what we have hear from senior UN official this morning should frankly send shiver down the spine of every Member in this Chamber . some 14 , 000 palestinian child could die in the next 48 hour because of Israel ' s action . today we be get strong word , but limited action , and the time for it be long , long past . we need far bold and immediate action . we need to end all arm sale to Israel , impose economic sanction and ban israeli settlement good . what be the Government wait for ? I set out the position as it stand today , and I ask my hon . friend to look carefully at the Prime Minister ' s statement just this morning , and at what he have indicate . further action could be take if we do not see this further expansion , and the restriction of aid , come to an end . I welcome today ' s statement . I reiterate the call of my hon . friend the Member for Bicester and Woodstock ( Calum Miller ) for the recognition of Palestine and the immediate cessation of all arm sale to Israel . as important as those be , give that the UN have say that 14 , 000 child and baby may die in the next 48 hour , I reiterate what many member have ask today : what concrete action can be take against an illegal blockade that be prevent medicine and food from get to these people ? do it include make air drop of aid with our ally ? the hon . Gentleman ask what the concrete action be . it be really straightforward : it be that Netanyahu stop — that he halt his course of action . we be take concrete action with our ally to try to bring this to an end , but the hon . Gentleman know that in the end , this be in the hand of the israeli Government . hold up our hand and express disgust be not sufficient — I recognise that — but the israeli Government will be hold to account if they do not act . I very much welcome the tone and content of the Foreign Secretary ' s statement , although I sincerely wish it have come a long time ago . I have to tell he , though , that british arm be still get through to Israel in vast quantity to wreak havoc . the question be whether what he say will stop the genocide . for month , the Government have claim that they can not make an assessment of whether there be a serious risk of genocide as they be wait for a determination by the court . the Government tell the High Court last week that they have already conduct an assessment under the genocide convention , so which be it ? have a determination be make , and if so , do the Foreign Secretary want to correct the record ? arm be not get to Israel that could be use in Gaza . my hon . friend will recognise that the United Kingdom be a very small supplier of arm to Israel in percentage term . I can not account for other country , and other country have not make the decision that we have make . I stand by the assessment I have make that lead to I suspend arm . the House have debate this issue regularly for many month — in fact , for well over a year . however , we must remind ourselves why we be do this . it be because brutal terrorist burn , rape , murder , and torture innocent citizen and take hostage , and then continue a conflict against Israel . in his expression of anger today , the Foreign Secretary could have be much more balanced . instead of talk about attack hospital , why be he not condemn the terrorist who use hospital as basis , know the consequence ? instead of talk about the lack of aid , why be he not recognise the aid that be give , and the fact that that aid must not be allow to be abuse by terrorist in Israel , and — [ interruption . ] order . our constituent be watch . on every occasion on which I have stand at this Dispatch Box and speak on this matter , I have raise the reprehensible behaviour that take place on 7 October , and the reprehensible behaviour of Hamas . I have do that today , and I will do it again . the atrocity happen in Gaza and on the west bank — and even bad atrocity be threaten — amount to the bad attack on Palestinians since the Nakba 77 year ago . will the Foreign Secretary give the Netanyahu regime reason to pause by impose sanction on its Ministers and ban trade with illegal settlement , and will he give hope to the palestinian people by recognise the state of Palestine now ? I will not comment on any future sanction , except to say that as my hon . friend know , we keep these issue under review . he will have see the Prime Minister ' s statement on these matter a few moment ago , and indeed his statement alongside the canadian and french leader . I know that my hon . friend have long campaign on the second issue that he raise ; his view be very well know . the Foreign Secretary talk of child orphan . the prediction be that 14 , 000 baby will die . if that come true , it would wipe out an entire generation . we have also see family burn alive in tent , in event that have shock the world . enough be enough . I join the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) in beg the Foreign Secretary — on my knee , if I need to — to take more action . I accept that more settler have be sanction , but it must be time for the israeli Government to face sanction . please can the Foreign Secretary confirm that that option be actively be explore ? I have say what I have say from the Dispatch Box , and we have take further action today . let we see tomorrow what that yield . between October and December 2024 , the Government approve export licence worth more than £ 127 million for Israel , exceed the total approve under the Tories between 2020 and 2023 . the equipment fund by those licence , grant after the Government ' s so - call temporary suspension , include component for lethal F - 35 fighter jet — jet that Israel be now fly at five time the usual rate , decimate Gaza . child be starve , family have be wipe out and hospital have be destroy , yet the Government claim in court that there be " no evidence " that Israel target civilian . the Foreign Secretary be personally responsible , and refuse to ban all arm sale to this genocidal state . like many people throughout Britain , I have to ask the Foreign Secretary : how do you sleep at night ? my hon . friend have raise figure that I do not recognise , and she have raise , once again , the issue of arm sale to Israel . I ban the sale of arm that could be use in Gaza . I know that my hon . friend be keen on clickbait , but I be not go to be bait at this Dispatch Box . may I repeat the question ask by the hon . member for Bristol Central ( Carla Denyer ) , which go unanswered ? last week , 65 member of nine political party in both Houses write to the Prime Minister , ask he to publish the most recent genocide assessment — the one that persuade he to send his lawyer to the High Court to argue that " no genocide have occur or be occur " . will the Government now publish that assessment , so we can all understand how on earth they arrive at the conclusion that the horror we have witness , day in , day out , for month in Gaza do not constitute a genocide ? I answer that question early . I make a sober assessment , base on whether there be a clear risk from our export licensing , and I stand by the statement that I have make . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s statement , but 14 , 000 baby will die within 48 hour , and since the statement begin , hundred will have die from starvation and famine . the unstated objective of Netanyahu be to displace Palestinians to Jordan and Egypt . one of the concrete action that the Foreign Secretary can take be to immediately recognise Palestine . will he do that to stop the genocide that be happen there ? I think I have now answer that question many time , but the whole House will have hear what my hon . friend have say . I , too , cautiously welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s passion and his statement , although they come a little late for 51 , 000 Palestinians . he have talk of the suspension of negotiation on new trade deal ; would not a suspension of exist trade deal be more effective ? if the Foreign Secretary do indeed believe that the behaviour of the israeli Government be abominable , may I ask why a Minister partie with the Israelis just last week , while 370 Gazans be massacre and the world be mourn for they ? do that not undermine trust in the UK ' s role in this conflict ? as I say early to the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) , it be important that we make a distinction between the israeli people and the current direction of the israeli Government , and I insist that we be precise in our language on that point . the situation in Gaza be utterly intolerable , and the Foreign Secretary have convince the House of his passion , anger and indignation , but he will know that angry rhetoric mean nothing if it be not accompany by forceful action . I be not one of those people who say that no action have be take by the Government , because they have take action , but it have not have the desire effect . will the Foreign Secretary now say that he will recognise the state of Palestine , will stop any intelligence - sharing with Israel , and will stop the supply of component that might be use in its war machine ? again , I have say much on this matter , particularly on the point about recognition . I be glad that my hon . friend have recognise what the Government have do , because this be the Government who increase humanitarian aid to the Gazans , and who absolutely make clear our position on international humanitarian law — we do not see that under the last government . we suspend the sale of arm for use in Gaza . we issue further sanction on settler . we have issue more sanction today . we have now suspend a free trade agreement . we have act collectively with our partner . we lead the charge to get those two diplomatic statement this weekend . we be do all that we can , and it be now for the israeli Government to act . the Foreign Secretary rightly talk about a two - state solution be the only framework through which we can find a just and last peace , and this have long be the case . he also talk about bilateral and multilateral talk at the upcoming conference . if that conference do not achieve the hope - for success , will the Government consider unilaterally recognise the state of Palestine ? our position be set out in the labour manifesto : we believe in recognition . we have always believe that recognition should be part of the process , and that be what we be discuss with our french , saudi arabian and other partner . starvation be a horrific and entirely preventable way to die . some 14 , 000 baby ' life be at risk in the next 48 hour . to put that in perspective , 15 , 000 baby be bear each and every year in South Yorkshire — nearly all of they would be wipe out in two day if that be the situation here . will the Secretary of State outline what step he will take to make sure that that do not happen ? what more can be do to ensure that there be access to urgently need aid to prevent it ? my hon . friend be right to bring to mind , as other hon . member have do , the child , the baby and the word of Tom Fletcher . I reassure she that when the Prime Minister sit in his office with Prime Minister Mustafa of the Palestinian Authority , he raise the child of the occupy territory . we keep that in mind in our action , and it have guide we today . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement , and for reiterate the Government ' s commitment to take further concrete action in concert with international ally should the israeli Government fail to cease their military offensive and , indeed , lift restriction on humanitarian aid . give the immediacy of the crisis and warning that up to 14 , 000 child be at risk of starvation , could the Foreign Secretary please reassure the House that those further concrete step will be take at such a time as to prevent the mass starvation of innocent child ? as I say before , and as the Prime Minister ' s statement indicate , we will take further concrete action if necessary . it be my sincere hope that we will not need to take that action because Prime Minister Netanyahu will heed what those within his country and the international community be say . the record of Netanyahu be that he have not heed the statement make here or elsewhere , and I think the general view of the House be that there be a need for urgent action with regard to the desperate situation . can we come back to the proposal that have be raise before by a number of we ? if the Israelis be not willing to provide aid , other must do so . I agree with the Foreign Secretary that we can not take unilateral action , but this Government be good at call for coalition of the willing , so can we now put on the table a call for a coalition of the willing to set a deadline for the israeli Government to deliver aid , and fail that we will start take action by deliver aid by air , sea or whatever other method we can use ? the 27 partner that we orchestrate — include Australia , Belgium , Canada , Denmark , Estonia , Finland , France , Germany , Iceland , Ireland , Italy , Japan , Latvia , Lithuania , Luxembourg , the Netherlands , New Zealand , Norway , Portugal , Slovenia , Spain , Sweden and the EU — be a coalition of the willing . our diplomat do that in the past few day . yes , we will carry out airdrop if necessary , work particularly with our jordanian partner , but the right hon . Gentleman know that airdrop be not the way to feed the people of Gaza at this point — it be by end the blockade . I , too , welcome the statement from the Foreign Secretary and the change in tone . however , I be disappointed to note that the action announce relate to new trade deal . last week be the 77th anniversary of the Nakba — Arabic for catastrophe — which commemorate the murder of over 15 , 000 Palestinians and the illegal forced displacement of more than 750 , 000 Palestinians from their home during the establishment of the state of Israel . the Nakba be not a one - time historical event . it accelerate a process of dispossession , erasure , violence and ethnic cleansing against the palestinian people which begin under british colonial rule . the current genocide in Gaza be just the late in that process . will the Foreign Secretary now take this opportunity , on the 77th anniversary of the Nakba and amid the ongoing starvation of 2 million people today , to end all exist military , economic and diplomatic support for Israel as a matter of legal obligation , to ensure that the UK be no long complicit in Israel ' s great violation of international law ? as I say before and will say again , the palestinian cause be a just cause and that be why we be oppose to the further displacement of the palestinian people , and to those in the israeli Government who talk about cleanse and drive people out from their land . I repeat that we stand by a two - state solution . I thank my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary and the ministerial team , who have do so much work to get the statement out and other deliverable . give that 14 , 000 baby be about to lose their life in the next 48 hour and hundred of Palestinians have be slaughter overnight , what be the red line and what be the timeframe for action ? if baby have only 48 hour , it need to be of that order . my hon . friend will have hear what I say from the Dispatch Box , she will have see the effort of the diplomatic community to come together , and she will know that the United Kingdom be not able to act unilaterally and affect decision in Israel , but we must take the step we can take with other and we be do that . she be absolutely right to call to mind those child , particularly those who may lose their life in the hour ahead . although it be long overdue , I warmly welcome the sentiment behind the Government ' s announcement . the hon . member for Leicester South ( Shockat Adam ) and I visit Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories last month . what we see there be absolutely shocking . other have describe it as apartheid ; I think it be actually bad than that . the Foreign Secretary say that the question of the recognition of the palestinian state be one which be stick in a process , but can he not at least today accept that he can recognise the right of Palestinians to statehood and democracy ? what we be discuss with France , as a permanent member of the UN Security Council , be how we can affect thing on the ground . the hon . Gentleman will recognise that other have recognise a palestinian state , but we would not be have this debate if that have affect thing on the ground . that be the seriousness of what we be discuss with France . I have to say , as the country ' s chief diplomat , that I stand by the seriousness of make a decision that might bring about change on the ground . the United Nations have state that 14 , 000 baby could starve to death if aid do not get in . my right hon . friend describe that as intolerable , but it sometimes feel like we still tolerate it . what will the escalation of diplomatic measure against the israeli Government look like , so we can stop this atrocity from happen ? my hon . friend the Minister for the middle east have leave the Chamber because he have summon the israeli ambassador . he will be discuss the issue I have discuss and the mood of the House , and urge she to watch this debate , because we need to see action on the ground . fourteen thousand baby be the number : 14 , 000 baby will die in Gaza within the next 48 hour if aid be not let in . Minister , I ask you , do your Government honestly believe that what be happen in Gaza be not a genocide ? what be your Government do to stop genocide in Gaza ? it seem that you be comfortable in supply weapon to a state that be equally comfortable in starve child . I finish by ask : what action be you go to take ? perhaps you could expel the israeli ambassador . order . " what action be you go to take " ? the hon . Member have be in the House long enough to know that that be not appropriate language . I should not have to repeat myself . we take action when we suspend the sale to Israel of arm that could be use in Gaza , which we do back in September . I urge the hon . gentleman to look at the remark I make then and to recognise that decision make by I and this Government . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s statement today , the suspension of trade talk with Israel and further sanction on israeli settler . however , in the horror of Gaza , it be clear that the israeli Government be not listen to the exhortation of the international community and that they be very unlikely to listen to this further action today , so I want to press the Foreign Secretary . the UN have place a timescale on the lifespan of baby in Gaza — it be not too much to ask that the Government set out a timescale for the meaningful further action that they will take in the event , as seem likely , that the israeli Government do not change course . my hon . friend have be a champion of the palestinian people and have raise the issue of this conflict for many month . I refer she to the statement of Yair Golan , the israeli Opposition leader and former IDF member , who have urge the Netanyahu Government to listen , as he fear that Israel be lose friend and will become " a pariah state " . food be the mean of life , and it must not be use as a weapon of war . the Foreign Secretary have rightly condemn its use as morally wrong , but it be also a breach of international humanitarian law . he have condemn as unjustifiable and disproportionate Minister Smotrich ' s proposal to cleanse Gaza and displace and destroy all within it . if Mr Smotrich ' s plan be carry out in the come day , do my right hon . friend agree that he will have to use a different word : genocide ? will he now sanction Minister Smotrich ? I have hear what my hon . friend have say . he will know that the Prime Minister have say that there might well have to be further action , but we urge the israeli Government to step back from what they be do . of course , we continue to condemn the extremist language use by the israeli Government , such as " ethnic cleansing " . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s condemnation of the illegal action and vile word use by the israeli Government . it be hearten and humane to hold Israel accountable for its slaughter of innocent Palestinians , the withholding of aid , settler expansion and its shameless plan to " conquer , cleanse and stay " in Gaza . we need action to show that we will not tolerate this indiscriminate violence , which be effectively ethnic cleansing . do my right hon . friend agree that our next step should be to recognise the state of Palestine ? will he outline what action he will take to stop the impending death by starvation ? my hon . friend ' s question mirror what be feel across this House : concern for the child , the issue of recognition and , of course , the action — not , I suspect , just by the United Kingdom — that be necessary from the international community . as other have say , 14 , 000 baby be at immediate risk of starvation — this could not be a more serious moment . I welcome the suspension of trade negotiation and the expansion of sanction . however , with other sanction designation — on human right and corruption ; on Russia , Georgia , Belarus and other — we have take they to the political level . will the Foreign Secretary consider extend the sanction regime to the political decision maker advocate for ethnic cleansing and the takeover of Gaza ? my hon . friend be one of the House ' s expert on how our sanction regime work , and I can reassure he that all that he have outline be under consideration ? the senseless and deliberate suffering in Gaza must end , and humanitarian aid be crucial to achieve that aim and to help thousand of child . if the israeli Government continue to politicise humanitarian aid and withhold it with their blockade , what sanction will this Government consider and then impose ? I be grateful to my hon . friend . she use the word " politicise " , but I be afraid that this be not just politicisation , but weaponisation of aid and the use of food and medical supply . that be entirely unacceptable and abominable , which be why I have say very clearly that the UK Government stand against it . the impact on child be particularly devastating — 15 , 000 child have be kill and 93 % be now at critical risk of famine . save the Children report that palestinian child in israeli - run prison be face thing bad that abuse , include physical violence and sexual assault . some have be force to strip , hold in extreme temperature and deny contact with their family . those be not the action of a democratic state . I urge the Foreign Secretary to act on behalf of those child , and may I ask he what step he be take to press for their immediate release ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that issue . when consider those assessment under international humanitarian law , I pay particularly regard to the way that detainee be treat . there be a clear risk that international humanitarian law have be breach in this area , so she be right to call to mind those child who may be detain , and the human dignity that all child , wherever they be in the world , deserve . I recognise that I have not be able to answer all the question in the hour and a half that I have be on my foot , but I hope that our friend in Israel have see the strength of feeling across the House today . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I think that today we have have the heavy assent from the Foreign Secretary that , ahead of the palestinian state discussion lead by Saudi Arabia and France at the UN in June , the british Government be on their way to recognise a palestinian state , which I would welcome . but ahead of that , may I seek your guidance on how member across this House who feel very strongly about this issue will have an opportunity to vote ahead of that meeting in order that the Government have full authority from this Parliament on the issue of recognise a palestinian state ? I think the right hon . Member know that that point of order be a matter not for the Chair , but for the Government . no doubt the Foreign Secretary and those on the Front Bench will have hear he and will respond in due course . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I wonder whether you can remind the House what the process be for we to obtain an emergency debate under Standing Order No . 24 , on the basis that this situation be so dire and so acute that a number of we may wish to apply for such a debate . I and the right hon . member both come into Parliament together . he know how to obtain a Standing Order No . 24 debate , so he do not need I to remind he of the process . he will get much advice from the Speaker ' s Office . without doubt , the strength of feeling have be hear repeatedly , in the statement and in those two point of order , by the Foreign Secretary and Ministers on the Front Bench . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . you will be aware that I and other colleague have be raise the issue of UK resident in Northern Ireland , many of whom have live here for decade as taxpayer and voter , but who be bear a few mile across the border in the Irish Republic . they have not be able to avail themselves of a UK passport in the same way as other who live in Northern Ireland can obtain an irish passport . this be bring to a head by my right hon . friend the Member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) exactly one year ago this week , when his Bill receive Royal Assent and become law . despite my repeat parliamentary question to the Home Secretary , I have be unable even to get a date by which the first UK passport will be issue to people in Northern Ireland . have the Home Secretary or a Home Office Minister indicate to the Speaker ' s Office their intention to make a statement to the House , to finally announce when this injustice will end ? I be grateful to the hon . member for give notice of this point of order . I have have no indication from Ministers that they intend to come to the House to make a statement on this matter , but I note that it be Home Office question on Monday and he still have time to table an oral question to the Home Secretary . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Joint Committee on National Security Strategy , which I chair , be responsible for examine cross - cut issue of national security . you will appreciate that the UK face a great range of external threat and internal challenge around resilience and the choice it make about its relationship with ally and partner . the JCNSS be follow the Government ' s effort to address these matter very closely , and the work of the National Security Adviser be central to that success . since the role ' s creation in 2010 , every NSA have appear before the Committee for a public accountability session — until now . of course , some more sensitive conversation need to be hold behind closed door , but the public session be an essential way in which the Prime Minister ' s primary adviser on issue of national security be hold to account by Parliament . despite their commitment to transparency in numerous exchange , the Government remain steadfast that the NSA will not be accountable to Parliament . I be concerned that the Government be use a quirk of his appointment — as a special adviser rather than the permanent official — to erode democratic norm , which future , less benevolent government could exploit . Madam Deputy Speaker , can you advise I on how my Committee can get the Government to prove that they be commit to increase transparency , to recognise the dangerous precedent that they be set and to allow the NSA to appear before we ? I be grateful to the hon . member for give notice of his point of order . the attendance of witness before Select Committees be not a matter for the Chair . however , it be surprising that the current National Security Adviser have decline to appear before the Joint Committee when all of his predecessor have be willing to do so . the Government ' s own guidance on the matter state : " Parliament have power to call any individual to give evidence … when a Select Committee indicate that it wish to take evidence from any particular name official , include special adviser , the presumption be that Ministers will seek to agree such a request . " I be sure that the Clerks will be able to advise the hon . Member and his Committee on how good to pursue the matter far . Bill present Child Abduction and Custody Act 1985 ( Amendment ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Lisa Smart , support by Ben Maguire and Josh Babarinde , present a Bill to amend the Child Abduction and Custody Act 1985 to make provision about the interpretation of that Act in relation to domestic abuse . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 11 July , and to be print ( Bill 246 ) . reasonable adjustment ( Duty on Employers to Respond ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision about a deadline by which employer must respond to request for reasonable adjustment from disabled worker ; and for connected purpose . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and my proud membership of Unison . I thank the Minister for Social Security and Disability , my right hon . friend the Member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , for be present today . before be elect , I be the national officer for disability equality at the country ' s big trade union , Unison . I be also a shop steward for many year , where I represent worker who be have problem at work , and it be disabled worker more than any other who be face problem . in fact , disabled worker make up about two third of my case as a union rep . by law , employer have to make change to help disabled people stay in their job . these be call reasonable adjustment . they can include change such as a special keyboard to reduce arthritis pain , it software to help worker with dyslexia , or a start time of 10 o ' clock instead of 9 o ' clock , after tablet have kick in . Unison ' s research find that almost three quarter of disabled worker be turn down for such reasonable adjustment , and even where the employer have say yes , about a quarter of disabled worker wait a year or more to have the change put in place . the most common story I hear from disabled worker be that they be just ignore by their employer — they never get a reply at all . for many , that mean that they have to do their job while in pain , or they be set up to fail , because they do not have the right equipment . their manager would start to criticise their performance , because it be hard for someone to hit their target when they be in constant pain . they would end up have to take time off sick . before they know it , they would be push out the door . other just resign because the pain or stress be too much . that be all because their employer refuse to make those small change that would have keep they in work . employer can get away with this because there be no legal deadline by which they have to reply to disabled worker ' request for reasonable adjustment . that contrast with other employment right , such as flexible working request , where the employer have to reply within eight week . there be no such rule for reasonable adjustment . that serious gap be lead to disabled people be push out of good job and on to benefit . my Bill would set a clear deadline for employer to reply to disabled worker make a request for reasonable adjustment . there be already more than 5 million disabled people in work , but that represent less than 52 % of disabled people , compare with 80 % of non - disabled people be in work . that 29 - point difference between the percentage of disabled people in employment versus non - disabled people be call the disability employment gap , and government have try and fail to crack it for year . this Labour Government be finally offer disabled people a chance at equality . we have already pass the Employment Rights Bill , which give everyone the right to flexible working , but that will especially help disabled people , who could benefit from more break or part - time work to manage pain or fatigue . on top of that , our pathway to work plan will invest £ 1 . 8 billion into employment support for disabled people . a recent Learning and Work Institute report find that two in 10 disabled people on benefit want to work , but at least half of they be get no help to find a job . when I visit West Ealing jobcentre in my constituency last August and ask staff who a disabled person could speak to about find a job that meet their need , they have no answer — there be no help available . imagine what it must be like for someone who want to work but be stick in a system that will not let they , and that force they to live on benefit when they do not want to and do not have to . this government be invest in new trailblazer scheme to support disabled people who want to work . as part of that , the West London Alliance , which cover Ealing Southall , do a simple thing . it send an email to local disabled people on long - term sickness benefit due to musculoskeletal condition and ask whether they want help find a job . More than 200 of people reply straightaway to say yes , they want help . that be 200 disabled people who have be sit on benefit with no help at all under the previous Government . labour ' s plan will give disabled people who want to work the help they need . our Employment Rights Bill and our increase to the national living wage will ensure that those be good - quality , decently pay job , too . this Labour Government ' s plan to get Britain work also offer a once - in - a - generation opportunity to radically transform the workplace so that it finally work for disabled people . Sir Charlie Mayfield , the former John Lewis boss , have be ask by Government to come up with idea to make work more accessible and to ensure that employer take more responsibility for support disabled worker to stay in their job . my Bill would give a right to a response to reasonable adjustment request to the 5 million disabled people already in work , and it would help open up job to hundred and thousand of disabled people who want to work , but I look forward to see what other idea the report identify . I hope that the Mayfield review will look at some of the demand of the disability employment charter , of which I be a found member when I work for Unison . it include idea such as a strong right to pay disability leave for assessment , rehabilitation and training . the Learning and Work Institute report find that , take together , the investment that the Labour Government be make could lead to up to 165 , 000 disabled people move from benefit to decent job — what an achievement that would be . too many disabled people face lose job they love because employer simply do not give they the help they need to thrive at work . the Government ' s record £ 1 . 8 billion investment in employment support will help disabled people who want to work , but we must ensure that those job be long - lasting . that be why employer must be hold to a clear deadline to agree to the small change that disabled worker need in order to get on at work . the Government ' s get Britain Working plan be an opportunity to transform the workplace so that it fit around the need of disabled worker . my new Bill would support that aim by give more disabled people the chance to enjoy good - quality job , which be the good route out of poverty and can unleash their many talent . I hope that the Government will consider take it forward . question put and agree to . order , that Deirdre Costigan , Katrina Murray , Mark Ferguson , Anneliese Midgley , Laurence Turner , Sarah Russell , Chris Bloore , Lee Barron , Tom Rutland , Uma Kumaran , Natasha Irons and Dr Marie Tidball present the Bill . Deirdre Costigan accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 13 June , and to be print ( Bill 247 ) . victim and Courts Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . when the Government take office just 10 month ago , we inherit a justice system in crisis — our prison be on the point of collapse , and the backlog in our court be at record level and rise fast — and victim be all too often pay the price . the Government be begin the long and hard work of rebuild our justice system so that it serve victim once more . in my eye , that mean meet three principle . the first be that justice must be swift . it be all too easily say that justice delay mean justice deny , but few have have the bravery to wrestle with the implication of that . this government be invest more in court sit day than any before they , but we know that that be not enough , so we will pursue reform — even if it court opposition — in the pursuit of swifter justice for victim . that be why I have ask Sir Brian Leveson to propose once - in - a - generation reform of our court . jury trial will always be a cornerstone of our legal system for the most serious case , but it be clear that we must consider whether there be case hear before a jury today that could be hear in a different way , such as in front of a magistrate or a new intermediate court , in order to deliver the swifter justice that victim deserve . the second principle of a justice system that serve victim be that punishment must be certain . this Government inherit the grotesque position of have more prisoner than prison cell . if prison run out of space , victim pay the price . if court hold trial and the police be force to stop make arrest , crime go unpunished and victim see no justice do . this government will ensure that criminal face punishment . we be build 14 , 000 prison place in the large expansion since the victorian era , after 14 year in which the Conservatives add just 500 cell to our prison estate . we be also reform sentencing so that our prison never run out of space again and there be always space inside for dangerous offender . the third and final principle of a justice system that serve victim be that they be not retraumatise by their engagement with it . that third principle be what unite the specific measure set out in the Bill , and I will start by speak about those which will force criminal to attend their sentencing in court . in recent year , too many offender have be allow to cower in their cell rather than face the consequence of their action . that be a final insult to victim and their family because it rob they of the chance to tell offender , through victim impact statement , the pain they have cause . it rob victim and their family of the opportunity to look the offender in the eye and see they face the consequence of their crime and the full reality of their punishment . the Bill will change that . the Bill give judge the power to order criminal to attend sentencing hearing , it make it clear that reasonable force can be use to ensure that happen and it hand out punishment to those who still defy that order . adult offender could face up to an additional two year in prison and an unlimited fine . I know , however , that that be little punishment for those who be serve long sentence or perhaps whole life order , because they do not expect to see the light of day at all . for that reason , we will also give judge the power to impose prison sanction on offender , include confine criminal to their cell , the loss of privilege and , go far , limit on social visit . if offender appear in the dock but behave in a disruptive or disrespectful way , as have all too often be the case in recent month , judge must have the ability to remove they from the courtroom so that the hearing can continue and justice can be serve . the Bill will give a judge the ability to impose the same penalty both on those who refuse to attend their sentencing and on those who attend but attempt to disrupt proceeding . while the previous Government bring forward similar measure , we be go far by expand the range of punishment available through amend prison rule , which will expand the sanction available to judge , and by extend the length of time for which such sanction can be apply . I welcome this section of the Bill . my constituent , Sabina Nessa , be brutally murder when she be on her way out to meet a friend . her murderer refuse to attend court and participate in his sentencing , and that cause a great deal of distress to her family . I therefore welcome the move not just to force these character to turn up in court , but to apply sanction when they do not comply ; my right hon . friend be to be congratulate on that . my hon . friend speak of one of the tragic case that have lead to these change in the law and on which , in fairness , the previous Government be also seek to act before the election be call . we be pleased to go far on sanction . I know that some of the family we be talk about be here and I will pay tribute to they in a few moment ' time . we will take a delegate power to allow the Secretary of State to specify sanction in regulation . those regulation will provide discretion to prison governor , who hold a legal responsibility and accountability for what happen inside prison . judge will retain discretion over when to order offender to attend . this mean that , in case where a victim ' s family do not want to see the offender force to attend , judge can decide differently . as this be a delegate power , the list of sanction be not present on the face of the Bill , but it will be root in the Prison Rules 1999 , which will be amend and extend . the Secretary of State will have the ability to add more sanction quickly and easily , should that be necessary . this approach offer much more flexibility than a rigid list , which would require the lengthy process of primary legislation to amend it . I know that , for many , this day have be a long time come . I be sure the House will therefore join I in pay tribute to the family of Olivia Pratt - Korbel , Jan Mustafa , Zara Aleena and Sabina Nessa , and I would like to welcome to this place Cheryl Korbel , Antonia Elverson , Jebina Islam , and Ayse Hussein and her daughter Angel , who be in the Public Gallery today . they have suffer unimaginable pain and then face the indescribable trauma of an offender who would not face they . they have fight tirelessly to bring about this law , and we owe they a debt of thank for their courage and fortitude . today be their day , and it will have a lasting impact for other yet to come , who should never have to face what they have endure . while nothing will ever lessen the pain of such immense loss suffer by these family , this measure in the Bill be bring forward in the name and memory of Olivia , Zara , Sabina and Jan . the Bill will also address the trauma that reverberate year after a parent have sexually abuse their child . today , a parent convict of sexually abuse their child can continue to exercise parental responsibility for they . from behind bar , these vile abuser have be able to continue interfere in the life of their child . today a mother have to request that parental responsibility be restrict in a case where a father have commit a sexual offence against their child ; now , we will automatically restrict the exercise of parental responsibility by anyone sentence to four year or more for serious child sexual abuse against their child . this will restrict those right from the moment of sentencing , so that child be immediately protect . it send a clear message that abuser no long have the power to exercise control . make this step automatic will spare family the trauma of have to go through proceeding in the family court , give they the space they need to begin healing and move on with their life . the previous Government bring forward proposal in their Criminal Justice Bill to apply this measure to offence commit against all child , but that measure be restrict to child rape . under their proposal , a parent could commit a wide range of heinous sexual offence against their child , include sexual assault and sexual exploitation , and not be cover . we believe that be too narrowly draw ; it overlook the devastating impact of a parent commit other serious sexual offence against their own child — so although we support the measure in opposition , we be now strengthen they in government . our measure will cover all serious sexual offence commit by a parent against a child they have parental responsibility for , such as sexual assault and sexual exploitation , cause a child to watch a sexual act and sexual activity without consent . there be no deny that we be in novel territory with this measure and , as such , we have a duty to take a balanced approach . this automatic restriction can , and likely will , be challenge . we do not yet know how many challenge the court will receive . we have a responsibility to ensure that the court be not overwhelmed , and that vulnerable child go through the family court do not suffer . for that reason , we have choose to expand the offence beyond child rape , but to begin by restrict our measure to serious sexual offence where a perpetrator hold parental responsibility for their victim . I have hear the strength of feeling from survivor and campaigner who want to see our measure extend to all offence against any child , not just where a perpetrator have parental responsibility . I understand the call on we to be as ambitious as possible , and to expand this to a wide cohort of offender , but we believe that our measure be strong than what come before and be the right starting point for this novel change . we will work collaboratively and constructively with member from across the House , and with those in the sector . I say to they that this be the beginning of legal change in this area , not the end . the Bill will also strengthen the power of the Victims ' Commissioner , so that victim be not force to fight every fight themselves , but have the commissioner — both the individual and the office — to fight for they . that will ensure that there be proper accountability when victim be let down by the justice system , and that victim be not retraumatise by have to fight for every improvement to the system . my hon . and learn Friend be make an excellent presentation to the House . my constituent Kevin Curran have campaign all his life in memory of his brother Declan , who tragically take his own life . he be a victim of child sexual abuse . the ability to access therapeutic service be one issue , but another be that many provider be reluctant to give their service because evidence from medical record could be use to try to break a case . will my hon . and learn Friend ensure not only that people can access therapeutic service , but that their record will not be use in evidence to destroy a case ? my hon . friend raise an important point , and I be sorry about the case of her constituent . she will know that her request be one of the lead recommendation of the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse , and the Department of Health and Social Care have commit to take it forward . I know that we will see more progress make in this area . under the Bill , for the first time , the Victims ' Commissioner will be able to act on individual case that expose systemic failure . they will have the power to request information from agency on why a failing have happen , what will be do to address it , and how we can drive change across the system . I welcome the inclusion of this measure in the Bill . do the Lord Chancellor agree that the extension of the measure to local authority and social housing provider be essential if the Victims ' Commissioner be to fully represent victim of antisocial behaviour ? the hon . Member make a powerful point , and I will say later why the Government and I reject the idea that antisocial behaviour be low level and therefore outside the purview of the Victims ' commissioner ; that be why we be extend the commissioner ' s power . I welcome the support that the measure have receive from the hon . Gentleman and other across the House . I hope we can all work collaboratively on the measure to ensure that it take proper effect . the Bill will also require the commissioner to produce a new independent assessment each year , provide much - need scrutiny of how public agency meet their duty under the victim code . it will ensure that victim ' right be be uphold and , where they be not , that action be take . I thank the Minister for bring forward the Bill ; what she have outline be exactly what we want to hear . my constituent have ask I this question . during the restoration of justice , the victim often feel isolated from the process . do the Minister believe that if the Bill be to be effective , communication be key ? do the Bill go far enough in ensure an obligation to communicate ? I know she want that communication , but I ask for my constituent , and to satisfy my conscience . the hon . Member make an important point about communication with victim , and I will come a little later to the measure in that area that will enhance the system and provide a good foundation for we to build on , so that victim have the information that they need to get through criminal justice system process , and be keep update once an offender have serve their sentence and be on licence in the community . will the Minister give way again ? just once more — it be hard to say no to the hon . Gentleman ! will the Minister ensure that the legislation also apply to Northern Ireland ? I understand that it do , but I mean to ask that question before ; apology for not do so . these matter be devolve in Northern Ireland — the Bill apply to England and Wales — but we be in regular contact with our counterpart in Northern Ireland . I know that the Victims Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , will engage with counterpart to ensure that , where possible , arrangement reflect each other . we all have an interest in ensure that the whole system , across the UK , be as strong as it can be . the Bill will also ensure great accountability for how agency respond to victim of antisocial behaviour . as the House will know , that be an area in which many victim be not hear and not support . incident be too often dismiss as minor or low - level crime , when they have a devastating effect on local community and on people ' s life . the Bill will empower the Victims ' commissioner to request information from local authority , and from social housing provider , which sit outside the criminal justice system , so that the commissioner can well understand how victim of antisocial behaviour be be support . those measure be an important first step towards rebuild victim ' confidence in the system , ensure that their voice be hear , and leave public body in no doubt that they will be hold to account when they fall short . my right hon . friend be make an excellent and compelling speech . I warmly welcome what she be say , which closely resonate with the feeling of many of my constituent in read town centre and elsewhere who have unfortunately suffer from antisocial behaviour in many different form . I be sure that colleague from around the country have experience the same . I commend her approach and thank she for her work . I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . I know that this part of the Bill will get lot of support from across the House . by strengthen the Victims ' Commissioner ' s power , so that they can take more action on antisocial behaviour , it be important that we send the clear message that we will not tolerate antisocial behaviour ruin the life of constituent up and down the country . antisocial behaviour be a huge issue in my constituency . I have see its impact on many of my constituent ; it blight the community and make people fearful in their own home . I have feel my constituent ' real disappointment when it have be label low - level crime ; that have affect how support they feel . do my right hon . friend agree that we must absolutely ensure that antisocial behaviour be not dismiss as low - level crime , and that its victim be put at the forefront of our justice system ? my hon . friend be an assiduous champion for the people of Clwyd East . let I assure she that I approach this as a constituency MP just as much as I do as a Cabinet Minister . far too many of my constituent have , like hers , suffer antisocial behaviour and be unable to move on in their life because of the trauma that they suffer , day in , day out . they feel like nobody take it seriously . under the Bill , the Victims ' Commissioner will be able to hold local authority and social housing provider to account to ensure that they deliver for the victim of antisocial behaviour . let I move on to other measure in the Bill . the victim contact scheme play a critical role in ensure that information be communicate to those who be eligible to receive it . the legislation that govern it be over 20 year old , and there be issue with the scope and operation of the scheme . victim repeatedly say that the criminal justice system be too complex , disjointed and difficult to navigate , include when they try to access support . where we can simplify and rationalise the system , we should . that be why the Bill will streamline the system . it will bring victim who be currently serve by different operational scheme into the victim contact scheme , and will provide all victim with one clear route for request information , through a new dedicated helpline . take together , the measure will well support victim and ensure that they receive the right information about offender at the right time . I move on to measure that will improve efficiency and deliver swifter justice for the victim of crime . timely access to justice be a cornerstone of public confidence in our legal system , yet we face a shortage of prosecutor — an issue that directly contribute to delay in our court . legislation prevent the appointment of qualified legal professional — such as Chartered Institute of Legal Executives practitioner — as Crown prosecutor , even when those individual be eminently capable , have experience in criminal litigation , and hold the necessary right of audience . only this weekend , I be discuss with a district Crown prosecutor and another Crown prosecutor the backlog in our court system , and they express strong concern about the recruitment and retention problem in the Crown Prosecution Service . I welcome this new measure , which will go a long way to ensure that we have enough Crown prosecutor , so that the backlog in the court system can be ease . we hope that the Bill will provide some immediate relief when it come to the recruitment of prosecutor , because it will address an outdated constraint , remove unnecessary legislative barrier , and allow the CPS to recruit Crown prosecutor from a broad , more diverse pool of talent . estimate suggest that there may be more than 800 CILEX specialist criminal practitioner who have express an interest in become a Crown prosecutor . the measure will support great flexibility in resource , and may help to shorten waiting time for case to be prosecute . it support our manifesto pledge to ensure that more prosecutor be available and , above all , may help reduce the long , painful wait that many victim face for their case to come to court . we be committed to reform the private prosecution system , so that it be fair and have the right safeguard . through the Bill , we be take the first step towards long - term change . although private prosecution play an important role in our justice system , the way private prosecutor ’ cost be award can provide perverse incentive for firm to bring private prosecution . cost in private prosecution can be more than five time high than in case where both defence and prosecution be fund via fee that be set out in regulation . that be why the Bill will give the Lord Chancellor the power to make regulation to set rate at which prosecutor can recover their cost from central fund in private prosecution . that will ensure the good use of public fund and reduce the incentive for private prosecutor to prioritise profit when consider bring criminal proceeding . I be sure that my right hon . friend be about to mention that this come from a proposal make by the Justice Committee as long ago as 2020 , under my distinguished predecessor , Sir Bob Neill KC . I be glad to see that the measure be finally reach the statute book . I be just about to pay tribute to the Justice Committee for its work , to Sir Bob Neill , and to my hon . friend , the current esteemed Chair of that Committee . I thank he and member past and present for push for Government action on this matter , and I be glad that we have be able to include this measure in the Bill . let I turn to measure on the unduly lenient sentence scheme . as the House will know , the scheme be a safeguard that allow the Attorney General to refer certain case to the Court of Appeal . that action be take if it be believe that the original sentence do not adequately reflect the seriousness of the offence . however , in practice , the 28 - day statutory time limit for referral have prove problematic when case have be bring to the Attorney General ' s attention late in that period . the Bill will ensure that every eligible case be properly scrutinise , and will guarantee that the Attorney General have 14 full day to assess any request receive in the final fortnight of that 28 - day window . this change will ensure that enough time be allow for case to be fully consider and refer to the Court of Appeal as necessary , and will provide great clarity to victim , family and the public . finally , the Bill will create great consistency in the court through a targeted and technical amendment to magistrate court sentencing power for six offence . we be tidy up an anomaly that we inherit . these six offence be not include in legislative change make by the previous Government . by ensure that everything be align , this change will ultimately help to avoid confusion and error in sentencing . the Bill mark an important step forward in our mission to rebuild our justice system , so that it serve the victim who , in recent year , it have all too often fail . it bring forward long - overdue reform that will strengthen victim ' right , force offender to attend their sentencing hearing , restrict the parental responsibility of convict child sex offender , and far empower the Victims ' Commissioner . the criminal justice system in this country suffer terribly at the hand of the conservative party : the backlog in our court be long and grow long ; our prison be trap in a cycle of crisis ; and victim have pay the price . this government be begin the work of reverse that damage . we will deliver swifter justice for victim , and ensure that criminal face certain punishment and that our justice system serve victim , rather than subject they to trauma on top of what they have already suffer . I know this be just the beginning and that there be much more that we must do , but the work be under way and I look forward to a constructive debate ahead . I commend the Bill to the House . in recent month , I have sit with Jeremy and Susan Everard , whose daughter , Sarah , be murder in the most horrific circumstance ; with Paula Hudgell , whose little boy , Tony , lose both leg through brutality and who ask why his abuser will one day walk free ; with Katie Brett , whose sister , Sasha , be stab to death at 16 ; and with Ayse Hussein , cousin of Jan Mustafa , whose body be find in a freezer after a catalogue of official failing . their story be harrowing and their bravery and resilience be incredibly inspiring . they , and the relative of countless other victim , have form the Justice for Victims campaign group , because serious criminal be " escape proper punishment . " their demand be clear : make the system value the life of those who be damage or even take . we welcome legislation in the name of victim , but it must be worthy of that title . a Bill that carry the word " victim " should put victim first in practice and not just in prose . I appreciate , as the Secretary of State have rightly say , that some measure in the Bill be strong than those in the predecessor Bill , but some measure be less strong , or at least different , to those in the prior Bill . parliamentary time be precious . I know from my own period in government that one can not always return to the same issue time and again , however worthy the topic , so we must not waste the opportunity afford by the Bill to enact the most radical and serious change to rebalance the criminal justice system in favour of victim . I will explain why and make what I hope will be see as constructive proposal to the Secretary of State . first , victim rightly want offender to face they at sentence and to confront their crime . all too often , cowardly criminal squirm away from the consequence of their action , so I welcome the intent behind clause 1 , which propose to correct that . I question how the Minister will deliver recalcitrant offender to court , when our own prison officer be already fight for their life with bare hand and little serious protection . that be not a new problem , but it be one that we all have to confront together . with no kit , there can be no confidence . in the wake of the HMP Frankland attack , the Minister ' s idea of a limited taser trial sometime this summer in a handful of prison , for specifically train staff only , seem inadequate . we still do not issue every single officer with a stab - proof vest ; body armour be " under review " . clause 1 , for understandable and right reason , pile fresh duty on staff , who tell I that they be already one assault away from leave the service . until Ministers issue full body armour and staff our escort unit properly , this duty will be a burden to they . officer will not feel safe to force violent offender out of their cell , not least because the Bill afford they only the use of " reasonable force " , not the ability to use force as long as it be not grossly disproportionate , which should surely be the threshold in law . judge make such order need only to take into consideration the " reasonable excuse " of an offender to override the concern and the will of victim . what be the reasonable excuse to dodge justice ? surely that should be tighten to the most exceptional circumstance . where in this Bill be the right for victim ' view to be hear and record in court ? some victim will want the offender to come before the court , even in the knowledge that they will be highly disruptive , challenge the solemnity of the court and , frankly , behave in a way that many would consider to be deeply shocking and even scar . surely that should be broadly the victim ' s choice ; they should at least be properly consult by the judge . this legislation be ultimately for the victim , even if the judge might have reservation or it lead to challenge situation or confrontation that we be not accustomed to in our court . do my right hon . friend agree that use the test of reasonable force , as the Lord Chancellor propose , raise the unpleasant prospect that prisoner so forced might bring claim for damage against the Lord Chancellor , which would be a further insult to victim ? I firmly support my right hon . friend ' s view that " grossly disproportionate " be the correct legal test to use . I agree with the point that my hon . friend have make . give that the threshold of " grossly disproportionate " be an available and establish concept in law , why not apply it in these circumstance , so that we can equip the criminal justice system with the standard it need to ensure that in all bar the most exceptional circumstance , these individual be bring to court if it be the wish of the victim of crime ? secondly , minister say that clause 3 protect child from predatory parent , but the devil be in the detail . only abuse of an offender ' s own child count — a point understandably make by the Labour party when it be in opposition . if a man rape a neighbour ' s child , he keep full right over his own infant daughter . the BBC this morning highlight the case of Bethan , who be force to spend £ 30 , 000 in the family court to strip her ex - husband , jail for the grave of offence , of parental responsibility . bethan ' s family call the Bill very disappointing , because it would not protect they . additionally , offender jail for three year and 11 month , which be still a grave sentence , retain their right . where be the logic behind four year ? thus far , that be unexplained . where be the child ' s good interest ? conversely , the Bill state that the order " do not cease to have effect if … the offender be acquit " on appeal , so an exonerated parent may still be bar for life unless they marshal fund to return to court . that be neither proportionate nor principle . I appreciate the Secretary of State ' s view that that may well be a starting point , but let we get this clause right . this be the opportunity , and it may well be the only one for some time . I turn to clause 11 . the unduly lenient sentence scheme be the last safety valve for victim when a judge get it badly wrong , and I know how important that be . just last week , a case that I refer to the Attorney General alongside my hon . friend the Member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) be hear in the Court of Appeal , and three defendant have their sentence increase . today , a victim have only 28 day from the date of sentence to request that the Attorney General make a referral . that clock start even while they be still wait for the official transcript to land . everyone in this House have meet family who discover the scheme after the deadline , who will forever wonder whether justice slip through their finger because they Google - search the rule a week too late or do not reach out to their lawyer or friend in the system who be more knowledgeable . I have be very strike recently when speak to victim — even victim of some of the most prominent and heinous crime of modern time , who one might have think would have be equip with the very good legal advice and support — who simply do not know that the scheme even exist , let alone that it have such a short time limit attach to it . clause 11 give only the Attorney General , not the victim , an extra 14 day when the paperwork arrive on day 28 . official get six week ; the mother of a murder child still get only four . minister claim that this be level the playing field , but it be nothing of the sort . victim ’ group , from rape and sexual abuse centre to the Centre for Women ' s Justice , have plead for a straightforward fix : double the victim application window to 56 day , and require the Crown Prosecution Service to notify every complainant in writing of the existence of the scheme and of that deadline on the day of the sentence . those group ask for time ; on this occasion , the Government have deliver bureaucracy . that be clause 11 in a nutshell — a lifeline for Whitehall and the Attorney General ' s staff , but not for the people we be send to Parliament to defend . let I now turn to what the Bill do not try to do . the court backlog be spiral , and the Ministry of Justice can not yet provide a date by which it will start to come down . go before the Justice Select Committee , its permanent secretary could not answer that most basic question for an official charge with lead the service . when be this go to start get well ? case be be list today for as far away as 2029 ; meanwhile , victim be in limbo with their life leave on hold . justice delay be justice deny . today , 74 courtroom across the country be sit empty because the Justice Secretary still have not take the Lady Chief Justice up on her offer of extra sitting day . there be barely anything in this Bill that will put a dent in the court backlog — nothing that maximise court sitting day . not one clause address listing , disclosure or digital evidence . for many people , our justice system be opaque and secretive . I be a firm believer that sunlight be the good disinfectant — that great transparency drive change and enhance confidence — but there be nothing in this Bill that enhance transparency on the court backlog , such as publish the number of courtroom that be not sit each day and why they be not sit . it fall to start - up produce website and app to provide that information , not the Ministry of Justice itself . nothing in this Bill increase access to court transcript , so that victim , the press and the public can see justice dispense . that issue be recently give further prominence by the public ' s shock and anger when they hear or read fragment of the transcript of groom gang trial . as technology transform the ability of the court to provide reliable transcript use artificial intelligence , we should provide a well and more transparent service to the public and the medium . that be possible , so why not use this Bill to establish basic standard in law for the benefit of every victim across our country ? there be also nothing in the Bill that mandate the publication of datum on offender ' visa status or asylum status , so that we know where offender be come from . we need that information in order to design a criminal justice system and , above all , an immigration system that protect the british public . the London Victims ' Commissioner have say that the £ 1 billion of unpaid court fine be " truly astounding " , and that the failure of the Courts and Tribunals Service to recoup outstanding offender ’ fine must come under great scrutiny . again , the Bill be silent on that — it contain no extra power to recoup that money . at a time when the Ministry of Justice ' s budget be unquestionably under strain , why not do everything to recoup unpaid court fine , begin with those ? victim be suffer as a result . we welcome legislation in the name of victim , but it must be worthy of that title . victim have ask for justice that be swift and certain ; in many respect , this Bill be slow and tentative . I urge the Government to amend it — to strengthen it — so that it really do put victim first , in practice and not just in prose . where it do , the Secretary of State and the Government will have our support , for justice and for the victim . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . this Bill build on the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 , pass by the last Parliament , to improve the experience of victim in the criminal justice system , the function of the Victims ' Commissioner and , more generally , the administration of criminal justice . like its predecessor , this Bill be publish against the backdrop of significant court backlog , with victim of crime too often wait year for their case to come to court , and with criminal legal aid advocate turn away from the profession . this Government have take step to tackle those deep - root problem , build up over year by the last government ' s failure to invest in the criminal justice system , but until they be resolve , victim will continue to suffer harm for too long . on 27 March this year , the late criminal court statistic be publish , show a record high of 74 , 651 outstanding case in the Crown court , as at the end of December 2024 . also in March , the Victims ' Commissioner publish a report entitle " Justice delay : the impact of the Crown court backlog on victim , victim service and the criminal justice system " . the report conclude : " with the increase number of victim hold in the system because of the backlog , victim service be under increase pressure which impair their ability to provide the accessible , high - quality support that victim need . " it call for " the government to explore how victim whose case be go to trial might be give a single point of contact to improve communication and ensure their victim ' code entitlement be deliver … the restoration of an independent Courts ' inspectorate so that the operation of the Court Service be subject to rigorous independent scrutiny … provide emergency funding to victim support service to help they cope with increase caseload arise from the court backlog crisis . " my right hon . friend the Lord Chancellor write to the Select Committee in April , in response to concern that change propose in Sir Brian Leveson ' s review would not have a direct impact on delay in the Crown court for a considerable time . my right hon . Friend note : " the system require substantial reform , and the department look forward to receive the Independent Review of the Criminal Courts ' recommendation on long - term structural reform option later this spring , follow by recommendation on the efficiency and timeliness of court process by Autumn . " it be against that challenging background that we debate the Bill today . I welcome the measure in it , and I know that the ministerial team will use the leverage that it give they to improve the lot of victim in the criminal justice system , but , as in every other aspect of the work of the Ministry of Justice , they have be set a difficult task by past neglect . let I comment briefly on the main provision in the Bill . first , it deal with attendance at sentencing hearing . it will give Crown court judge an express statutory power to order the attendance of offender at their sentencing hearing and to sanction those who refuse to comply with such an order , or who attend but then commit contempt by misbehave or disrupt the proceeding and be remove as a result . they may receive up to two year ' additional imprisonment and / or the imposition of prison sanction . those proposal have be welcome by advocate for victim and organisation work in the violence against woman and girl sector . however , there be some concern about how these provision will work in practice and about the implication for judge , court staff , prison officer , prison escort officer and prison governor . secondly , the Bill deal with restrict parental responsibility . concern have be raise that people convict of serious crime can retain their parental responsibility unless an application be make to the court to restrict or terminate it . that mean , for example , that they can potentially ask for school report , be consult on medical issue , and withhold their consent to a child ' s go on holiday or be issue with a passport . in last year ' s King ' s Speech , the Government commit to legislate to restrict parental responsibility for child sex offender . the new provision automatically restrict a person ' s parental responsibility when they be sentence to four or more year in prison for a " serious " child sexual abuse offence against a child for whom they hold parental responsibility . this mean that instead of the non - offend parent or carer have to drive the process , the offender ' s parental responsibility will be automatically restrict at the point when they be sentence . thirdly , I will discuss victim ' right . the Bill will : update the Domestic Violence , Crime and Victims Act 2004 to expand the eligibility criterion to victim of more offence , who will then be cover by the victim contact scheme ; create a victim helpline for some victim who be not cover by the scheme ; expand the definition of " victim " for the purpose of the scheme ; and ensure great consistency for victim of offender who be subject to a hospital order . fourthly , I will address the power of the Victims ' Commissioner . in their manifesto , the Government commit to increase the power of the Victims ' Commissioner . the Bill achieve that by allow the Victims ' commissioner to exercise their function in individual case that raise public policy issue , place a duty on local authority and social housing provider to co - operate with the commissioner for the purpose of support victim and witness of antisocial behaviour , and empower the commissioner to report independently on the victim ' code . fifthly , I will speak to prosecution . the Bill seek to increase the flexibility of the director of public prosecution in appoint Crown prosecutor . it will remove the legislative barrier that be prevent CILEX lawyer , who have specialist qualification and more limited right of audience , from become Crown prosecutor . sixthly , I will discuss the cost of private prosecution . in June 2020 , the Justice Committee launch an inquiry into the fairness of private prosecution and the need for procedural safeguard , follow a request from the Criminal Cases Review Commission that arise from the Horizon scandal . the Committee recommend that the Government should " urgently review funding arrangement for private prosecution in order to address the inequality of access " and " ensure a fair balance between the prosecutor and the defendant " . in March 2021 the then Government accept the Committee ' s conclusion and agree that " cost recoverable from central fund by a private prosecutor should be limit in the same way that cost so recoverable by an acquit defendant already be , by be cap at legal aid rate . " they say that this would require amendment to the exist legislation , and I be pleased that , through clause 10 , the Lord Chancellor be able to make regulation to achieve that aim . finally , the Bill introduce great flexibility into the unduly lenient sentence scheme , as request by , among other , the Victims ' Commissioner for London . there be other technical change in the Bill , but those be the major proposal and I welcome they all . in aggregate , they both assist victim in their progress through the criminal justice system and reform that system to make it more consistent and user - friendly . the Bill be not a panacea for the trouble afflict the criminal court — that will require more radical root - and - branch reform , and for that we await the finding of the independent review — but it be a step along the road towards a fair and more humane criminal justice system for victim . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it mean a lot to be speak about this Bill as the Liberal Democrats ’ justice spokesperson , but also as someone who have engage extensively with the criminal justice system as a victim . when I come out the other end of a gruelling Crown court trial as a victim several year ago , I pledge to myself that I would do everything I could to play a part in fix a system that too often re - traumatise and punish victim . when I be part of survivor group therapy with Survivors UK a few year ago , I process my experience of abuse alongside 11 other brave man , some of whom be watch today . I swear to those lad that I would never forget their story , and that I would do what I could to help transform our pain into justice for victim and survivor in the future . when I meet victim of crime who come to see I for help in my constituency , I promise they that I will throw the kitchen sink at fight for the support that they need and deserve , so my contribution today be for all of they . I say on their behalf that it be time to shift the centre of gravity back to victim in our criminal justice system . it be time to give victim their voice back . it be time to dignify victim ' experience with action . that be why Liberal Democrats fully support the Bill ' s effort to address , for example , the horror of child still be subject to the parental responsibility of those deplorable parent who be convict of serious sexual offence against they . that be why we welcome the propose victim ' helpline , eligible for victim whose perpetrator be sentence , regardless of length , so they can get information about perpetrator ' release and so on . that will go some way to help address some of the concern I have express about the shortcoming of the exist victim contact scheme . I thank the Government for take on board the feedback from I and many other member and group . it be why the Liberal Democrats also welcome the Bill ' s measure to strengthen the power of the Victims ' Commissioner , empower they almost to act more like an ombudsman who can take up the cause of individual victim where it be in the public interest . that be why we agree that defendant should participate in sentencing hearing , because robust rehabilitation necessarily involve face up to one ' s action and understand the impact of they on their victim . liberal Democrats believe that the Bill could be even more ambitious for victim and survivor . that be why , while support the Bill in the remain stage of the legislative process , we will be challenge the Government to address some of the serious omission that stand to leave victim without the protection they need . the first — the Minister know this be come — be on domestic abuse . the Liberal Democrats have highlight that this Government have inherit a scandalous state of affair , where the state do not know how many domestic abuser be behind bar . the Government do not know the reoffende rate of domestic abuser in our criminal justice system . the reason be that there be not a specific identifier in our system , whether it be an offence or something else . since November last year , we have be scream out for the Government to deploy robust measure to officially identify domestic abuse perpetrator on a statutory basis , so that victim and survivor can be well protect . I be genuinely grateful that the Government have agree to seriously develop a way of identify perpetrator . I know that work be happen behind the scene , but I would like the Minister to confirm on the record whether we can work together to achieve that in this Bill , or , if not in this Bill , in which piece of legislation in future we might be able to see some progress . the second gap be on court transcript . victim and survivor need measure that deliver fair access to court transcript . the shadow Justice Secretary forget to mention that my hon . friend the Member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) have lead the way on the issue in this place , repeatedly urge the previously government to make permanent the pilot scheme . one of my constituent , a victim of domestic abuse , have write to I about the work Sarah have do , which have resonate across the country . my constituent say that access to transcript be difficult . she welcome the pilot from the Ministry of Justice but say that the communication around that for victim be not good enough . do my hon . friend agree that , whatever work be do , we need to ensure that victim be communicate with so that they know what power they have to access the information they need ? order . I remind member that we refer to colleague not by their first or second name , but by their constituency . I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . she be absolutely right ; it be critical not only that victim ' right be strengthen , but that victim have the knowledge of those right and entitlement so that they can invoke they , enforce they and , fundamentally , benefit from they . my hon . friend the Member for Richmond Park have be urge the Government to make permanent the pilot scheme that afford victim of rape and other sexual offence a record of their sentencing remark free of charge . she have campaign on this issue for year , not just since the populist bandwagon have be in town , like some other in this House . with the pilot scheme end imminently , we must not return to a world in which some victim be charge up to a staggering £ 22 , 000 just to see a write - up of their case . this be exclusionary justice , deliver at an eye - watering price . as well as campaign for the pilot to be extend , we would therefore push the Government to expand it to cover a far wide pool of victim and survivor . on a similar note , as a constituency MP , I encourage the Government to take step to encourage not just write but audiovisual record of court proceeding to be make available to victim and survivor . a mother come to a recent constituency surgery to share with I that her son , who have special educational need and be non - verbal , be restrain on home - to - school transport , and legal proceeding be kick off as a result . the mother do not get to see the video evidence of the incident until the court case , and have have no access to that harrowing and traumatic evidence since . she ought to have the right to it , so I hope the Government will be able to help we on that matter . a third gap be on national insurance contribution . we need support for victim ' charity , who have say that the hike in contribution in the Budget will take their service and the victim who rely on they to the brink . a fourth gap be on family court . we need measure to prevent abuser from use parental alienation proceeding to perpetrate their abuse . a fifth gap be on the court backlog , which leave so many victim in the lurch for year — when can victim expect to see measure to tackle they ? in conclusion , the Liberal Democrats be concerned that these gap in the Bill risk overshadow many measure that I know minister have be work hard on . we look forward to support the Bill and its effort to ensure that victim be hear , protect and respect . we will challenge the Government to go far and fast to ensure that victim and survivor get the support they deserve and that they do not pay the price for the neglect they be subject to under the previous Government . there be many colleague hope to contribute ; to enable hon . member to prepare , I inform the House that after the next speaker there will be a speak limit of four minute . today , I will speak to one part of the Bill , which will require convict offender to attend their sentencing hearing and provide consequence where they refuse . it be know as Olivia ' s law . Olivia Pratt - Korbel be nine year old when she be murder in her own home by a stranger with a gun . the murderer , Thomas Cashman , fire a bullet through the door of Olivia ' s home , which pass through the wrist of my constituent , Cheryl Korbel — Olivia ' s mother — before hit Olivia in the chest and end her life . Cheryl and her cousin Antonia be with we in the Under - Gallery today . to lose a child to murder in your own home , while you try to protect they , be a burden that no parent should ever be ask to bear , but under our current justice system convict criminal can opt out of attend their own sentencing . that be what Olivia ' s murderer do . cashman remain in his cell , refuse to face the court , to hear Cheryl ' s word or to look she in the eye . it be the act of a coward . that injustice must end . nothing in this world can bring Olivia back . but instead of collapse under this weight , Cheryl fight back . she and her family have campaign so that no other family would suffer the same . Olivia ' s law be her work . it be Olivia ' s legacy , and it be Cheryl ' s legacy . today I will read out Cheryl ' s victim impact statement . these be the word that the murderer — the coward — Thomas Cashman refuse to hear . I want the word of Cheryl Korbel commit to this House , so that they will be on record in this place forever . let her word ring out in this Chamber , like they should have do in Cashman ' s ear that day . " Olivia be bear six week early on 13 June 2013 at Whiston hospital weigh 4lbs 2 oz . she be so tiny that she fit in one hand . she have the most beautiful tan skin . there wasn ' t a blemish on she . the tiny little bundle grow into a toddler , have the most perfect chubby roll on her leg . every time we go out , we be stop by anyone and everyone , say how beautiful she be , especially her big , beautiful brown eye and thick curly hair . Ryan and Chloe adore she as their baby sister . she sleep in my room until she be one and then she move into the big room with Chloe . liv wasn ' t the well sleeper and would wake up of a night . often by the time I get to her Chloe be already up and soothe she . Chloe be like a second mother to Liv . the year pass by too quick and Liv start nursery . she be love by everyone . she love to play , in particular playing house and princess . Cinderella be their favourite . at home she would dress her dog Gizmo up in a blanket and put he in a pram , push he around the house . Gizmo still bring his blanket into I now . More year pass and Liv skip into her first day of reception . I be heartbroken but she be so happy and content . I couldn ' t believe my baby be go into big school . she love help other and especially the role of be the teacher ' s helper . she have a special bond with one of her teacher . Liv be such a social butterfly . she be particularly good with young child and be such a caring little girl . Liv have really long and beautiful brown hair . something she be very proud and particular about . a few week before she be cruelly take away from we Liv have hear about the Little Princess Trust and what they do , from a friend in school . after talk to I , Liv decide she want to donate 12 inch of her hair , in her word , ' for the sick kid to have beautiful wig ' . we then go online together and apply for the sponsor form . Liv be due to have her hair cut on 27 August . Liv be a girly girl and love to play with makeup . she love shoe with heel on . she didn ' t want to wear trainer , ever . she have her own style and would wear what she want to wear even though it often didn ' t match . she would go to our Tony ' s house with the girl and come down in their clothe and say she ' d just find they . those clothe would then make their way to our house and the girl would never see they again . as Ryan and Chloe get old and begin do their own thing , it become mostly I and she on our own . she be nickname my shadow . we be just always together , I , Liv and Pearl her purple bear . this be once Chloe ' s bear , but Liv take a liking to it and decide it be now hers . Pearl be her comfort blanket . each evening be different with Liv . one night we could be watch Matilda while she be upside down on the couch . the next night , she would leave I watch H2O while she sneak upstairs to Ryan ' s room whilst he be out so she could lie on his bed watch YouTube on her iPad . Liv never stop talk . literally never . even if she wasn ' t directly talk to anyone , she would be chat away . one thing I miss most be hear she say ' mum ' . I just miss hear her voice . it ' s just so quiet . I would do and give anything in the world to have she chat to I . it ' s so very lonely without she . everything be just so quiet . I just can ' t cope with the silence . set my alarm at half seven in the morning be something I still do because it ' s ingrained in I . the day go by in a blur and then get to half two and I think about the school pickup , something I will never get to do again as a mum . she be and will always be my baby . but I miss the routine we have . my mind keep tell I that I ' ve forget to pick she up from school . now tea time be a big thing for I . because it be so centred around she and what she want for tea . everything I do and everywhere I go be a constant reminder that she be not there with I . this happen in our home where we feel safe and should have be safe . we have no choice but to leave the home that be Liv ' s first and only home . when the police leave and we weren ' t allow back there , it be heartbreaking . I walk in and it be if time have stand still . the cup of tea still sit on the coffee table , next to her Little Princess Trust sponsor form . liv ' s new bike still prop up on its stand . one of her doll lay on the living room floor and her brand new sparkly shoe in a box . right at that moment I be home . we be back to how our life be before that night . and I soak up the surrounding until reality dawn and bring I back to my living nightmare . pack up our home be horrendous . have to pack up our life , have to strip Liv ' s bed , pack her clothe , toy , jewellery , her memory into a box . no mother should ever have to do that . we leave our friend , our neighbour . my neighbour Chris be amazing and often when I need to go to work would sit with Liv until Chloe get home from college . it ' s so hard to go back to the area where I grow up and where I raise all three of my child , the area where some of my close friend live . the small of thing remind I of Liv , her friend play in the street . when I see they it ' s hard to accept she be no long here . move into the new house be difficult for all of we . not be able to make her bed , put her clothe away . the toothbrush in the bathroom and not have her favourite food in the fridge . and that night when I realise Liv have be shoot and need I . I be not able to do cpr properly on she because of my injury . I do not have full use of my hand and I feel helpless . it be only then my neighbour come in and try all he could to save my baby . my bad nightmare be be separate from Liv and not be with she when she need I the most . I be the first person to hold my baby girl and as her mum I should have be the last . I can not get my head around how Cashman continue to shoot after hear the terrify scream . the utter devastation he have cause , he doesn ' t care . how could he ? his action have leave the big hole in our life that can never be fill . that man set out to do a job and he didn ' t care about anyone else . or who get in the way . he certainly couldn ' t own it either . Ryan , Chloe and I be just exist day to day and have be since it happen . we have be wait for the trial and focus on it and not address how utterly broken we be as a family . I can not even think about rebuild our life without she . because of this we have miss out on so much , my nan who be 92 adore Liv and liv she . recently my nan ' s health deteriorate , and she be admit into hospital . a couple of week ago we be able to bring she home on end of life care . due to be at court every day we have not be able to spend enough quality time with she ; my main focus have be get justice for Liv . I believe she hold on long enough to hear that that coward have be find guilty . sadly my nan pass away last night . my nine - year - old Liv be the light of our life , our beautiful , sassy , chatty girl who never run out of energy . she be a character , she be my baby , she have amazing quality and know what she want in life . she will never get to make her holy communion , wear that prom dress or have a sweet 16th birthday , walk down the aisle with the man of her dream or become a mother of her own child . all that promise for her future so cruelly take away . now I have to drive to the cemetery to be close to my baby daughter . I sit with she and talk to she tell she I miss her smile , her kiss , her cuddle , her voice . I tell she she will live on in my heart , she will always be with we , my little shadow . we love you endless amount Liv . " let Cheryl ' s word be hear . let they be honour . let Olivia ' s law pass , and make sure that no victim ' s voice be ever shut out of justice again . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] I thank the hon . Lady for share that with we . it be important that the House hear it . I pay tribute to that powerful contribution from the hon . member for Knowsley ( Anneliese Midgley ) . our thought and prayer be with Liv ' s family in the Gallery . I truly welcome the provision of well information for victim of crime . it be essential that victim be at the heart of justice . as Baroness Newlove have say in regard to domestic abuse : " victim and survivor of domestic abuse must be able to trust in our criminal justice system — that it will provide a robust , trauma - inform response that prioritise their safety while hold perpetrator to account . " we must ensure that victim feel not only that they will get justice , but that they can trust the system . we need to restore trust and confidence in our system . I be glad to see that the Bill will bring more victim into the scope of the victim contact scheme . they must be give more information about an offender ' s upcoming release and the discharge of licence condition , and should be notify of key event , such as an offender ' s transfer to an open prison . one of my constituent raise with I the case of a domestic abuse survivor who , along with her unborn child , survive an attempt murder by her ex - partner . although he receive an 18 - year sentence in 2016 , in March this year he be eligible for open prison placement four year early , and that be incredibly distressing . as they often say , perpetrator of domestic abuse know everything about their victim . they know where they live , where they work and where their child go to school . it be terrify for victim to find that perpetrator be potentially be release early ; they can not prepare for that . I want parole board involve in the decision to give an open prison placement to a domestic abuse offender , so that we can ensure that victim ' voice be hear . it be say early that timely access to justice be key , but confidence be , too , and we must be careful about the language we use . we must ensure that all victim trust our legal system , and I fear that some discussion do more harm than good . I begin by thank my right hon . friend the Lord Chancellor for bring forward this much - need legislation , which will change our justice system for the well by strengthen support for victim and hold those who violate our law to account . in my constituency of Heywood and Middleton North , the scar of serious crime and antisocial behaviour and an inundate court system hold back our community . my constituent and people across the country be look for answer to those challenge , rather than the posturing that we see all too frequently in some quarter . this Bill go a long way to provide those answer , and I know that the change will be truly welcome in my constituency . last week , I hold a town hall event focus on crime and antisocial behaviour in Spotland , an area that I be proud to represent and to relay concern from today . I place on record my gratitude to all those who attend , and who give their story , as well as those from Rochdale borough council , Greater Manchester police and Rochdale Boroughwide Housing , who also attend and be question by local resident . we cover a vast array of issue in a constructive and thoughtful manner , and I believe we get to the crux of what keep people in Spotland and across my constituency awake at night : ultimately , it be the safety and security of their family and love one . across our borough , stalk offence , dangerous driving , off - road bike and drug crime have be grow in prominence . in Greater Manchester , our court backlog be some of the large in the country . Most people I speak to at the event be weary after year of cut that reduce the police presence , which be essential , and consistent under - investment in our court . they have see a system that be build to protect they push to the brink and unable to respond effectively to the change nature of crime in our community . despite the challenging nature of what we discuss , I do not come away dishearten . on the contrary , I come away hopeful and determine to take my constituent ' concern forward . community be rarely unresponsive to challenge , or idle in the face of they . in fact , they want to be part of the solution . People in my constituency want to work alongside authority and local leader to make our street safe and to make sure that victim be support and perpetrator face the full force of the law . they want common - sense and consider intervention from Government , like the one before we today . I will touch on one of the Bill ' s provision that will make a real difference to the community I represent . first , the shadow of on - street grooming still hang over family and survivor in my constituency . that be alongside wicked present - day crime perpetrate against child across the country , the cruelty and cowardice of which remain with victim for life . accord to the Centre of Expertise on Child Sexual Abuse , 500 , 000 child will experience some form of child sexual abuse every year in England and Wales . a third of childhood sexual abuse offence be commit in the family environment . we must make sure that child who be exploit or abuse no long remain under the responsibility of a family member capable of commit such vile act . that be why I commend the provision in the Bill to restrict parental responsibility for offender sentence for abuse young child . family must feel that they have a place to turn to when this unimaginable violation befall a love one , and must feel support in law . I wholeheartedly support the step to minimise bureaucracy and limit procedural burden in a way that mitigate the further distress put on family , so that they can begin to rebuild what the perpetrator have shatter . I also support other measure in the Bill , include the provision that mandate perpetrator to attend their sentencing hearing or face further penalty . as we know , crime do not exist only at a single point in time ; its implication live on for victim , sometimes forever . neither be it faceless . behind each criminal act be a perpetrator who should face the consequence of their decision . they should be make to look at the damage they have do to a person ' s life , and to hear the verdict on their crime . the Bill give victim agency — Order . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Knowsley ( Anneliese Midgley ) for her incredible speech , to Olivia ' s family , and to the Government for listen to their call and include that provision in the Bill . I want to talk a little more about provision for victim , and in particular my court transcript campaign ; the Minister know this be come . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) for his generous tribute on that point . I be really disappointed that there be no mention of court transcript in the Bill . trial be lengthy and traumatising experience , which victim do not routinely attend ; some be actively advise against do so . review the sentencing remark can help provide victim and survivor with clarity and closure , but too often access those sentencing remark be unaffordable , which only add more barrier to achieve justice . that be why throughout the last Parliament I campaign on provide victim and survivor with free access to copy of their transcript . I be glad that my open letter to the then Justice Secretary receive support from the then Mother and Father of the House , as well as the former Chair of the Justice Committee . I be glad to have cross - party signatory to my amendment to the Victims and Prisoners Bill in the last Parliament , which , if accept , would have enable all victim to receive a transcript of both the sentencing remark and the judge ' s sum up free of charge . despite broad support , the amendment be ultimately unsuccessful both in this House and in the other place , where a similar amendment be table by my colleague Baroness Brinton and block by 187 Tory peer . give the previous Government ' s refusal to address this gross inequality and their inexplicable opposition to this policy , let down victim and survivor , I have be interested in the Conservatives ' change of heart . I notice the shadow Justice Secretary ' s recent support for transcript , and the right hon . member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) raise the issue of the accessibility of court transcript with the Justice Secretary last month . I be glad to see indication that they may be finally acknowledge the extent to which the last government fail victim . follow my campaigning on this issue , and the invaluable work of campaign group work to support victim , I be glad that a 12 - month pilot scheme be introduce in May last year . the scheme give victim of sexual assault and rape access to court transcript of their trial at no cost to they . victim and survivor who have make use of the pilot have report that its impact have be transformational , yet to my recent question on the issue , the Minister respond : " we be currently assess the pilot ' s uptake and impact and will be able to say more on our plan for future provision in due course . " as I be sure the Minister be aware , last week I introduce a Bill to the House that call for the rape and sexual offence free sentencing remark pilot scheme to be make permanent . my recent early - day motion on this issue , which call for the scheme to be expand to cover all victim of crime , have also receive cross - party support . if the government do not make the scheme permanent , not only will they fail victim , but they will be not uphold the commitment in the King ' s Speech last year to strengthen support for victim . I have hear directly from constituent who have access their transcript , have not attend their trial , as well as from member of the public from across the country who have be through similar experience . they have tell I of the hugely positive impact that access a court transcript have have on they and their journey . with just eight day until the scheme be due to end , and give that I still await a response to the letter that I and my hon . friend the Member for Eastbourne send to the Justice Secretary on the issue , will the Minister outline the future plan for the scheme ? I urge she to make support for victim permanent . I also ask the Ministry to make clear its basis for discontinue the pilot scheme . I welcome so many measure in the Bill , and I really welcome its additional support for victim . I really hope that as the Bill continue through the House , we can amend it to extend the pilot scheme and make it permanent . I declare an interest as a member of the Women and Equalities Committee . rape survivor be too often hide in plain sight . in Bolsover , my constituency , 10 , 554 woman will have be rape or sexually assault since they be 16 — a third in their own home — in Shirebrook , Tibshelf , Wessington , Barlborough and every village and town in between , and 5 , 277 of they will have be rape more than once ; 880 will have report it , and if we be lucky , 26 will have see a charge bring . I have permission to share the experience of one of the wonderful constituent who reach out to I . she say , " I be spiked in a hotel and sexually assault in my room where I think I would be safe . " as a result , she say , " I lose my job , my marriage nearly crumble and I lose six of my son ' s most formative year because my brain shut down completely … and I go into survival mode . " she continue : " we need to raise our boy well , to respect and work alongside woman without judgement or expectation around sex " . she be right , but this be not just a Bolsover problem ; this be a society issue . rape be a part of our national story — a part that we be not tell — and we can not continue with a culture where he do it and she hide it . woman do not report because they have be let down by the court for too long . that be the case for another of my constituent , who go four year and five month from rape to trial , with multiple suicide attempt . I be so pleased that this Government be do something about this , and be treat violence against woman and girl as the national emergency that it be . the measure in this Bill mean that victim of crime will finally be put first . the Bill be also our opportunity to put a full stop to a lifetime of ongoing trauma . I will keep speak about the 10 baby bear every day to their mummy who have be rape — six child in my constituency every year , and in every constituency across England and Wales . we see those child hide in plain sight on our school visit ; we see they as adult in the workplace ; they drink among we in the pub . but their brave mother have hide the story behind their existence throughout history — often even from they . the mum tell I about the struggle to bond with a baby who look like the man who hurt they . they tell I about the pain of love their child and also wish that they do not exist . they tell I about live with the threat of their rapist be part of their life forever . one survivor say that she could not report the crime because the perpetrator have parental responsibility , and tell she that he would use it if she report it . be charge , go to prison — nothing would take away his right around the child who be conceive when he rape she . this Bill be our opportunity to change that . I call on our Government to remove parental responsibility where a child be conceive via rape . our precious child can no long be the only proceed of crime to which a criminal have lifelong access . it be a privilege , as a Member of Parliament , to support our constituent in their hour of great need . all too often , that be when they be a victim of an appalling crime . many of the constituent I speak to are at their wit ' end ; they be desperate to be hear , help and protect . they rightly want their tormentor to be make to stop , and they want justice . many of the step take in the Bill will be welcome on both side of the House and by victim across our country . it be right , for example , that we restrict convict sex offender ' access to their child , and it be right that we give victim more information about their offender ' release . however , the call for justice for the victim of grooming and rape gang grow only louder . across this country , people be rightly horrify by these crime and the subsequent cover - up , which represent the big national scandal in our history , yet the Government have fail to use this opportunity to deliver real justice for those victim and survivor . last month , I speak in this place of the detail of just some of these disgusting crime . I be able to so because of the organisation Open Justice for all , which have purchase , redact and publish transcript from some of these court case . however , it have be refuse permission to do that in several instance , because a judge have claim that there " no public interest " in do so . this be wrong . of course we must make sure that the anonymity of victim be protect , but nobody be suggest do anything to compromise that . these be public trial hold in open court , and at the moment the transcript represent the only way to get to the truth of these revolt crime that have be carry out across Britain for far too long . be not the answer , in part at least , a national statutory inquiry into what occur , not least because we do not actually know whether it be still go on ? that inquiry would expose so much , which would allow all those right - think people to take the action necessary and protect so many of the people who might be at risk from further horror . I can only agree with my right hon . friend . it be appal that such transcript be currently the only way to understand what have happen in these case . relatedly , as my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) have previously say : " these aren ' t just legal document , they ' re historical document that tell the story in detail of some of the bad crime in our recent history " . this Bill acknowledge that transparent information about our justice system be in the interest of victim , but it do nothing to address the problem . what be more , due to the current limit on appeal against unduly lenient sentence , many victim of these horrific grooming and rape gang will be deny a vital opportunity to seek real justice . in far too many of these case , we have see court hand down lenient sentence . for far too many victim , there will be no redress and their abuser will walk free . often after just a few short year , these monster be back in the community they come from , walk among we and walk among their victim . just last week , the Court of Appeal revisit the case of three man who be convict of rape a teenage girl in Yorkshire . ibrar Hussain and brother Imtiaz and Fayaz Ahmed be convict in January for commit unspeakably evil crime against a 13 - year - old girl . in the first instance , they each receive sentence of less than 10 year . as my right hon . friend the Member for Newark mention , he and my hon . friend the Member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) refer this case to the Attorney General . in this instance , the court rightly rule that these sentence be far too short . this Bill should have make it easy for victim to seek such redress . it do not . this Government have announce specific support for five local inquiry and be get on with the implementation of the recommendation of the Jay report . would the hon . member like to comment on what the previous Government do on this subject ? I thank the hon . member for her intervention . there be several point that I would like to make in response . first , five local inquiry be nothing like enough . these event take place in 50 town and all the victim deserve justice . secondly , there be trend across the country and only a national inquiry can get to the bottom of those . thirdly , she mention the Jay inquiry . inquiry be very often specific . the Hillsborough inquiry do not investigate every football match . the infected blood inquiry do not look at the whole of the NHS . the Manchester Arena inquiry do not address every terrorist attack . there have be an inquiry into child sex abuse , but that be not a specific inquiry into the specific phenomenon of group of mostly asian muslim man groom and sexually torture mainly white child , facilitate and cover up by those in the british state whose job it be to look after they . that be a specific phenomenon , a particular stain on our country , and it deserve a dedicated inquiry . will the hon . Lady give way ? I be come to the end of my speech . I be sure that the Lord Chancellor and the Minister want fairness for victim , so will they please amend the Bill , first , to offer the independent national inquiry into grooming and rape gang that the country and victim need ; secondly , to ensure that all such transcript , appropriately redact , be make available to the public ; and , thirdly , to allow victim great ability to appeal against the shockingly short sentence that we see all too often ? I pay tribute to liv ' s family and to Cheryl for her powerful statement . I want to focus on the victim of state violence and the fact that they be miss from the Bill . I want to remember the 97 victim who perish at Hillsborough , and their family who have be through so much and fight for justice for so long . I also want we to remember our Government ' s commitment to those family to bring in the long - overdue legal duty of candour on public official , otherwise know as the Hillsborough law . the Bill as it stand be a major miss opportunity to make good on that promise and finally deliver justice for the 97 . we have fail to meet our own self - impose deadline for this year ' s 36th anniversary — a painful moment for Liverpool make yet more painful by broken promise and the threat that this commitment may be water down when it be eventually bring forward . the core of the Hillsborough law be straightforward : a statutory duty of candour on all public body and official . that mean that when incident occur , those in power must proactively tell the truth , share all relevant information and co - operate fully with investigation and inquiry . there can be no more defensive pr operation , no more smear campaign against victim , and no more family force to battle the system for decade just to have their love one ' name clear . without a full Hillsborough law , the cycle of cover - up will continue . from Grenfell to the infected blood scandal , we have see time and again that institution act to protect themselves as a priority , leave ordinary people to pay the price . this Bill be an unmissable opportunity for the Government to make good on their promise . I hope the Minister will listen to the strength of feeling and bring back a Government amendment that implement a full legal duty of candour on public official . I also want to take the opportunity to raise the important inquest campaign for a national oversight mechanism , which be back by 70 organisation . it be the subject of a private Member ' s Bill promote by the hon . member for Bristol Central ( Carla Denyer ) , which be make its way through this place . public and private body have a duty to keep we safe from harm , but every year hundred of people die preventable state - relate death . the lack of any mechanism for learn from past tragedy be a huge part of that . when someone die after contact with the state , hundred of vital recommendation be make follow inquest and inquiry . that include death of people in police and prison custody and in mental health setting , and follow disaster at Grenfell and Hillsborough . these family need transparency , accountability and action so that change be make to prevent future death in similar preventable circumstance . introduce a mechanism would be a watershed moment for family bereave at the hand of the state , and it would be unforgivable for we to miss the opportunity that the Bill present to bring forward such a mechanism . when it come to victim of the state and public body , the detail in the Bill be severely lacking . I hope the Minister will listen to the point I have raise and come back with some Government amendment to improve accountability and oversight mechanism to ensure justice for all in tragedy at the hand of the state . I welcome the Bill as an important first step towards a more accountable criminal justice system — one that reflect the need and voice of survivor of crime . too often , victim have be let down by a system that fail to grasp their trauma and recognise their experience . they be expect to navigate an underfunded and overstretched justice process that all too frequently delay or even deny justice . I sincerely hope that the Bill be just the beginning of a wide governmental approach to fix the crisis in the criminal justice system , include the court backlog and the mess leave behind by the previous Government . liberal Democrats support the creation of a specific domestic abuse aggravate offence , and I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) for his tireless work on the issue . in February , two man from Hampshire be release as part of the early release scheme , even though they have both be convict of domestic abuse . the former partner of those man say that they be terrify and feel unable to regain control of their life . one of the victim say : " he get three year , I get life . " the law should be change to reflect the full impact of domestic abuse on its victim . I recently meet a constituent whose ex - husband be convict of sexual communication with a child but be permit to change his name . even though the Crime and Policing Bill will require registered sex offender to notify police and seek permission before change their name , serious risk remain . my constituent ' s case highlight how sex offender can conceal their identity by change their name . that be raise in the last Parliament by the hon . member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) . will the Government take action to protect victim and survivor from that loophole allow register sex offender to change their name to avoid detection ? I be glad that the Government be take step to support victim and survivor of crime . I hope that more will be do to ensure that the criminal justice system truly protect the most vulnerable and deliver accessible and fair justice that be centre on the need of those it be mean to serve . may I also pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Knowsley ( Anneliese Midgley ) and to Olivia ' s family for their powerful campaign ? the Bill seek to challenge the power imbalance that have long exist in our justice system between perpetrator and their victim — for too long , offender have have the upper hand . I be proud that this Bill and this Government will finally put victim first . the Bill will strengthen our court , reinforce the core principle of our justice system and provide great protection for the victim of crime . it will grant our court the power to order offender to attend their sentencing hearing , use reasonable force if necessary , and to extend sentence and impose sanction in prison for the coward who refuse to face up to what they have do . once and for all , our justice system will ensure that those who commit crime be hold fully accountable for their action . the Bill will strengthen the role of the Victims ' Commissioner in monitoring and report on compliance with the victim code . in do so , it will drive meaningful and lasting change to ensure that victim ' right be not only recognise but firmly upheld . at its core , the Bill be about shift the balance of power , move it away from offender and place it in the hand of survivor . it be about safeguard the right of every person across the country . the shadow Justice Secretary , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , be no long in his place , but he say that he want transparency . well , let we give he some transparency on the previous Government ' s record on justice for victim . ten month ago , this Government inherit a justice system in crisis , because the last Conservative Government leave prison on the brink of collapse , a backlog in our court and a system that fail victim up and down this country . we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Bolsover ( Natalie Fleet ) about how few people report rape in the first place , but shockingly , 60 % of those who do report it drop out of the criminal justice system before get to trial and be often retraumatise by the system . it be a shame that the shadow Justice Secretary be too busy — perhaps with his leadership bid — to hear what I be about to say : justice under the conservative party mean more offender escape justice and few victim receive it . [ interruption . ] the Conservatives do not like to hear it , but that be their record in government . as many member across the House will know , we be face an alarming rise in domestic abuse . sadly , in Gloucester we be all too aware of the scale of that crisis . in December last year alone , nearly 250 arrest relate to domestic abuse be make . give how desperate and widespread that issue be , I be proud that the measure in the Bill will help to deliver justice for the one in four woman and one in seven man who have experience domestic abuse , and for the constituent I represent , who need and deserve that justice . have speak in my constituency surgery to survivor and victim of domestic abuse , I welcome in particular the change that the Government be make to ensure that victim receive information and support , particularly about their offender ' s release . I hope that that will be part of wide reform of the parole and tagging system , which have lead to far too many of my constituent be let down in the past . I be inspire by the pace and ambition with which the Government be deliver on their ambition to tackle and halve violence against woman and girl . on the off - chance that the Government might welcome more idea on how we can well support victim , I invite my hon . friend the Minister to back my Domestic Abuse ( Safe Leave ) Bill , which aim , like this Bill , to place power in the hand of survivor and support they as they seek justice and rebuild their life . this Bill bring we a step close to halve violence against woman and girl and deliver the transformative plan for change that our country and my constituent so urgently need . I look forward to vote to give the Bill its second Reading . I , too , pay tribute to the hon . member for Knowsley ( Anneliese Midgley ) for speak so movingly about Olivia and her family . I rise primarily to speak about the victim - centre measure in the Bill and would like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister for her engagement with I on this matter and with my constituent Rhianon Bragg , a formidable activist who have do so much work to improve support and service for victim . the expand victim contact scheme should see more victim able to get adequate information about their offender ’ sentence and make representation about licence condition or supervision requirement as they relate to they . similarly , the victim helpline will give more victim the information they need . I truly welcome those measure , which the UK Government say will cost an extra £ 0 . 2 million for HM Prison and Probation Service each year , with update the victim contact scheme cost £ 20 , 000 and the victim helpline cost between £ 100 , 000 and £ 200 , 000 . I be concern about whether those costing will be sufficient . as co - chair of the justice union parliamentary group , I call on the Government to commit to deliver the additional resource necessary for the Probation Service to deal with the inevitable increase in demand , both initially and as victim become more aware that they have these right . there be a risk of overextend a service that be already in a workload and staffing crisis , at the expense of victim . extend the power of the Victims ' Commissioner be also welcome . victim should always feel secure that the commissioner can and will do everything in their power to tackle shortcoming where the victim live . that be why I continue my call for a victim ' commissioner for Wales , to represent victim of crime in the specific context of Wales , where many victim support service and important policy lever , such as those relate to health and social care , be devolve and hold to account by the Senedd . at this point I will mention another aspect of the Bill : the Crown prosecution recruitment . we need personnel in the criminal justice system in Wales who can operate in Welsh and English , so I call on the Government to seek such personnel . of course , devolve the entire criminal justice system in Wales , as recommend by three independent commission , would be the good way to ensure a well - focus approach to victim support . in the meantime , a victim ' commissioner for Wales would ensure that the particular voice and experience of victim in Wales be properly represent . we need only look to the fantastic work do by the London Victims ' Commissioner , Claire Waxman , to see what be possible when we have a focused approach . the Victims and Courts Bill be a good basis on which to build . there be way in which it could go far to well support victim , particularly in Wales , and I look forward to see how it develop with amendment in Committee . give the time limit , I first want to say a huge thank you to the Victims Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , and to the Solicitor General , who be ably support by our amazing female team at the Home Office . I will not go through everything that be fantastic about the Bill , which be a once - in - a - generation opportunity to improve thing for victim . I just want to suggest three way in which it could be an even well Bill , as my hon . friend the Minister be always open to suggestion . the first be the unfair use of so - call bad character evidence , which allow the cross - examination of rape victim - survivor about their previous sexual assault . this have nothing to do with the court case in front of they ; it be about victim blame , intimidate the victim and make the victim afraid to go to court . it would improve the Bill if we do not allow so - call bad character evidence to be use in these proceeding . secondly , we need to recognise , as be in law , that victim of domestic abuse be often victim of coercive control . that can include thing like take out loan in their name , but in extreme case it can be about coerce they to break the law . we need a way for court to recognise when a victim of domestic abuse have be coerce into commit a crime as part of that domestic abuse , so that the crime be treat as such and see as part of the ongoing abuse . thirdly , I have be campaign on the issue of person at risk of violence order . when somebody leave a domestic abuse situation , they often leave with a lot of debt . in order to keep their address hide from the perpetrator , they must obtain a person at risk of violence order , involve not only another retraumatise court process but an additional £ 308 that they must find every time they move . despite the fact that there may be an active court case or the perpetrator may have be arrest , victim have to independently prove that they be a person at risk of violence . this Bill be all about ensure that victim can get justice . part of get justice be be able to leave abusive situation and be protect while they do that . my three suggestion would help to strengthen the Bill and increase the confidence of victim - survivor in justice . imagine a school night with a child be repeatedly ask by his father if he have complete his homework . the child reply , in an exasperate tone , " yes " . his dad come towards he with his fist , ready to punch he , but the boy ' s mum step into the space in front of that fist and push her son out of its way . the full force of that fist hit she so hard that she be spin around and fall down the stair , bruise her arm , leg and back . from the top of the stair , the child ' s father shout to his son , " look what you make I do . " the boy ' s mother leave her husband , take the child with she . social service be aware that the same father make statement that he be capable of kill . then imagine a situation where , despite know all of that , a family court permit that father of those two boy five hour of unsupervised contact per week . my constituent Claire Throssell do not need to imagine this nightmare : she and her two son , Jack and Paul Sykes , live it . on a two - hour contact visit , permit by that court and allow to go ahead by the Children and Family Court Advisory and Support Service , Jack and Paul Sykes be lock in the attic by their father . use gasoline , their dad set multiple fire alight across their home . Paul , aged nine , die at the scene after his old brother try to save he , and then Jack , age just 12 , die later in hospital . the father also kill himself in the blaze . Jack and Paul ' s voice be not hear by social service , by CAFCASS or by the family court . the only time Jack ' s voice be hear be when , as he be hold in the fireman ' s arm , he use the last of his strength to say , " my dad do this and he do it on purpose . " there must be urgent reform of the presumption of contact in law , on the basis of evidence , principle and to ensure child ' s voice be put at the heart of our family court system . legal principle mean that parent should always be give contact with their child , even in circumstance where there be a know domestic abuser . the harm report , publish in 2020 by the Ministry of Justice ' s expert panel on harm , be clear that the presumption should not remain in its present form . the Bill before we today present the ideal opportunity to make change to the family court and to deliver for the victim of domestic abuse and violence against woman and girl . it already ensure that the justice system serve victim , rather than subject they to further trauma on top of what they have already suffer . labour ' s important mission to halve violence against woman and girl within a decade will require a national effort and the use of every single tool available to target perpetrator and address the root cause of abuse and violence . now we need to do what the previous Conservative Government fail to do and hold family court to the same standard by take a child - centre approach and repeal the presumption of contact where a parent be a know domestic abuser . the Government must act now to save the life of child for generation to come by end contact at any cost . let we not just imagine a world in which the voice of child be put at the heart of our family court system , where child such as Jack and Paul be listen to , not ignore , and no more town such as mine be leave to grieve — order . the hon . Lady must recognise that there be a time limit so that member can get in . Ilford South have be collectively traumatise by sexual violence and domestic abuse . together , we have mourn the murder of Harshita Brella and Zara Aleena . together , we be horrify at the case of physical and sexual violence that woman and girl face every day , many of which go unreported . that be why the Victims and Courts Bill before we today be so desperately need , because it promise to help we bring justice and empower victim - survivor . I thank all those who have make the Bill possible , especially the victim - survivor whose voice give it power and make it real . although their work have be indispensable , I know that it must never fall on the shoulder of survivor alone to drive policy change . we must all come together to share the burden of fix the violence that be so deeply embed in our society . that be why I feel it be so incumbent on I as a male member to engage with this Bill and see it through . sexual violence and domestic abuse be man ' s issue as much as they be woman ' s issue . if I may speak candidly , my conversation with survivor in my work as London Councils ' lead on community safety and violence against woman and girl have teach I that victim - survivor be often doubly traumatised — they be first traumatise by the experience of their abuse , then retraumatise by a justice system that be opaque , difficult to navigate and , quite frankly , not build for they . there be a third trauma when a sentence that emanate from the court be unduly lenient . as the hon . Gentleman will know , the Attorney General have the power to review unduly lenient sentence , but only within 28 day of the date of a sentence . will the hon . Gentleman join I in call for the length of time to be extend , in the name of victim ? certainly , as somebody who stand for justice , I will always support anything that would make it strong . I welcome this Bill as a start to address the injustice that survivor face and a vital step in achieve our plan to halve violence against woman and girl in a decade . through the update victim contact scheme and the new victim helpline , this Bill simplify one aspect of the justice system that survivor must navigate . this single , harmonised scheme mean that victim - survivor will have a clear route to request information about an offender ' s release , should they want it , empower those survivor . another welcome aspect of the Bill be the automatic restriction of parental responsibility for perpetrator of child sexual offence . sexual violence against child be particularly vile and traumatise for family and survivor alike , with survivor take an average of 22 year before they feel able to disclose their abuse . this Bill will prevent perpetrator from involvement in a child ' s life , safeguard child from further trauma and enable they to start healing . the hon . Member be talk about the length of time it can take for victim of sexual violence to get over their trauma and seek help . do he agree that organisation such as Rape Crisis do absolutely vital work in help survivor of sexual abuse and rape to move past what have happen ? do he also agree that it would be a fantastic improvement to the Bill if there be some national Government oversight of how much money be put into funding such victim service ? certainly , come from a local council that be strapped for cash , I agree with the hon . member ' s emphasis ; we must look at that as we go forward . the Bill will prevent perpetrator from be involve in a child ' s life , safeguard child from further trauma and enable they to start healing . this new restriction be shamefully overdue . our current system be not build for survivor ; it be full of gap and loophole for predator , reflect society ' s bias and be perilously hard to navigate . to truly centre survivor , the Bill should go far . the automatic restriction of parental responsibility should be extend so that if an individual abuse any child , not just their own , their parental right be automatically remove . that would far safeguard child , save family the vast personal and emotional cost of navigate the family court system and ultimately prevent the retraumatisation of survivor and their family . I welcome the Government ' s action to begin build a justice system that finally centre survivor , rather than treat they like an afterthought , and I hope this Bill will empower those who have not be properly protect for so long . however , as we know , there be still so much far to go and so many more battle remain to be fight in order to prevent sexual violence and empower victim - survivor — online , in our school , in our home and on our street . this Bill be a desperately need first step , but it must be the beginning of our campaign to get justice for victim - survivor , not the end . I also pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Knowsley ( Anneliese Midgley ) , and to Cheryl and her family for their fight for justice . have work with both adult and child victim of traumatic abuse , I be glad to stand last year on a manifesto that commit to reform the system to put the need of victim first , and to ensure they get the support they need and deserve . this Bill be part of that mission . I be pleased that it strengthen victim ' right , force offender to attend sentencing hearing , and empower the Victims ' commissioner to do more to stand up for victim and hold public body to account where there be failing . nevertheless , there be three area in which I believe we should go far and fast . first , we know that victim of domestic abuse and sexual violence be face with a postcode lottery when it come to access specialist support . they be leave at the mercy of the various budgetary decision make by each area ' s police and crime commissioner , local authority and health body . what do my hon . friend say to a police and crime commissioner , such as the one for Thames valley , who do not fund sexual abuse support service in Milton Keynes ? I believe that all police and crime commissioner ought to fund those service — hopefully the Minister can respond to that point . it be clearly outrageous that any victim of sexual violence should be leave without any service at all . where specialist domestic abuse service do exist , they be face with a deeply precarious financial situation that be severely hamper the ability of victim to access the support they need . few than half of victim and survivor be able to access the community - base support they want . without that support , some victim may be unable to leave domestic abuse perpetrator , or may return to they when they find it too difficult to escape their control behaviour . in 2022 , only 7 % of victim who want their perpetrator to receive support to change their behaviour and stop reoffende be able to get that , and recent research undertake by the Domestic Abuse Commissioner have find that 27 % of service be have to turn away child victim from vital support due to a lack of capacity . for those reason , I believe this legislation need to include a statutory duty to commission specialist domestic abuse and sexual violence service base in the community for both adult and child victim . it be a stain on our nation that victim of the most unimaginable trauma do not have a right to support after abuse . a new statutory duty would also allow we to create parity with the accommodation - base service that be introduce by the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 , so that community - base service be give the same legislative protection . secondly , I believe that the parent and carer of victim of serious sexual and violent crime also require support as third - party victim . a campaign on this issue have be lead by Cath Pickles , the chief executive officer of Restitute , an amazing local charity that support third - party victim . these crime fracture family and support network , and those who be leave to care for primary victim often develop their own mental health issue and may even have to give up work . there be mother who must face pick up the piece after the sexual abuse of their child , and family who have to support domestic abuse victim as they fight for justice . we should look to include they in the scope of the support available to victim , because the impact of abuse do not just harm the primary victim , but can destroy the victim ' s family too . finally , I recognise that we must not risk a very welcome step forward with potential legal challenge , but I believe we ought to look again have at a strict definition for the purpose of deprive people of parental responsibility , especially where there be a risk to the child . many will simply not comprehend how the serious sexual abuse of a child be compatible with the right to family life . what about the child ' s right to live a life free from harm ? I hope that the Government be willing to work with I , and with other , to tighten that aspect , among other that I have mention , as the Bill progress through the House . I declare an interest , as a member of the Women and Equalities Committee . today mark a defining moment — a moment when we finally put victim at the heart of our justice system . for countless people in Bolton , that moment be long overdue . I be proud to support the Bill : proud because it empower judge to compel offender to attend their sentencing so that no victim be leave speak into a void ; proud because it finally — finally ! — remove parental right from child sex offender , something that I can hardly believe we be do only now , in 2025 ; proud because it give real power to the Victims ' commissioner to demand answer , scrutinise the system and drive change ; and proud because it will speed up justice and tear down needless barrier . survivor deserve a system that work for they , not against they . from conversation on doorstep and from constituency surgery , I know that far too many of my constituent have experience domestic abuse and coercive control . that be why I have be work with those at Bolton ' s frontline organisation , include Fortalice and Endeavour , who understand what be at stake and the difference that the Bill will make . Fortalice provide refuge and support for domestic abuse survivor . its chief executive , Gill Smallwood , tell I that it have receive more than 400 referral since January alone , and that the Bill would finally deliver the change that victim need . Gill tell I that , right now , victim be leave in the dark about bail condition or release date . the Bill will change that : it will allow victim , finally , to be keep inform by enable they to nominate a trust professional to receive update , and to access information through a dedicated helpline . endeavour , another local charity , support high - risk young people , black and minoritised survivor , and old victim . its chief executive , Jill Caldwell , tell I of a woman who have have to flee her home , job and support network , simply because she have not be tell that her abuser have be release . the Bill would have prevent that . by guarantee victim the right to up - to - date information , we be end uncertainty and remove the burden on victim to constantly chase , ask , call and email for update . we be say , " you deserve to know ; you deserve to be safe ; you deserve to be hear and to be reassure at a time of complete uncertainty , when you have already endure so much . " the Bill be ambitious , but my constituent in Bolton need it to go far . right now , 82 % of domestic abuse victim never report the abuse , not because nothing happen but because they fear they will not be believe , and for those who do , the courtroom can become a second site of trauma . time and again , constituent have tell I about the misuse of " bad character " evidence , when a survivor ' s past be wilfully distort to discredit that person . that be not justice ; it be re - victimisation . the Bill must change evidence standard so that no survivor ' s trauma be ever twist into testimony against they . the Bill also give we a long overdue chance to fix the way in which domestic abuse be handle in the family court system . I urge the ministerial team to go far , and to strengthen protection for the child of abuser . survivor in my constituency be still force into contact with abuser who intentionally exploit the legal process to maintain control . we know that the family court system be not build to withstand this kind of manipulation , and that abuser have learn exactly how to weaponise that — and win . the Children and Family Court Advisory and Support Service — CAFCASS — rely on outdated , prejudiced view of what a family should look like , prioritise contact with both parent even when one have a proven history of domestic abuse . this antiquated policy prioritise the family unit over the child ' s good interest , even when the cost be the child ' s trust , stability and wellbeing , so the Bill must go far . finally , the Bill can end a quiet injustice : the punishing of woman simply for survive abuse . I be proud that this Labour Government be put power back into the hand of victim , and I fully support the Bill . may I first pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Knowsley ( Anneliese Midgley ) , the family of victim across this country who be here listen to we today , and the victim who be seek justice through this Bill ? I also pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Bolsover ( Natalie Fleet ) for her strong articulation of concern about rape and domestic abuse , and my hon . friend the Member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Dr Tidball ) for her very strong speech . there have be some extremely passionate speech today , with constituent ' view at their heart . as a former police officer , I have see the criminal justice system from both side , and I can tell the House that it have fall short in recent year — not just in prosecute crime , but in support those who be most harm by it . we have hear similar testimony today . this Bill be an important and necessary step towards restore the principle that justice be not just about punish offender , important though that be . it be also about stand up for the most important part : victim . as I have say in Westminster Hall debate , justice delay be justice deny . give the previous Government ' s record with regard to policing cut , soar court waiting time , the mismanagement of probation service and our prison be leave full , I be afraid the inheritance be dire , but this Government be try to correct those mistake . I will cover just three point , because I be conscious that other colleague wish to speak . on victim ' right , it be absolutely correct that we should have reasonable way of get a perpetrator into a courtroom , but the Bill need to go far ; I would support audiovisual recording of such thing . we do that for the Supreme Court , where people be able to see sentencing . with victim ' consent , justice for high - profile case should be in the public domain . I urge the Government to go far by allow the rest of society to see justice be serve , as I think we be now reach that point in our technological development . I welcome the fact that the Bill grant victim a statutory right — not just a courtesy — to be keep inform and to have their voice hear during critical stage of the process . I also support grant enhance power to the Victims ' Commissioner . as someone who work as a police officer , I know that antisocial behaviour , from nuisance biking to graffiti and persistent noise , be a major problem in many community across the country . the Victims ' Commissioner will have the power to stand up to local council and other body of authority on behalf of people who have less of a voice in society . I welcome that measure , because I believe that victim of antisocial behaviour should be treat the same as any other victim of crime . I welcome the time limit for sentencing review , which the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) mention . he will be aware that the Bill extend those limit ; if a review be receive in the last 14 day of the exist 28 - day period , there will be an additional 14 day to act . could the Bill go far ? of course it could , but this be a welcome step none the less . lastly , I will discuss the court backlog and the impact on community , which I have raise in Westminster Hall debate . I welcome the power in the Bill to improve sentence power for six offence , include unlawful subletting , breach of restrain order and violation of criminal behaviour order . we need to get the magistrate to step in and work with that . in short , there be a lot in this Bill that we should support . I encourage colleague to vote for it today . this Government be elect on a promise to deliver a justice system that put the need of victim first . I stand in my constituency to support our police to tackle crime , take back control of our town centre and crack down on antisocial behaviour . today ' s Bill , alongside the other landmark legislation introduce by this government that I have vote for in this House , offer further progress on deliver on that mission for people in Mansfield . there be three part of the Bill that I would like to highlight ; they will be particularly welcome in my constituency . first of all , there be the strengthening of the power of the Victims ' Commissioner . under previous government , victim have too often be let down when navigate the criminal justice system , which have make they feel like an afterthought . it be encouraging to see victim at the centre of the Bill , which have be welcome by victim ' organisation and charity . they recognise the legislation ' s potential to make a meaningful difference . secondly , the Bill introduce the ability for judge to hand down sanction to offender who refuse to attend hearing , include a restriction on social visit and a long sentence . there be numerous example of murderer refuse to attend sentencing hearing , and that have lead to recognition that we need to clarify the court ' power to compel attendance . we know that for some victim , the presence of the offender in court be extremely important for closure and resolution . I welcome the fact that the Bill will force criminal to understand and face up to the consequence of their crime . at the risk of be repetitive , will the hon . Gentleman press , as I have do — I think the hon . member for Ilford South ( Jas Athwal ) agree with I — for lenient sentence to be deal with more severely ? that is , the Attorney General should have extra time to review those sentence . there be nothing bad for a victim than see the perpetrator of the crime give an unduly lenient sentence . the right hon . Gentleman make a very important and salient point , and I thank he for raise it . thirdly , the Bill will place a duty on local authority and social housing provider to co - operate with the Victims ' Commissioner on antisocial behaviour . I have speak many time in Parliament about the need to do more to support the victim of antisocial behaviour in my constituency . member will all know from their casework inbox that antisocial behaviour be not always a criminal justice matter , and that other agency , such as local authority and social housing provider , play an essential part in support victim . I therefore wholeheartedly welcome the fact that the Bill will empower the Victims ' commissioner to get the information need to identify systemic issue , make informed recommendation and scrutinise how the system as a whole respond to that type of behaviour . in conclusion , the Bill will ensure that the criminal justice system serve victim . the previous Government allow the prison system to reach the point of collapse , and all too often , victim pay the price . by contrast , Labour be fix that mess and reform the social justice system . today I will vote for this landmark legislation , because I know that its measure will be welcome back home in my Mansfield constituency . every day , we member hear from our constituent that victim of crime have be sideline , and leave to navigate a system that often feel indifferent to their suffering . my decision about what to raise in today ' s debate stem from a conversation I have in my constituency surgery a few week ago with a constituent who have ask to remain anonymous . my constituent tell I of an abusive relationship that she be in , which result in the birth of a child . my constituent end up in court in a custody battle over her child . in the trial , she be accuse of refuse the father contact . she tell I how that horrific experience make her feel . she feel that the court system be use as a form of abuse by her former partner . her claim against he be dismiss as be her word against his , and she ask I to look again at parental right in the context of abusive relationship . I also hear about a constituent — who , again , ask to remain anonymous — who have be beat by their partner , who then gain full custody of their child . these be just two of hundred of similar story that I have hear , thousand of similar story that my constituent could tell , and million of similar story that woman and girl — and , indeed , man and boy — around the country could communicate to we . we be look again at these law today . under the Bill , court will be use to empower victim , alleged perpetrator will be require to attend court hearing , the victim contact scheme will help victim to navigate the legal system and will have a dedicated helpline , and automatic parental right will be restrict in case of child sexual abuse , exactly as they should be . the Bill also include measure to address antisocial behaviour , a subject on which I have receive lot of representation from constituent , as I be sure colleague from across the House will have do . at my constituency surgery on Saturday morning , an individual talk I through the horrific death threat that he have be receive daily from his neighbour , who spend hour a day scream through the wall of their semi - detach home at my constituent and his family . this behaviour leave my constituent afraid to leave his home . under current regulation , ultimately nothing be do , and this behaviour begin to let up only when the neighbour decide to move away of their own volition . that be not good enough . when the system fail , it be the victim who suffer first and who suffer the most . they deserve well , and this Bill be a critical part of that well future . today , let we send a message that the day of delay , denial and degradation be over , and that from now on , our justice system will put victim first . it be a privilege to rise in support of the Government ' s Victims and Courts Bill , an important and overdue piece of legislation that put victim where they should always be : at the heart of our criminal justice system . for too long , victim in town such as Horwich , Westhoughton and Bolton in my constituency have be treat as bystander — forget once the police investigation end , let down by poor communication and deny a voice in the system that should be shape to uphold their right . I be pleased that the Bill will go some way to fix those issue . indeed , the Bill will give the Victims ' commissioner tool to well hold the system to account and stand up for victim , and therefore to deliver on this party ' s manifesto commitment make at last year ' s general election . in particular , I welcome the Lord Chancellor ' s remark on new power for judge to compel offender to attend their sentencing hearing . too many family have watch in disbelief as those convict of the most appalling crime refuse to face the consequence of their action in court . this legislation be about uphold dignity in the courtroom and give victim the right to see justice do . crucially , the Bill will also help to tackle the interminable delay and appal inequality of access to justice leave by the Conservatives , after 14 year in power , for this Labour Government to sort out . it will remove legislative barrier that prevent qualified practitioner from be appoint Crown prosecutor , thereby make our system more efficient , flexible and , crucially , diverse . it will empower the CPS to recruit from a broad talent pool , ensure that case be prosecute more swiftly and reduce unacceptable backlog , enable the Government to finally ensure quick justice for my constituent in the magistrate court and the Crown court at Bolton . finally , I welcome the provision in the Bill to close loophole in the unduly lenient sentence scheme , which have be remark on by the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) . the Bill will ensure that the Attorney General will always have at least 14 day to consider a referral , even if it be make at the end of the 28 - day limit . these provision will guarantee that victim and the public be not deny proper scrutiny of lenient sentence due to late submission . this Bill be thoughtful , robust and , above all , victim - focused . I look forward to support it during its passage through this place . we now come to the Front - Bench speaker for the wind - up speech . I call the shadow Minister . I thank member from all part of the House for their contribution to the debate . we have hear powerful speech that reflect the deep importance of the Bill , and the heavy responsibility that we all carry for deliver justice not just in name , but in practice . like other , I pay tribute to the campaigner who have join we , whom I be privileged to meet briefly early , and who be in the Gallery . they have all campaign on behalf of their love one — Sabina Nessa , Zara Aleena , Jan Mustafa and Olivia Pratt - Korbel . I pay particular tribute to the hon . member for Knowsley ( Anneliese Midgley ) for her incredibly powerful contribution . to see Cheryl hear those word , know that they be go on the record , will have impact so many member today . I be sure that it will be something that Cheryl will never forget . we must not forget how difficult the campaigning have be . all campaigner have have to relive experience and deal with the most unimaginable memory . they pay a very heavy price every time they have have to do that , and I thank they for it , and I know that other member will do the same . the opposition welcome the intent behind this legislation . measure to compel offender to attend sentencing hearing and to remove parental responsibility from serious child sex offender be commit to , and work be begin on they , by the previous Government . the provision to compel offender to attend their sentencing hearing come after we have see one too many disgraceful example in recent year of the most serious and violent criminal hide from justice , and from the pain that they have cause . that must end . we welcome cross - party support on this matter , but at present , the Bill leave out an important principle . the decision to require an offender ' s attendance should fundamentally be drive by the wish of the victim and their family . it be they who must live with the consequence of the crime , and they who should be at the centre of decide whether the person who harm they should be make to face they in court . justice must not just be see to be do , but should be shape by those it seek to serve . we will push for change to this legislation during its future stage to ensure that be the case . we also want to make sure that the correct balance be strike on the use of force . the Prison Officers ' Association be clear : notwithstanding concern about prison officer ' equipment , they will not resile from take offender to court . the legislation need to ensure that only in the most exceptional circumstance do that not happen . we have hear concern story about parent have to spend ten of thousand of pound in court to remove parental right from serious sexual offender , and I welcome the fact that the previous Government plan legislation to begin address that . we welcome our share desire to act on this issue , but the Minister will have hear campaigner ' concern that the approach in the Bill do not cut it . I welcome the Minister ' s public commitment to consider how to strengthen it . last year , when in opposition , the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , the hon . member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , who be sit in the Gallery , support an amendment for a much broad measure than the Government be propose today . I encourage she to speak to her colleague on the Front Bench about how this measure fall short . the debate then be around whether the measure should apply to offender perpetrate offence against any child , and about where to set the threshold . our propose measure be not perfect , but this measure be the bad of both world . it relate only those who have offend against their own child , and there be quite a high bar , in that they have to have be sentence to at least four year . I think that we can do well than that . we also welcome improvement to victim ' information right and the power of the Victims ' Commissioner . that role , which have be maintain by government of all party for a significant time now , be incredibly important . Baroness Newlove , the commissioner , will look closely at the Bill , and will support victim and campaigner in their effort to ensure that it deliver . she have also consistently raise a possible source of funding — funding be always a challenge for every Government Department : unpaid victim surcharge . the £ 1 billion - plus might help fund some of the work that we want to do . although there be measure that we welcome , there be change that be be trail as measure for victim , but that be nothing of the sort , such as the change to the unduly lenient sentence scheme , which have cause confusion even in the Chamber among Labour Members ; for example , the hon . member for Bolton West ( Phil Brickell ) seem to think that these be measure for victim . the measure on the unduly lenient sentence scheme be nothing to do with victim . a total of 14 , 000 people sign the petition for Sasha ' s law , which be set up by campaigner Katie Brett , who be on the Justice for Victims group , in memory of her sister Sasha . if the House will forgive I , I will detail what happen to her sister . she be murder in 2013 . age just 16 , she be rape and stab more than 100 time , and her body be set on fire . Katie and her family believe that her killer meet the criterion for a whole - life order , but he be only give a minimum sentence of 35 year . Katie and her family do not know anything about the right of appeal , and even if they do , who really think most people be in the right state of mind to think about that sort of thing within 28 day of the sentence be pass ? Katie be not alone . Ayse Hussein , another member of the campaign group who be also in the Gallery today , campaign in memory of her cousin , Jan . Jan ' s killer have rape , torture and imprison various girl and young woman , and also murder Henriett Szucs and hide the body of both woman in a freezer . he do not receive a whole - life sentence , and would probably leave prison one day . again , her family know nothing of the right to appeal . when they see that change be to be make to the scheme , campaigner reasonably think that the change would extend the 28 - day time limit for victim , but no : the Government want to give more time not to victim and family but to themselves . More time for Government mean that they have long to think about and reflect on these deeply personal and sensitive matter than victim will have . that be border on insult , and I think the Minister will share my concern . in Committee we will put forward amendment that require victim , not just the Government , to be give more time . I hope we will have the support of Labour Members who have commit today to support that measure , such as the hon . member for Ilford South ( Jas Athwal ) . we welcome the creation of a statutory right for victim to have information about an offender ' s release , but we want to know how this will be deliver , who will staff the helpline , how victim will know their right , and what exactly they will be tell . for some time , the Victims ' Commissioner have raise the question of whether victim should get to know the specific release date . to be clear , the current situation allow victim 28 day for a referral , and the Bill extend the period for consideration to 14 day . what we want be for victim to have long , and it seem absolutely right that that should happen . it would be a perfectly reasonable amendment for the Government to table in order to back victim . be that really too much to ask ? my right hon . friend have lay out the situation correctly . I count three Labour Members in the Chamber today who already support such a measure . I look forward to they vote in support of an amendment along those line give what they have say today , but I might not hold my breath . let we be clear that victim of crime need more than just the measure in the Bill . they need a criminal justice system that work and deliver justice swiftly , fairly and consistently . that be where the Bill fall short . when we be in government , we toughen up sentence for the bad criminal . we begin the difficult task of unpick automatic halfway early release for offender , which be introduce by Labour . we quadruple legal aid for victim and enshrine the victim code in law . we dedicate £ 230 million to our tackle domestic abuse plan , include a quadrupling of funding for victim and support service , and we introduce tagging of domestic abuser . Labour Members make a lot of promise in opposition , include on measure in the Bill . it be now up to they to deliver . the Bill might tighten certain law and improve the experience for some victim , but it fail to address the elephant in the room . it do nothing to tackle the fundamental problem that victim face every day when try to access justice . for all the good the Bill may do , it do nothing to address the mount pressure on our court after the Government spend almost a year drag their foot instead of do everything they could to get the court operate at maximum capacity . even now the Lord Chancellor be not pull every lever available when it come to court sitting day , as the Lady Chief Justice have repeatedly ask she to do . the truth be that victim be still wait month , sometimes year , for their case to be hear . trial collapse , and offender walk free — none of that be fix by this Bill . be a victim of crime be life - change . the very least a just society can do be ensure that victim be respect , protect and support through the process . we also urge the Government to commit to great transparency across the criminal justice system . without reliable datum we can not have accountability , and without accountability we can not have reform . we will press for the regular publication of statistic on court and hearing delay , trial backlog , court occupancy rate and administrative performance . victim and the public alike have a right to understand where and why the system be fall short . although we will not oppose the Bill on Second Reading , we will continue to work constructively to improve the legislation in important way . we support many of its goal , but we will continue to ask the difficult question : be it deliverable and enforceable , and will it actually make victim ' live well as it intend ? let we make this legislation a genuine step towards a justice system that work well . justice can not be delay , and it can not be selective ; it must be feel tangibly , fairly and swiftly by those who need it most . they deserve nothing less . it be a true privilege to deliver the closing speech on Second Reading of the Victims and Courts Bill . I would like to start by pay tribute to the family of Olivia Pratt - Korbel , Jan Mustafa , Zara Aleena and Sabina Nessa , most of whom have be in the Gallery and whom I have have the privilege of get to know over the past few month . as today ' s debate have show , the House agree that justice be not optional . criminal should never be allow to hide away from it . I be grateful to all of the family for their tireless campaign to bring forward measure on sentencing hearing . the change be an important step forward for victim and a testament to their courage . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Knowsley ( Anneliese Midgley ) for her very powerful word today . they be not just her word but the word of Cheryl Korbel , whose word will stay with I forever and whose word should have be hear by her daughter ' s killer . this Bill be a legacy for Olivia and for all those who have be fail by the justice system . as the Lord Chancellor have already outline , this Bill have victim ' experience at its core . as the Victims Minister , it be an honour to meet victim and survivor every single day in this role . this Bill have be create with they at its heart . I echo the tribute from the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) to the Justice for victim campaigner , who I have also have the privilege of meeting . Becky and Glenn Youens , Susan and Jeremy Everard , Katie Brett — whose story we have also powerfully hear from the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) — Paula Hudgell and Ayse Hussein , who be with we today , have all help to change the law , and we owe they all a huge debt of thank for that . this Bill will make the justice system more efficient — it be a system , and it all need to work for it to operate effectively — so that victim can begin to move on with their life fast . I sincerely thank member from all party for the thoughtful , powerful , sometimes emotional , but mostly constructive way in which they have contribute to the debate today . support and justice for victim should never be political . I stand here willing to work with anyone of any stripe and of any colour to make sure that we bring forward the strong package available for victim . the issue and the inheritance of our justice system have long be discuss in this place . it be well know to Members what a state our justice system be in when we come into office just 10 month ago , but this Government have begin to rebuild its foundation . this Bill will be just the beginning , not the end of our reform programme for victim . we have the independent review of our criminal court , lead by Sir Brian Leveson . that will lead to a more effective and efficient criminal court system , improve timeliness for victim , witness and defendant without jeopardise the requirement for a fair trial for all involved . we await the imminent outcome of David Gauke ' s review into sentencing , which will address a number of the issue that member have raise today . turn to some of the issue raise , I will respond first to my friend , the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) , the Liberal Democrat spokesperson . I be proud to work with he for victim in this place . he have always be constructive and be always seek to do what be right . although I can not give he the commitment today , I be meet he tomorrow morning , and we will hopefully have imminent news for he on a lot of the work we have be do together . I also thank his fellow Liberal Democrat , the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) for all her work on court transcript and specifically the pilot for sentencing remark transcript in case of rape and serious sexual offence . have speak to victim and survivor , I know how vital that be for they . the pilot be due to end next week and we will soon be publish our response and how we intend to take that forward . I look forward to speak with she further on that soon . many member speak about the parental responsibility measure . I stress that the Government have hear the strength of feeling on this issue . our focus must be on automatically restrict parental responsibility for offender who have commit serious child sexual abuse offence — the most heinous crime in society . we be take that step today in this Bill for those who have commit these offence against a child for whom they personally hold parental responsibility , because we need to protect those in direct harm . I stress and echo the word of the Secretary of State that this be a novel and untested change in the law . the response from perpetrator be unpredictable , so we have choose to focus first on case of high harm , because we do not want unintended consequence and we need to prioritise all vulnerable child who be go through the family court . however , this be the beginning , as we have say , and we look forward to work constructively across the House on this measure . I know that my hon . friend care deeply about this issue . in the course of the passage of the Bill , will the Government look at amendment that could see the family court end the presumption of contact and ensure we end this cycle of abuse ? my hon . friend be a champion for the cause of protect child go through the family court , as be my hon . friend the Member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Dr Tidball ) , whose contribution today be equally powerful . meet her constituent Claire Throssell , and hear the story of Jack and Paul , will stick with I forever . I think about that on a daily basis . the Government be commit to ensure that the family justice system deliver the right outcome for survivor of domestic abuse and their child . we have hear loud and clear concern in the Chamber and from outside on the need to go far . a child ' s welfare must always be the family court ' s paramount consideration when make decision about that child ' s life . the Ministry of Justice have undertake a review on presumption of parental involvement , and its finding , along with any recommendation , will be publish shortly . I look forward to work with hon . member across the House , include my hon . friend , on that soon . right hon . and hon . member across the House make many comment about the unduly lenient sentencing scheme , welcome measure in the Bill about extend the time limit for the Attorney General to look effectively at case so that justice can be serve . as they will know , the Law Commission be undertake a review into the scheme as a whole , and I — and I be sure the Law Commission — would welcome their feedback on that . we will look closely at the finding of that review to ensure that any recommendation be carry out effectively . I be extremely grateful to the hon . Lady for give way — by the way , I have always like she . I take at face value what she have say . will that Law Commission review be in time to amend the Bill ? that be key . if it will not be on time , how can we handle that ? it be important to look at any Law Commission recommendation properly and effectively . of course there will be time , because we be in the first year of a five - year Parliament and this will not be the Ministry of Justice ' s only Bill . as I have say , the justice system that we inherit from the previous Government be in crisis , and we be begin to put it back piece by piece , start with our prison , our court , our victim support and family court , look at the system as a whole . further legislative vehicle will come forward from the Ministry of Justice where recommendation that have be review could be adopt . I know that we be short on time , but I want to turn to the comment make by the hon . member for Weald of Kent ( Katie Lam ) about the IICSA . I will put it on the record again — I think it need to be say — that the Government be absolutely focused on deliver meaningful change for victim impact by these horrendous crime . early this year , we publish our plan for respond to the recommendation of the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse through the Crime and Policing Bill , on which I be proud also to be a Minister . we be strengthen the law by introduce a mandatory reporting duty to make it an offence to fail to report or to cover up child sexual abuse . we be also legislate in that Bill to make groom a statutory aggravate factor in the sentencing of child sexual offence to ensure that that behaviour be reflect in the sentencing of perpetrator . we also plan to legislate to remove the three - year limit for compensation claim and shift the burden of proof from victim to defendant in the civil court , as well as amend the law of apology to encourage employer to apologise to people wrong by their employee . a legislative vehicle be currently be identify for that measure . I stress again that the Government be get on with the job of deliver for those victim and survivor . we be not delay ; we be actively work at pace to ensure that justice will be serve and support be available . the right hon . member for Dwyfor Meirionnydd ( Liz Saville Roberts ) raise the case of Rhianon Bragg . again , I be proud to have the opportunity to meet Rhianon and to discuss her case . through the Bill , we will be strengthen the victim notification scheme and open it up to more victim , ensure that timely communication be available . victim have tell I time and again that that be need ; this change will be testament to that . on her call for Wales , she will know that , as a proud Welsh MP , I will always stand up for Wales and for Pontypridd . a justice system that cover England and Wales robustly be important , and I will ensure that it be there . I will meet the Welsh Government soon to feed back her specific concern . a number of colleague mention bad character evidence . they will be aware that the Law Commission be look into that , and we will carefully consider its recommendation . I stress again that I be willing to work constructively with right hon . and hon . member on all the issue that have be raise . the Bill be one of many legislative vehicle that we will have . the Bill stand before we as a legacy for the victim and survivor that I have have the honour of meeting in my 10 month in this role . these change be long overdue . they will strengthen our justice system and help deliver the accountability and service that victim of crime want and deserve . I urge the House to give they its full support . I stand ready to work with everyone on that . I proudly commend the Bill to the House . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . victim and Courts Bill ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Victims and Courts Bill : Committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Public Bill Committee ( 2 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on Thursday 26 June 2025 . ( 3 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . consideration and Third Reading ( 4 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which those proceeding be commence . ( 5 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding on consideration and Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Vicky Foxcroft . ) question agree to . victim and Courts Bill ( Money ) king ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Victims and Courts Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of any increase attributable to the Act in the sum payable under or by virtue of any other Act out of money so provide . — ( Vicky Foxcroft . ) question agree to . School building : Northumberland and Newcastle Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Vicky Foxcroft . ) I be glad to have secure this important debate and to see the member who have stay in the Chamber and who share my concern about the condition of school building in Northumberland , in Newcastle and across the country . speak on the condition of school building and the education of our young people should not be use for political gain or for make cheap political point — to be clear , I be not here to do that . I regularly visit school throughout my constituency . despite be school in the large geographical constituency in England , they be all unite by a clear , overarch similarity : the dedication of teacher and staff to ensure that their student can access the good possible education and resource . from Queen Elizabeth high school to the Sele first school to Hexham middle school and Longhorsley St Helen ' s Church of England first school , the list go on . there be an unwavering strength of community throughout the local school , foster by the teacher , the parent , the staff and the student , and it be a testament to the constituency that the region I represent care so much about the future of our young people . when we invest in the condition of our school , we be not just fix building and infrastructure ; we be invest in the education of our student and the future of our young people , create a secure learning environment that should allow all student to reach their full potential . unfortunately for student of Prudhoe community high school in my constituency , those young people have be let down . in February , mere month before student be set to sit their GCSE and a - level examination , structural engineer discover crack that threaten the safety of student , staff and teacher . as a result , the school be close while investigation be conduct . it be testament to the strength of Prudhoe ' s community , to the staff and headteacher Annemarie Moore , and to the Cheviot Learning Trust that student have be successfully relocate , with minimal disruption , to a building in Washington . relocate it equipment , remove furniture , and launch cleaning and repair be no small feat , and I commend everyone involve for their dedication to Prudhoe ' s student and to find the most appropriate location for they to continue their education in what must be some very try circumstance . I think back to my own experience of do gcse and a - level not that long ago . it be challenge enough to do they in a school that be great as it be . it be another thing to imagine do that with the stress and while lose all that time on the bus every week . although everyone accept that the good outcome would have be for student to go back into school to receive their education on site , that simply would not have be safe . I commend the Department for Education for the hard work , support and reassurance that it have provide to the student , teacher , parent and staff every step of the way . however , the situation raise an urgent question : how can a school build less than nine year ago , under the previous Government , be close due to crack in the building ' s infrastructure ? there be one clear answer to I : the blatant disregard of the previous Government for my constituency ' s community . the Conservative Government have launch the priority school building programme with the intention of " rebuild and refurbish school building in the bad condition across the country . " they appear to have achieve what could be describe as the opposite . I commend the hon . gentleman for bring forward this matter for debate . I speak to he this afternoon to seek his permission to intervene on he tonight , and he have give I that opportunity . he be right to highlight the issue of school and their importance . the most important thing about school be the child — the pupil — as he have clearly outline . when a school be only eight or nine year old , there should be a warranty that cover all eventuality . the hon . Gentleman might be come to that and to tell we where the warranty work and do not work . I would expect , as I be sure he would if he have a house with a warranty on it , that there would be substantial cover to ensure that the school could be repair and that the child could get back there — because that be the most important thing : the child . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely correct : the most important thing be the child . this be about the child of Prudhoe and the whole community . if he ever have the opportunity to visit Prudhoe community high school , which I hope he do , he will see the most extraordinary set of student , and staff who be desperate to get their child back on site and back into learning . PCHS be where my mum go to school , so I have a very personal link to it . I have speak to the headteacher multiple time about make sure that we get those student back on site with the correct support that be need , so I absolutely agree with the hon . gentleman on that . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech — he be clearly a passionate advocate for his school in Northumberland . another school in Northumberland be Berwick Academy , which be Berwick community high school until it become an academy in 2011 . over the year it have be good , but it now require improvement . in term of its physical condition , unfortunately the student ' toilet now have black mould , which — he be talk about the previous Government — be a terrible failing . we be still wait on the plan to rebuild that school . in 2021 the county council have a plan to rebuild it , but we be still wait on an outline business case . do he agree that these be just not good enough standard for our student , for our parent and for our community as a whole in Northumberland ? my hon . friend be a passionate advocate for his constituency and for the north of the county . too often school in Northumberland have be victim of the ma ñ ana attitude of Northumberland county council . for far too long , whether it be on this or on SEND — special educational need and disability — transport , the council have be asleep at the wheel when it come to issue affect the child of Northumberland . the structural issue at the school have damage not only the community but the child ' s education . one thing that really stick out to I be a quote from a former Conservative Education Minister say that those school be build " one third cheap per square metre on average than school build under the Building Schools for the Future Programme " , which be labour ' s flagship programme . educational service should not just be use for political gain when our country and our county ' s young people depend on they . the student of Prudhoe deserve and need a safe place to continue their education . they need it in the short term , and they need it in the long term . when a report be leak to the Observer that a senior official at the Department for Education have describe the " upcoming risk " three year ago that many school be in such disrepair that they be a " risk to life " , I do not believe that a newly rebuild community high school in Prudhoe be one of the one at the top of their mind . the school ' s facility be describe as fantastic when it reopen , and they be a welcome investment , but it be clear that something have go seriously wrong . I completely take the point make by the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) about the need to look at a warranty . for my generation , a warranty be something we consider for a mobile phone , not a public institution like a school , but clearly something need to be do . I would really like the Minister to reflect on what can be do to investigate how this go so badly wrong and how this community be let down , because the student of PCHS deserve nothing more . they deserve well . they deserve , at the very least , an apology . to experience a school closing for an indeterminate period of time be a disruption that no student should have to experience . it uproot life , derail routine and destabilise student . no child should have to go through this . no parent should be force to watch their child go through this . as the hon . member for Strangford indicate , school be not just a building where child learn ; it be a building where child should feel safe , support and at home . I have have a visit today from student at St Wilfrid ' s school in Branton — the 17th , of the 43 school in my constituency , that I have see or visit — and they speak about the fabric of the school , and of the importance of the building to ensure not just that student have the right learning environment , but that teacher , parent and the community can feel proud to have a place where child can thrive . the fabric of the building be really important for education . would my hon . friend agree that we need to do something for all school across the country to ensure that their fabric be maintain and look after ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . like he , I have do my good to visit as many school in the constituency as I can — have say that , I can feel letter come in from headteacher to suggest that I have not yet get around to visit . the fabric of the school be important . ensure that school feel invest in be important , whether they be the small school in my constituency like Kielder , which be incredibly small and have a tightly focused and tight - knit group of young people and staff , or some of the large school — or , indeed , some of the school out of my constituency , in Newcastle , attend by some child from Callerton and Throckley . some of the damage do to the community in Prudhoe be due to the feeling that they be lead up the garden path . Prudhoe be an incredible community . it be one of the shine light of the Tyne valley . it be one of the good place to visit , and to be , in my constituency , although all town in the Tyne valley be excellent . it deserve so much more — it deserve a Rolls - Royce of a school — but not only be the last Labour Government ' s Building Schools for the Future programme scrap ; the replacement programme appear poorly craft at well . I want briefly to mention another school in my constituency . Haydon Bridge high school have a dedicated teaching force and a headteacher , in David Nisbet , who work tirelessly for his community and be focus on innovative way of improve the school , on employability , on move forward and improve outcome for student . I do not want to mislead the House , but I believe the school serve a catchment area large than the M25 . the challenge for such a rural school be massive . I visit the school fairly recently and we discuss some of the challenge it face , include get adequate fund and support . it do get some minor investment under the last government , which be obviously welcome — don ' t get I wrong — but it do not touch the side of what be need . I would like to see Northumberland county council do something about the state of the toilet in that school , which the headteacher tell I be the no . 1 issue raise by the student voice . these be little thing that could be do ; it be a council - maintain school , and the council should step in and take action . there be a list of inadequacy in the backing provide to those school — I could go on . how could these condition for a school building , and inadequate investment , possibly foster an educational environment that help student to reach their full potential ? I want to draw attention to the work of the RISE programme . I have some correspondence with the head of Haydon Bridge , who recognise that the contextual support that Haydon Bridge high school be now get — that be mindful of its hyper - rural , hyper - sparsely populated location — be welcome . that contextual support , in relation to school ' structural element and the socioeconomic make - up of their student body , be necessary . what I have be say be applicable not just to PCHS and Haydon Bridge high school , but to every school building throughout Northumberland , Newcastle and the north - east that be on the receive end of 14 year of conservative neglect . throughout my constituency , we have wonderful teacher who adapt to the diverse need of the community they teach , from the western edge of Newcastle and place like Throckley , and the town and village of the Tyne valley , to the most remote community in the Allen valley and north Tyne . all those teacher be strive to ensure that their pupil have the good possible start in life . it be only right that their dedication and hard work be deliver in building that be fit for the present and for the future . I will continue to speak up for our young people to ensure that they access not only the education they need , but the education they deserve . I will continue to give a voice to Northumberland , Newcastle and the north - east more broadly . chronic underfunding , deliberate neglect and thoughtless oversight be what the conservative contempt for the west of Northumberland bring during 100 year of domination , but that need to end with this Labour Government . I once again thank the Department for Education for their dedication and commitment to support the community of Prudhoe ; I thank Sunderland College for its gracious hospitality in host the staff and student of Prudhoe community high school in its Washington campus ; and I thank the teacher and staff of PCHS for do everything they possibly could so student could continue access their education , and for reassuring parent during a very difficult transition . Most of all , I pay tribute to the community of Prudhoe and to the councillor who have work particularly hard , include Angie Scott and Lawrence O ' Donnell , who have be fantastic voice for their community during a fraught time . I be grateful for those who do not jump in and immediately seek to politicise the matter or score point when the news about Prudhoe community high school first break . although it be important that we look at this situation in context and at the damage do by the poor decision make by the previous Government , this be not about scoring point ; it be about get a fair deal for a community that have suffer for too long . it be time that the previous Government be hold to account for their failure and neglect , and that start with what happen to the student and staff at Prudhoe community high school . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Hexham ( Joe Morris ) for secure a debate on this important subject . I know that he be a tireless champion for child and young people in his constituency , and a strong voice on the matter that he have raise . I also thank all member who have contribute through intervention . education be at the heart of this Government ' s mission to break down barrier to opportunity and give every young person the good start in life , no matter their background . fourteen year after the cancellation of the Building Schools for the Future programme , this Government inherit a school estate in dire need of repair . we be committed to fix the foundation for staff and pupil , and determine to drive high and rise education standard for child across the country . that be why we protect key education priority at the Budget , increase investment this financial year to £ 2 . 1 billion to improve the condition of school building — up from £ 1 . 8 billion last year — and have commit to continue the current school rebuilding programme . we be drive forward that programme , include for five school and college in Northumberland and Newcastle . start this April , we be kick off work on 100 school rebuilding project and ramp up the pace of delivery , back by £ 1 . 4 billion this year , in recognition of the urgent need to improve the condition of school building . we be fund the permanent removal of reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete in school and college across England , work directly with affected school on plan to suit individual need . we support local authority , academy trust and voluntary aid school body , which be responsible for keep their building safe and in good working order , by provide capital funding , rebuild programme , and extensive guidance and support . they work with their school on a day - to - day basis and be well place to manage their building , with local knowledge of individual condition , need and priority . where the Department for Education be notify of a significant safety issue with a school building that can not be manage with local resource , we provide additional advice and support on a case - by - case basis . we want all school and college to have the resource and building that they need to give our young people the freedom to learn in safe , high - quality environment . on the specific point raise by my hon . friend , I appreciate the significant disruption and challenge that the Prudhoe community high school building closure have cause for everyone involve . the safety of pupil and staff be paramount . we have be provide advice and support to the responsible body since we be make aware of the building issue that lead to the decision by the trust to close the school in February 2025 . we have work closely with the school trust to identify alternative accommodation option to return pupil to face - to - face education as quickly as possible . all pupil be relocate to the Sunderland College Washington campus , as a whole school community , and resume face - to - face education from 31 March . I can assure he that our priority and focus remain to return pupil to education on the school site as soon as possible . I be aware that the school be build as part of the priority school building programme in 2016 , as my hon . friend identify . from our own investigation , we understand that the issue be an isolated one . we be work closely with the trust as its investigation continue into the cause of the problem as a matter of priority . we will continue to work with the trust on remediation option to enable a return to the school site . we be a mission - lead Government , dedicate to break down the barrier to opportunity and give every child the good start in life . we can not do that without well - maintain building in which child and young people can learn safely . that be why we have recently publish our school estate management standard , gather in one place link to key policy , process and practical advice on the basic of manage a school estate , to help the body that manage school building daily to progress to fully effective practice . drive high and rise school standard be at the heart of our plan for change to improve child ' s life chance , and high - quality , sustainable building be a key part of that . for too long our school estate have be neglect . this government be grip that issue and ensure that school building be fit for the future . question put and agree to . House adjourn .