it be an honour to follow the hon . member for Bradford East ( Imran Hussain ) and his impassioned word . if I may address he directly — if you will oblige I , Mr Deputy Speaker — as well as other member stake their claim to Britain ' s good curry , it would be an honour on behalf of the people of Tewkesbury to join they in sample great curry and determine a champion . on a more sombre note , I be grateful that during the King ' s Speech there be a commitment to a strategic defence review . I remind the House that in 2016 the russian President deploy a chemical weapon on the street of Salisbury . the life of Sergei and Yulia Skripal be change forever , as be the life of a courageous police officer , and a young mother lose her life . today , in 2024 , the russian war machine again deploy chemical on the battlefield of Europe . I hope that the strategic defence review will give due impetus to counter the renew chemical threat . I once hold the honour of lead a parade at the Menin Gate ceremony in Ypres , commemorate those who give their life in some of the most vicious battle of world war one . I have have the honour to call the salute at the national Cenotaph here in Westminster . it be an honour in equal standing to deliver my maiden speech to the House on behalf of the people of Tewkesbury . I follow a proud lineage of armed force service , which include my two brother and my great - grandfather , Petty Officer Supply Charles Trenchard , who give his life aboard HMS Illustrious in world war two . I first move to tewkesbury 16 year into my own military career with the Royal Air Force assignment at Imjin barrack , so name after the battle of the Imjin river fight by the Glorious Glosters in 1951 while outnumber 18 : 1 . tewkesbury ' s quaint Cotswold village and town , crown by our beautiful abbey , now make for an idyllic environment to raise my darling daughter . should any Member of the House wish to don armour and join I at Europe ' s large annual medieval festival , they would be very welcome . I pay tribute to my predecessor , the honourable Laurence Robertson , a Lancastrian who make north Gloucestershire his home and represent Tewkesbury for 27 year , win at seven consecutive general election . my defeat of that particular Lancastrian , I must say , be not in keep with the tradition set in 1471 by the Yorkists at the battle of tewkesbury ; it be an altogether more peaceful affair , and I find Laurence to be dignified and humble as the result become clear . indeed , the close thing to weaponry on show that morning be the dagger be stare at I by one member of his entourage , which I must admit I thoroughly enjoy . in defeat my predecessor , I become the first non - Conservative Member of Parliament in Tewkesbury since 1885 . the weight of history bear heavily , yet pale alongside the responsibility . the only other time I have be elect in any capacity be by my fellow officer cadet on initial officer training course 60 at RAF College Cranwell , to represent they to the College Commandant , a one - star officer . immediately follow that vote , my squadron leader Craig Gaul bring I to his office , swear that I be his man , but practically force - feed I his Debrett ' s guide to etiquette and beg I not to end his career . six year on , he be no long in the RAF , though I be unaware of any connection . for my own part , I also have to hand in my uniform once it become clear that the change so desperately need by our most courageous and selfless public servant must take place within this House . our country find itself at a crossroad . the climate emergency present an existential threat to humankind and to the ecosystem that support life on this planet . we must collectively and decisively turn to face the threat now and export bold leadership to our neighbour across the world . the future be in the hand of our young people . we must equip they today so that they can apply their energy to the challenge of tomorrow , but we can not expect young people to engage in their political future when the curriculum do not enable they to do so and while an imbalanced education system deny so many the opportunity of the privileged few . neurodiverse child be let down by a neurotypical education system build by neurotypical people for neurotypical people . if we be to unlock the challenge of tomorrow with diversity of thought , we must harness the opportunity of neurodiversity . finally , trust in politic have never be more fragile . it be the responsibility of we all to restore public faith in our political institution . I invite fellow member in the Chamber to renew UK politic through respectful discourse , regardless of our difference , and by dedicate this parliamentary term to public service . voter will engage with politic only if they feel that their vote have value . we must transition to an electoral system of proportional representation . on behalf of the people of Tewkesbury , thank you .