prayer the First Deputy Chairman of Ways and Means take the Chair as Deputy Speaker ( Standing Order no . 3 ) . I beg to move , that the House sit in private . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 163 ) and negative . Pet Abduction Bill Consideration of Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee before we begin , I remind member of the difference between Report and Third Reading . the scope of the debate on Report be the new clause and amendment that have be select . the scope of the Third Reading debate to follow will be the whole Bill as it stand after report . member may wish to consider those point and then decide at which stage or stage they want to try to catch my eye . New Clause 1 - Guidance " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must publish guidance on the enforcement of the provision of this Act . ( 2 ) before issue guidance under subsection ( 1 ) , the Secretary of State must consult the Crown Prosecution Service . " — ( Sir Christopher Chope . ) bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow : amendment 1 , in clause 1 , page 1 , line 2 , after " if " insert " without lawful authority or a reasonable excuse " . this amendment seek to ensure that an offence be only commit if the act complain of be show to have be make without lawful authority or a reasonable excuse , so that it be not necessary for the person allege to have commit the offence to prove their innocence . amendment 2 , page 1 , line 3 , after " to " insert " permanently " . this amendment seek to ensure that only act where the dog be permanently remove from lawful control would fall under the offence . amendment 3 , page 1 , line 3 , leave out " any person " and insert " its keeper " . this amendment seek to ensure that only where a dog be remove from the lawful control of its register keeper fall under the offence , rather than removal from any person . amendment 4 , page 1 , line 5 , after " to " insert " permanently " . this amendment seek to ensure that only act where the dog be detain so as to permanently keep it would fall under the offence . amendment 5 , page 1 , line 5 , leave out from " of " to end of line 6 and insert " its keeper " . this amendment seek to ensure that only where a dog be detain so as to keep it from its register keeper fall under the offence . amendment 6 , page 1 , leave out line 21 to 23 . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 1 . amendment 7 , page 2 , line 16 , leave out " ( 3 ) " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 6 . amendment 8 , page 2 , line 30 , at end insert — " ( aa ) reference to a dog be only to a dog which — ( i ) have be implant with a microchip pursuant to the Microchipping of Cats and Dogs ( England ) Regulations 2023 ; or ( ii ) have be certify as exempt from such an implant under those Regulations " . the above Regulations provide for the compulsory microchipping of dog and the recording of each dog ' s identity and its keeper ' s contact detail on a database . this amendment ensure that the offence of dog abduction can only be make in respect of dog which have be microchippe ( or be certify as exempt ) in accordance with those Regulations and will thereby incentivise keeper to comply with the rule about microchipping . amendment 9 , page 2 , line 34 , at end insert — " ( aa ) " keeper " have the meaning give to it under the Microchipping of Cats and Dogs ( England ) Regulations 2023 " . this amendment ensure that " keeper " be intend to have the same meaning as under the specify Regulations . amendment 10 , page 2 , line 39 , leave out clause 2 . this amendment remove the offence of cat abduction . amendment 11 , in clause 3 , page 3 , line 36 , leave out " or 2 " . this amendment be consequential on the removal of clause 2 from the Bill . amendment 12 , page 4 , line 5 , leave out " or 2 " . this amendment be consequential on the removal of clause 2 from the Bill . amendment 13 , page 4 , line 8 , leave out " or 2 ( 5 ) " . this amendment be consequential on the removal of clause 2 from the Bill . amendment 14 , page 4 , line 38 , leave out " or 2 " . this amendment be consequential on the removal of clause 2 from the Bill . amendment 15 , page 5 , line 6 , leave out " and 2 " . this amendment be consequential on the removal of clause 2 from the Bill . Amendment 19 , page 5 , line 6 , leave out " come into force in relation to England " . and insert " , so far as they extend to England and Wales , come into force " . this be a technical amendment to ensure that it be clear how the commencement of clause 1 and 2 operate in so far as those clause extend to England and Wales ( rather than just in relation to England ) . amendment 21 , page 5 , line 7 , at end insert " provide that the Secretary of State have fulfil the requirement to publish the guidance require by section [ Guidance ] " . amendment 16 , page 5 , line 11 , leave out " and 2 " . this amendment be consequential on the removal of clause 2 from the Bill . amendment 20 , page 5 , line 11 , leave out " in relation " and insert " so far as they extend " . this be a technical amendment to ensure that the commencement of clause 1 and 2 be deal with in the same way throughout clause 6 . before I begin to address the issue , Madam Deputy Speaker , may I , on behalf of myself and many other , express our condolence to Mr Speaker , who I know be unable to be present today because he be attend his father ' s funeral ? I have the privilege of serve with Doug Hoyle in this House from 1983 until 1992 , and he be an exemplar for Back - Bench activity during that time . our sympathy be very much with Mr Speaker . turn to the amendment , and particularly new clause 1 , I thank the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Keighley ( Robbie Moore ) and my right hon . friend the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries , with whom I be privileged to have a meeting last week to discuss my amendment . they will have a well understanding of the way I work than quite a lot of other colleague . I be pleased that as a result of that meeting there be essentially an agreement — an acceptance — that we must try to link communication about the appalling incident of pet abduction or theft to the need for people to microchip their loved animal , particularly dog and cat . in the course of that discussion , it be point out by the Minister of State that before the Bill be to become law , it will be necessary for guidance to be discuss with the Crown Prosecution Service regard exactly what the enforcement provision would be . I hope that in respond to this debate , my right hon . friend will expand on that point . follow that discussion , I think I would table a new clause about guidance , so that any reference in the debate could include reference to the specific issue of guidance that would be issue follow the enactment of the Bill . I would like that guidance to set out clearly the position for people who do not microchip their cat and dog . microchipping of dog be mandatory and have be since 2010 , but we know that something between 5 % and 10 % of the 9 . 5 million dog in this country be not microchippe . in early June , it will be mandatory for all cat to be microchippe , and probably about 70 % have be microchippe by now . I hope that we can send out a message , in discuss this important legislation , that if someone do not have their cat or dog microchippe , they should not expect the law to rush to their assistance in the event of their cat or dog be abduct . apart from anything else , if they complain to the police that their dog or cat have be abduct and it have not be microchippe , it be all the more difficult to identify it , search for it and so on . on that great principle of english equity , it seem to I that if someone seek the protection of the law , they should come with clean hand . in this context , that mean they should be able to say that they have comply with the law in respect of the pet for which they have responsibility and have microchippe they . I hope people will realise that if they do not — I hope that the Government will point this out in the guidance — have their pet microchippe , they will not be able to take advantage of the benefit and special provision in this legislation . my hon . friend be make a fair point that if people want help when their dog have be steal , they should have they properly chip in accordance with the regulation . I do not think puppy be include in that . it be important that we think about the pet owner for whom we be try to get this Bill through . I know that he be not seek in any way to block it , but these people would almost certainly have comply with the law , and I understand that the amendment would make it far more difficult for the police . while I understand the sentiment , I hope he will not press this to a Division . I will hold my counsel on that until I hear the Minister ' s response . if I say now that I agree with the Minister before he have even say anything , I would be close off an important option . despite the temptation from my right hon . friend , I will not do that . she herself have say to I in private that she think there be a lot to be say for what I be try to achieve on microchipping . I have a specific amendment link microchippe to the text of the Bill . the guidance be perhaps another way of achieve the same objective . my right hon . friend remind I that when the Bill come out of Committee , it be originally put on the list of Bills to be consider without debate on a Friday , on the basis that everything that could have be say about it have already be say and it should now proceed directly to the statute book . it be with wry amusement that I see that my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) , the promotor of the Bill , have now take advantage of the opportunity provide by have a debate on Report to put down her own amendment to the Bill . she could not have do that if her original intention of have the Bill go through all remain stage on the nod have be implement . I hope she will thank I for that . since the Bill be first produce , the Government have bring forward some important new measure relate to microchippe to deal with the problem of the conflicting or complementary microchipping database . the pet theft taskforce be commission to look into these issue of pet abduction , and it strongly recommend that something be do to ensure that there be one consistent database for microchipping that be accessible to vet , the police and local authority . I be pleased to see that the Government have issue guidance , and that there will potentially be new regulation , on that . when we meet , the Minister tell I that that will come into force before the end of this year . hopefully that will make the use of the microchip database easier and reduce the cost of enforcement . obviously , the priority that a Bill or an issue have in the House depend largely on the view of right hon . and hon . member . the Government obviously believe that pet abduction be an important issue , as indeed it be , but we need to keep it in context with the burden on the enforcement authority of bring in new law and , with that , new penalty and essentially new pressure for prosecution . that be why the guidance will be important . the late figure that I have show that in 2020 , with 9 . 6 million dog in the country , there be only 2 , 000 report of dog theft . by contrast , the late figure show that in England and Wales in 2022 - 23 , 130 , 521 motor vehicle theft be report — one every five minute . we therefore need to keep the issue in context . there seem to be an exponential increase in the incidence of motor vehicle theft and an inability of the police and the prosecute authority to investigate thoroughly and prosecute the perpetrator . the number of motor vehicle theft be resolve by the prosecution and enforcement authority seem to be derisorily low . I therefore do not think we should have guidance that essentially say to the police that deal with the potential prosecution or investigation of a theft of an unmicrochipped dog or cat should take precedence over try to find the perpetrator — often gang — who be steal motor vehicle to order off the street , and in some case even from people ' s garage or drive . my hon . friend be be generous in give way . perhaps he might consider that the instance of motor vehicle be steal to order be a symptom of organised crime , just as we recognise that pet theft be now a key contributor to organise crime . I accept that behind the incidence of pet theft there be organised crime , but in the late figure that we have , that organise crime have result in only some 2 , 000 incident of dog theft , compare with more than 130 , 000 incident of motor vehicle theft , many of which have be steal to order . I accept that some of the pet theft we be experience be because pet of increase value be be steal to order , so I be not say that we should not deal with that ; I be say that we should ensure that the guidance issue reflect the public priority and do not divert too much police resource away to concentrate on pet theft rather than other crime such as motor vehicle theft . that be the background to new clause 1 , which would require the Secretary of State to publish guidance on the enforcement of the provision of the Act . I hope that in respond , my hon . friend the Minister will say that he will do that anyway , so there will be no need to include this provision in the Bill . in our discussion , one of the point make by my right hon . friend the Minister of State be that he would prefer the Bill to go through the House totally unamended . I suspect , however , that that aspiration have be abandon , because the promoter of the Bill , my hon . friend the Member for Southend West , have table her own amendment . they seem perfectly reasonable , but that would mean the Bill would be amend in this place . if the Bill be to be amend , one or two of her amendment could be a complement by other amendment , should they be necessary . in that respect there have be a development since our meeting , when nobody declare a need for the Bill to be amend . my hon . friend will speak in due course . I will speak briefly to some of my other point . the Bill , as draft , state : " a person ( a ) commit the offence of dog abduction if they — ( a ) take a dog so as to remove it from the lawful control of any person , or ( b ) detain a dog so as to keep it from the lawful control of any person who be entitle to … it " . it be only after have be arrest for that offence that a person could take advantage of the defence , under clause 1 ( 2 ) , that before the allege abduction the pet be live in the same household as that person . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . as the House will be aware , very serious event have take place overnight in the middle east , with Israel apparently strike target in Iran . that could lead to far , very serious escalation . as a former armed force Minister and now a member of the Defence Committee , may I take this opportunity to say that it be important , as the House be fortuitously sit today , that a Minister from either the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office or the Ministry of Defence come to the House as soon as possible to make a statement on exactly what we know about the attack and what the Government believe the implication might be ? Madam Deputy Speaker , have you or the Speaker ' s Office have any indication that the Government intend to make such a statement , and , if so , at what time ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his point of order . as he say , he be an ex - armed force Minister . there have be no indication either to myself or to the Speaker ' s Office , so far as I be aware , that the Government intend to make a statement . certainly , at the conference meeting this morning there be no indication that the Government intend to make a statement , but Government Front Benchers will have hear his point . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I do not for one moment wish to push my luck , but under the circumstance I believe that a statement be very important . as you know , the Government can interrupt business at any time to make a statement . such be the importance of these event — and I notify the office of the Leader of the House that I would make this point of order — that I believe , before the House rise this afternoon , a Minister should come to the House to tell we everything that the Government know about what be go on . I will leave it at that . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his further point of order . I note that he have inform the Leader of the House of his strong view on the matter , so I think he be right that at this stage we leave that there . I take it from the ruling you have just make , Madam Deputy Speaker , that , unfortunately , there be no application for an urgent question on the matter that my right hon . friend raise . if there have be such an application , in the circumstance it be likely to have be grant . perhaps the Government , when think about whether they will make a statement , should take into account that so far they have be very lucky that there be not an application for an urgent question in the require timescale . they be probably prepare for such an eventuality , so it would be reasonable for the Government to come along and volunteer a statement , as my right hon . friend have request . the hon . Gentleman be rather push his luck . could he return to his speech on the Bill ? you be quite right , Madam Deputy Speaker , to emphasise the importance of the Bill we be discuss . this be not the only occasion when , compare with what be happen in the rest of the world , the legislation we be discuss seem to many people to be relatively unimportant , but pet abduction be a very important subject for those who be directly affect by it . before the point of order , I be seek to make the point that people should not be charge or arrest for dog abduction if it be clear at the time of the initial investigation that , at the time of the taking or detention of the dog , the person who take or detain the dog , the person from whom lawful control be take and the dog all live together in the same household . why should a household in that situation be face with have to defend themselves against arrest and prosecution by use this defence ? surely it would be well and fair to require that someone only commit an offence if they abduct a dog without lawful authority or a reasonable excuse . that be the background to my put forward new clause 1 . we increasingly put the cart before the horse in accuse people of crime and then force they to defend themselves against the allegation , instead of require the prosecute authority to look into possible defence or excuse before make an arrest or institute a prosecution . amendment 2 be design to test out whether an offence be commit if a dog be not permanently remove from someone ' s lawful control . I look forward to hear the Minister ' s comment in response to that . amendment 3 be design to ensure that an offence be commit only where a dog be remove from the lawful control of its register keeper , rather than where it be take from any other person . I know it will be say that if someone be a dog walker or run some kennel and be not the registered keeper , the offence of pet abduction should equally apply , but in those circumstance the more serious offence of theft should be apply under the Theft Act 1968 . again , that would emphasise the distinction between somebody who be a registered keeper and whose detail be set out on the microchip database , and another person to whom the dog have be give for safe keeping , for whatever reason . amendment 4 would test out the distinction between the requirement of permanence where someone be deprive an owner of their dog , which in essence come under the Theft Act 1968 , and the less stringent requirement under this Bill . amendment 5 be a similar amendment to ensure that only where a dog be detain so as to keep it from its registered owner would there be an offence . amendment 6 be consequential on amendment 1 , and amendment 7 be consequential on amendment 6 . that bring I to amendment 8 , which deal with the key point that cause I to get engage on Report , because we have a great opportunity to link this new offence of pet abduction to the microchippe requirement . as I understand it , there be very few prosecution for people keep dog or cat without comply with the microchippe requirement . the microchippe requirement in respect of cat do not become law until early June , but that law be already well in place in respect of dog . as with all these thing , there be a danger that the Government make regulation or legislate and then no proper enforcement take place . why , after 10 - plus year , be probably the good part of 1 million dog that should be microchippe still not ? what be be do about that ? why be nothing be do about it ? my amendment provide an opportunity to get the Government to explain why microchipping be a good idea but only for 90 % , not 100 % , of dog owner . amendment 9 would give the word " keeper " the same meaning in the Bill as it have under the Microchipping of Cats and Dogs ( England ) Regulations 2023 . again , that be a sensible and modest amendment . amendment 10 be a probe amendment to tease out from the Government what be happen in deal with cat abduction . when they set up their taskforce , it recommend that dog abduction should become the subject of the pet abduction legislation and that at some future stage reference to cat and other pet could be make . when I think of other pet , I think particularly of our old next - door neighbour — sadly , she have die — who be a great lover of tortoise and have lot of they . she be the subject of a cruel theft of her tortoise and I hope that in due course tortoise would come within the scope of this legislation , as they can do under the provision of clause 3 . I declare an interest , as a cat owner — my cat be call Hetty . part of the reason that cat have be provide for specifically in the Bill , a move I support , be the excellent campaign run by Cats Protection . the briefing I have receive from Battersea show that there be 379 pet cat theft in 2022 . I be not sure of the equivalent figure for tortoise , but I suspect it be a lot small . I suspect that the incidence of theft of tortoise be much high , if we look at the percentage of theft in the relative population . my hon . friend say there be only 379 case of cat theft , and my understanding be that there be 10 . 5 million cat , so if we work out the percentage of cat owner who find that they have be deprive of their cat , I suspect that it be much low than the percentage of tortoise owner who find that their tortoise have be abduct . however , I think what my hon . friend ' s point show be that , in the context of 10 . 5 million cat , 379 theft be hardly a really serious issue . he be a cat owner ; I be not — my family be dog lover , but the two be not necessarily incompatible . I recognise the importance of microchippe cat . obviously , this legislation will not get on to the statute book until after the microchipping of cat have become mandatory , and until there be criminal penalty if that be not comply with . I be proud to have visit the premise of the Cats Protection League in my constituency , in Ferndown , which be a very important centre for the rehoming of cat , and that be one of the great task that that important charity undertake . I be not against cat , but I table this amendment to test the Government ' s think . the original taskforce set up to look into these issue reach the conclusion that dog should take precedence , but the Government subsequently give way because of behind - the - scene lobby by interest group — not as a result of public consultation — and support the extension of the legislation to cat . the taskforce ' s advice be to start off with dog and then extend the measure to cat . all I be do be , in a sense , repeat what the taskforce say . the essence of my amendment 10 , 11 and so on be that they would enable cat to be include at a later stage under the provision of clause 3 , thereby bring the Bill into conformity with the recommendation of the pet abduction taskforce . if the government do not want to do that — I understand why they may not — then so be it , but I still think that be worth explore in debate . that be why I table the amendment , include amendment 13 , which be consequential on the removal of clause 2 , as be amendment 14 and 15 . the next amendment on the amendment paper be amendment 19 , in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Southend West , who promote the Bill . she say : " this be a technical amendment to ensure that it be clear how the commencement of clause 1 and 2 operate in so far as those clause extend to England and Wales ( rather than just in relation to England ) . " who could possibly object to that ? however , when back Benchers bring forward legislation and do not get it draft by Government lawyer , there be always something faulty with it , and Ministers delight in say at the Dispatch Box , " we agree with the intent , but the wording be inadequate . " the question I throw out for debate and discussion be this : why do the Government lawyer who draft the Bill for my hon . friend not get it right in the first place ? why do they leave it until so late in the day before insist that this amendment , and Amendment 20 , be include in the Bill ? when she address her amendment , I hope that she can explain the background to that situation . it show that instead of be all - know and beyond criticism , government drafter have some of the same frailty as member of the House when try to draft legislation , even with all the expertise that the Public Bill Office be able to bring to bear when assist we in that task . amendment 21 link back to my new clause 1 , which would make the commencement of the legislation contingent on the necessary guidance have be issue . from discussion I have with the ministerial team , it seem that be the intent , but the amendment would put that in the Bill . amendment 16 be consequential , and I have already refer to amendment 20 , in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Southend West . that be a quick run - through of the amendment . I hope it will generate a proper debate and discussion , and enable people who take an interest in the matter to become more familiar with the issue around microchipping , include the importance of ensure that cat and dog be microchippe , the burden on the enforcement authority , and the deterrence that microchippe provide against those who be minded to engage in the theft of pet . I hope those issue can be share more widely across the country . there be a lot more detail behind the Bill , but there be no need for I to go into any more of that at the moment . if the Government can not accept new clause 1 , I hope they will be able to provide undertaking that its measure will be implement voluntarily . I thank the hon . gentleman for pass on his condolence to Mr Speaker . as he say , Doug Hoyle be a great parliamentarian and a very kind person , who be always there with a ready smile and good advice to all of we . I pass on our condolence to Mr Speaker from the whole House . I be delighted to have another opportunity to speak about this important Bill , and to speak to amendment 19 and 20 , which be minor technical amendment in my name . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) for his interest in the matter . I hope he will forgive I when I say that his amendment seem to fall into two broad group : laudable concern about microchipping ; and legal issue about the offence as draft . I will start with my hon . friend ' s amendment concern microchippe . it be very clear that he have a great passion for ensure that keeper microchip their pet . I be sure that we can all get behind that as a general point ; that be a very responsible way for dog and cat owner to behave . Microchipping be a safe and reliable way of identify animal . whether they be find as stray , or whether , in keep with the topic of this debate , they be recover have be abduct , the microchip should be a lifeline to help they get home . that be obviously good for the animal and good for the keeper . I agree wholeheartedly with my hon . friend ' s wish to ensure that we be more responsible and that we encourage microchippe , although I do not agree with his try to lever those principle into the Bill . the microchipping of dog have be compulsory in England since 2016 , nine year ago . it have also be compulsory in Northern Ireland since 2012 . as he rightly point out , microchipping have be a success story : around 90 % of dog in the UK be already microchippe . there be also good evidence that microchippe work . the Government ' s recent post - implementation review of the Microchipping of Dogs ( England ) Regulations 2015 conclude that the introduction of the regulation have increase microchipping and reunification rate , with obvious benefit for animal welfare and pet owner . I be delighted that these benefit be soon to be extend to cat , through the Microchipping of Cats and Dogs ( England ) Regulations 2023 . I agree with my hon . friend when he say that all cat over 20 week in England will need to be microchippe from 10 June of this year , in a couple of month ' time , before — this be the key point — the Bill come into effect . indeed , already , more than 70 % of cat in the UK be microchippe ; the level be similar in England and Northern Ireland . the amendment that my hon . friend seek to make today be totally unnecessary , because we will be overtake by event in relation to the microchipping of cat . the effectiveness of microchippe relie on keeper ensure that the information on the microchip be up to date . that be what the police and the rescue centre need : accurate information to enable they to reunite the keeper with their animal swiftly and efficiently . as I keep say , I could not agree with my hon . friend more on the importance of that , but I do not think that it have anything to do with the Bill . I be sure that my hon . friend the Minister will want to go into more detail about way in which he intend to encourage more microchipping . I understand my hon . friend ' s motivation for his amendment 3 , 5 , and 8 to 16 to far incentivise compliance with microchipping , but as I have already make clear , there be a high level of compliance already , and further legislation be come down the track shortly . there be also an effective enforcement mechanism : where a dog in England be find not to have a microchip , police in local authority have the power to issue a notice . that notice will require the keeper to get that dog microchippe within 21 day . that will apply unless the dog have be certify as exempt from the microchipping , perhaps by reason relate to health , and it be an offence to fail to comply with that notice . a person would be liable for a fine of up to £ 500 , and the same regulatory regime will soon come into force and apply to cat . as I have say , these amendment be not necessary , because we will soon be overtake by event . however , far more importantly , amendment 3 , 5 , and 8 to 16 would restrict the scope of this Bill considerably . amendment 10 to 16 would remove cat from the Pet Abduction Bill entirely , as well as remove certain dog from the scope of the offence . I regard that as a very retrograde step indeed , and one that I would oppose entirely . this legislation have be a long time come . it have be very carefully consider by the pet theft taskforce , involve three Government Departments , and to seek to undermine it in this way be entirely wrong . will my hon . friend give way ? no , I will not give way . my hon . friend have a very long time to speak and I would like to get through my remark . cat be among the most beloved pet in the UK . there be around 11 million pet cat across the country , and a quarter of household have they . I must declare an immediate interest here , as I have two wonderful cat , Merlin and Marmalade , who be appal by these amendment , which would take they entirely out of the protection of the Bill . we hear impassioned story on Second read about the importance of cat to people and the heartache it would cause they if they be lose . we hear about Mrs Landingham , the cat of my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) , and Liesl von Cat , the cat of my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Jo Gideon ) . we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Dover ( Mrs Elphicke ) about her beloved ragdoll cat and we have of course hear about Cats Protections today . the " Cat Theft Report 2022 " from Pet Theft Awareness show that cat theft increase by 40 % in 2021 and more than quadruple between 2015 and 2022 . this be a grow problem . cat deserve the same protection as dog . will my hon . friend give way ? I have already say to my hon . friend that I will not give way at this point — at all ? oh — I will give way . I be grateful to my hon . friend for give way . it be a debate , and I wonder if instead of give percentage increase she could give put a figure on the number of cat theft . my hon . friend be right to suggest that it be small . it be a matter of hundred , not thousand . the point that I be make be that it be increase . I do not believe that cat deserve less protection . as we hear on Second reading from the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) , who be not in her place , bengal cat , which have a value of thousand of pound , be among the cat be steal . we can check Hansard , but from memory they might be worth as much as £ 5 , 000 . the number of cat may be small , but the value of the cat both to the owner and in actual fact be significant . my hon . friend be make a very good point . it be about not just number but the emotional impact on family . I declare an interest , as I lose a kitten at the age of four . it still come into my mind when I think about this Bill and how important it be . it have an emotional impact on my whole family . number do not give the full flavour of the impact on the community across the United Kingdom who be cat lover as well as dog lover . I be grateful to my hon . friend for that point . she be absolutely right . whether someone ' s cat be a mongrel , a rescue cat or a stray cat that they have rightly adopt and look after , or — I have just check Hansard — a £ 5 , 000 bengal cat , to the owner they be a member of the family , and they deserve the same protection . Merlin and Marmalade deserve exactly the same protection as my precious Cavapoochon , Lottie . the House of Commons Library helpfully prepare a brief for these debate and it refer to Pet Theft Awareness , which conduct freedom of information request across a number of force . some of the big force , include Greater Manchester and other , do not respond , but take the figure from the Metropolitan police and apply they at the same percentage rate , we get a figure of around 1 , 500 cat theft a year , rather than the 500 or so that be refer to . I be grateful to my hon . friend for bring that more accurate information to the Chamber and illustrate that we be talk about a figure in the thousand for cat , just as for dog . if we be to remove cat abduction from the Bill , as per the amendment from my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch , we would be send a clear message that cat do not matter as much as dog . that would be wholly wrong . it would certainly be meet with a great deal of resistance from my constituent in Southend West . while I be on the subject of cat , I would like to correct the record . it have come to my attention that , in Committee on Wednesday 31 January , respond to a question from my hon . friend the Member for Dover about indoor pedigree cat such as ragdoll , I inadvertently misspoke . when speak about extend some of the dog provision to hold indoor cat , I say that clause 3 should enable further provision to be make , but that be not the case . the enable power in the clause relate only to the abduction of animal commonly keep as pet other than dog and cat . I want to make that clear . however , as I say clearly in Committee , and as I assure hon . member then and now , clause 2 already apply in relation to the taking of a ragdoll cat . the amendment would exclude certain category of dog . although amendment 8 acknowledge that dog can temporarily be exempt from microchippe requirement for medical reason , it do not recognise that puppy do not have to be microchippe until they be eight week old . be the amendment to be accept , a person take or detain puppy would be entirely exempt from the offence of dog abduction , yet we know that high - value puppy may be the subject of organised crime . yesterday , I consult the police and crime commissioner for Essex , Roger Hirst , about the Bill , and he remind I — as an Essex MP , you may recall this case , Madam Deputy Speaker — that a litter of blue merle french bulldog puppy , value at £ 100 , 000 , in nearby Basildon be steal in its entirety , in a clear case of organised crime . to exclude puppy from the Bill would be another extremely retrograde step . the amendment would have the same effect in relation to dog that have be import into England by their keeper for a holiday of less than 30 day , as the 2023 regulation do not require they to be microchippe . it would also exclude certain work dog , such as police and Army dog , that do not have to be microchippe until they be three month old ; they would be unprotected before then . in addition , there be a risk in rely on a definition lay down in secondary legislation that be crucial to the interpretation of the Bill . there be a risk of unintended consequence in the application of the offence be the secondary legislation to be amend . furthermore , the Microchipping of Cats and Dogs ( England ) Regulations do not apply in Northern Ireland , which have its own microchipping legislation . as a result , if the amendment be make , the abduction of most dog in Northern Ireland would be exclude from the scope of the dog abduction offence — another backward step . it be important to recognise that the abduction offence in the Bill be deliberately frame around the broad concept of lawful control . by not use term like " keeper " or " owner " , the Bill recognise that different people have lawful control of our dog at different time . by change the wording as propose in amendment 3 , 5 and 9 , a person take a dog so as to remove it from the lawful control of a dog walker , for example , would not be commit an offence . I do not believe it be right for a dog to be afford different level of protection in law accord to the individual the dog happen to be with at any give time . we know that dog be commonly abduct from park or garden , when they may well be under the lawful control of a dog sitter , a dog walker , or another member of the family . why should a dog that be steal or abduct in those circumstance be deal with differently ? I do not believe that it should be , and think most people in this country would agree . in summary , I believe that abduct a dog be an abhorrent crime — I think we can all get behind that idea — regardless of whom the dog be take from , and exactly the same be true for cat . although I be of course sympathetic to the underlie intention of amendment 3 , 5 and 8 to 16 , they move the Bill far away from its intended spirit . we simply can not create a two - tier system in which only microchipped animal be in scope of the legislation . give that the legislation implicitly recognise that cat and dog be sentient being , it be absolutely not right for only those that be microchippe to be protect , so I urge my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch not to press those amendment . I will leave it to the Minister to address my hon . friend ' s new clause 1 and amendment 21 . let I address swiftly my hon . friend ' s amendment 1 , 6 and 7 , which fall into the broad basket of legal amendment . the explanatory statement to the amendment suggest that he be seek to ensure that the person allege to have commit an offence be not require to prove their innocence if they have a reasonable excuse or lawful authority for the act constitute the alleged offence . I be pleased to say again that he and I agree in principle : the burden in a criminal case should always rest on the prosecution — that be a well and long - establish principle of our english law — but , in my opinion , the Bill do just that . its drafting be such that the prosecution do bear , as usual , the burden of proof . what he be refer to be the fact that the Bill place an evidential burden on the defendant in relation to the defence of reasonable excuse or lawful authority , in that they need to produce sufficient evidence to raise that issue , but the burden of prove the offence remain fairly and squarely on the prosecution . my worry with the wording of the amendment be that they could introduce more uncertainty about the kind of burden that might be impose , and could impose more of a burden on the defendant . for those reason , I urge he not to press amendment 1 , 6 and 7 . I turn now to amendment 2 and 4 , which be also legal amendment . they seek to restrict the offence to situation where a dog be remove or detain permanently from a person ' s lawful control . the pet theft taskforce suggest an offence of pet abduction in order to move away from the formal ingredient need to prove theft , one of which be the intention to permanently deprive , because that be more difficult to prove in relation to pet . put that back into the Bill take we back to a place we want to move away from . again , I urge my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch to withdraw those amendment . finally , let I turn to my two minor technical amendment , 19 and 20 , to clause 6 . you will recall , Madam Deputy Speaker , that my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) table in Committee an amendment relate to the commencement , which be agree to , so the original Bill be change slightly . that be the main driver for my two minor technical amendment , which be practically stylistic in content . they intend to clarify the Bill ' s draft in respect of the commencement of clause 1 and 2 , which introduce the new offence of cat and dog abduction . the amendment confirm that those clause , so far as they extend to England and Wales , will come into force three month after the Bill receive Royal Assent . they also confirm that clause 1 and 2 , so far as they extend to Northern Ireland , will come into force on a date appoint in an order by the Department of Agriculture , Environment and Rural Affairs of Northern Ireland . for clarity , the amendment be stylistic and do not in any way change the policy of the Bill . I urge hon . member to support those minor clarification of the Bill . I rise to support the Bill of my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) and the amendment in her name , and to thank my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) for all the effort , thought and consideration he have put into the work he have do . as I mention , I lose my kitten when I be age four , when microchippe be not a thing — it be one of my most prominent childhood memory . it still stay with I , but if microchipping have be possible then , we might have find that kitten and come back together as a family . it be such an issue for a young girl — lose my very first pet — so I thank my hon . friend for all of his consideration . Microchipping be extremely important , as he say , and I be very glad that the Government will bring forward legislation in the near future . I wish to speak briefly about a role that I have over the past few year until recently — that of chair of the all - party parliamentary dog advisory welfare group . I praise and thank my hon . friend the Member for Southend West for take this Bill through Parliament . during my time as chair of that group , we be able to bring Lucy ' s law into legislation , and it make such a huge difference to animal lover right across the United Kingdom . I have chair a number of all - party parliamentary group , and that be one of the most popular that I ever chair : during the pandemic , up to 500 member attend the meeting online , and well over 100 people would attend every single meeting in Parliament itself . we must recognise that the UK be most definitely a country of dog lover . I also pay tribute to the local animal welfare sanctuary in Bothwell , just next to my constituency , which I visit very regularly . it cover the whole of South Lanarkshire , include my constituency , and I thank it for its work . when I chair the dog advisory welfare APPG , pet theft be a huge issue not only because , as my hon . friend the Member for Southend West say , some of the dog steal be extremely highly pedigreed and valuable , but because the fate of some of the dog be heinous . often , people be take the dog as bait for dog - fight purpose . the horrendous story that we hear in that appg underscore how vital it be that this legislation move forward . it be an excellent step forward , and I think it send a message to those who would try to abduct pet , particularly dog and cat , that it be not acceptable . we wish to underscore that , and this Government have a mandate to do so . before close , I wish to give my condolence to Mr Speaker for his loss . I do not have the privilege of personally know his father , but from my understanding , he have be a great servant to politic across both Houses . I want to pass on my condolence today , Madam Deputy Speaker . let I begin by say that Labour strongly support the measure to tackle pet theft and abduction , and I thank the hon . member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) again for introduce the Bill . let I also echo the comment about Doug Hoyle , and the condolence to Mr Speaker . much of the discussion in Committee be about timing — a subject that have come up again this morning — but I will start by address amendment that have already be discuss , particularly amendment 10 , which would effectively remove cat from the scope of the Bill . the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) seem to play an important role in this place on Fridays . along with some of my colleague , I have feel frustrated on occasion by the degree of challenge that he present , but I think it important for legislation to be properly challenge , so I thank he for the point that he have raise this morning , especially in relation to the amendment relate to dog , which open up a range of wide issue . I will not go through the amendment in detail one by one , because the hon . member for Southend West deal very effectively with many of those point and I find myself in agreement with she on all of they , but there be big issue involve in the way in which we register and track dog . all this be complicated , and I know from talk to vet in my shadow ministerial role that they worry about be drag into ownership dispute as a consequence . I think it be part of a wide discussion , and I be certainly not oppose to our have that discussion , but I agree with the hon . Lady that there be a danger of our be draw into delay and also into diminish the scope of the Bill , which I think would be disappointing . labour will therefore not support the amendment table by the hon . member for Christchurch . Amendment 10 , which relate to cat , strike I as something much more fundamental , and we oppose it strongly . as my colleague and I have argue throughout the long saga of this Bill and its predecessor , cat theft be a real issue . I note the discussion about number , but I suspect that there be a degree of under - reporting — the offence do not currently exist , so why would anyone report it ? those who advocate for cat be , unsurprisingly , appal by the prospect of the Bill ' s be savage in this way . Cats Protection tell I that " with 11 million own cat in the UK , we know how much cat mean to family and how devastating their theft be — both to the human who love they and the cat themselves . " it say : " in just a few week of run some supporter action , we have over 40 , 000 cat lover get involve in campaign for cat to be include in any pet theft legislation include over 10 , 000 letter to mps . it be imperative that cat be include in the Bill . " I be sure the hon . member for Christchurch will say that a campaign organisation make the case effectively do not necessarily lead to good law , but I think the point we can take from what it have say be that there be considerable public interest in the issue , and an expectation that action will be take . as for the microchippe issue that have be raise , I genuinely believe that they can be resolve . after all , we do not look at other theft offence and say that we will not tackle they because what be steal could not be microchippe . there be a particular irony in the discussion in Committee about time and whether the Bill could be implement within three month . I think Conservative member know exactly what I be go to say : this could have be do fully two year ago . we need not have be here today . this be yet another private Member ' s Bill that have appear as a result of the Government ' s abandonment of the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill . it seem to I that the real question about this Pet Abduction Bill be , " who abduct the keep animal Bill , and for what purpose ? " I have ask that question repeatedly but have never be give an answer , and I be certain that I will not be give one today . it be just another of those DEFRA mystery — like the mystery of how the Secretary of State come to override the advice of his permanent secretary , but that be one for another day . the Government ' s decision to ditch that major piece of animal welfare legislation have cause enormous disappointment to the animal welfare charity that have work so hard on it for year , to pet owner and to member of the public , all of whom care deeply about protect animal against cruelty . most importantly , of course , it have allow the mistreatment of animal to continue . we will never know how many animal might not have be abduct have this legislation be pass early — I be not the only person to have say that . the same point be make powerfully early this month in a report by the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee : " the Government ' s withdrawal of the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill stall progress on key animal welfare issue . these delay have allow the continuation of poor animal welfare practice . the Department must ensure that every provision from the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill be bring into force during the current Parliament . we welcome the introduction of private Members ’ bill that will take forward vital animal welfare measure , but note that the Government be rely heavily on member who be successful in the private Members ' bill ballot be willing to take on its handout bill to deliver its manifesto promise , rather than commit to bring forward the legislation itself . while on this occasion it may prove successful , it be nonetheless a risky strategy . " that be why we be here today , discuss this issue with a piece of legislation that , frankly , be at risk because of the process we be go through . there be no guarantee , give political uncertainty and the febrile nature of politic at the moment , that there will be time for the Bill to reach the statute book . the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee be right to make those observation , and it be deeply regrettable that , contrary to what the Government promise in their May 2021 action plan for animal , they have fail to take leadership in crack down on the rise rate of pet abduction . labour will not be support the amendment table by the hon . member for Christchurch , but I hope that the Bill can proceed intact to Third Reading and beyond . first , may I from the Government Benches send our condolence to Mr Speaker , who be unable to be here today because he be attend his father ' s funeral ? we send our sympathy to he . it be a pleasure to speak about this Bill , which be so important to many people . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) for his consider attention to the Bill , not only today but previously and in the meeting that I and my right hon . friend the Minister of State hold with he in consideration of the point he have bring to the House . I also thank he for his support of some of the measure that we be bring forward in the Bill . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) for her consider response and her contribution on Report . let I start by address amendment 1 , 6 and 7 . as be eloquently outline by my hon . friend the Member for Southend West , the Bill already make it clear that prosecutor bear the burden of proof . we want to create suitable offence that will crack down on case of dog and cat abduction , and I agree with my hon . friend ' s assessment that amendment 2 and 4 would undermine the scope for prosecution to be bring for the offence of dog and cat abduction . I , too , urge my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch to withdraw amendment 1 , 2 , 4 , 6 and 7 on the basis of the point that I have make and the contribution from my hon . friend the Member for Southend West . new clause 1 and amendment 3 , 5 , 8 , 9 , 10 , 16 and 21 have already be discuss . I commend the dedication of my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch to microchippe . I know he have a branch of Cats Protection in his constituency , as do my hon . friend the Member for North West Norfolk ( James Wild ) , who rightly contribute to this debate , state that Cats Protection have be instrumental in support the extension of the compulsory microchippe requirement to cat . I be pleased about both the extension and its support for this issue . from the first moment that an offence of dog abduction be introduce in this place , mp and stakeholder alike have ask for it to be extend to cat . the Department have receive a significant number of letter from the public and parliamentary question from right hon . and hon . member in support of this proposal . I agree with my hon . friend the Member for Southend West that the Government can not support remove cat from the scope of the Bill . however , I understand that the desire of my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch to remove cat from the scope of the Bill be guide by the laudable intention of incentivising microchipping . I be pleased that we very much agree on the importance of microchipping , which be the good way to reunite people with lose and abducted animal . the Government make microchippe compulsory for dog in England in 2016 , and we be now extend the benefit of that legislation to cat . from 10 June , all own cat in England over the age of 20 week must be microchippe and register on a compliant database . Microchipping be a safe , simple and effective procedure . the average cost be £ 25 , plus an average £ 10 registration over the lifetime of the animal . Microchipping undeniably help to bring displace pet home . in the UK , around 90 % of dog have be microchippe . in 2023 , more than 70 % of cat have already be voluntarily microchippe . our post - implementation review of the Microchipping of Dogs ( England ) Regulations 2015 — the predecessor to the 2023 regulation — show that this legislation have have a positive effect on reunification rate . Stray dog that have be microchippe and have up - to - date database record be more than twice as likely to be reunite with their keeper than stray dog without a microchip . Police and local authority can and do issue notice require a dog to be microchippe where it be not already . that have be demonstrate to be an effective mechanism to support compliance . since we introduce the english compulsory cat microchipping legislation , we have be work closely with a number of animal welfare stakeholder to develop a co - ordinate communication campaign to explain to cat owner the benefit of microchipping and the new legal requirement . last summer , we even enlist the support of our chief mouser Larry the cat , who himself be once an un - microchippe stray , before be take in and rehome by Battersea Dogs and Cats Home . Larry ' s tweet on International Cat Day , explain the importance of microchippe for reunite pet with their owner , receive half a million impression . I be also grateful to stakeholder who have help to spread the message at the start of our 100 - day countdown campaign to the introduction of these measure . with just over 50 day to go before the 10 June deadline , we be ramp up our communication strategy with stakeholder for that final push . I urge anyone who have not yet microchippe their cat to do so as quickly as possible . our communication around the new cat microchippe rule , as well as around this Bill , will provide a clear message that microchipping will help bring abducted pet back home soon . however , compulsory cat microchipping be just one of a number of plan microchippe reform . last month , we publish our response to the consultation on english pet microchipping reform . we be commit to a number of improvement to the microchippe regime around three theme : first , make it easy for approve user to access record ; secondly , improve the accuracy of record ; and thirdly , standardise database operator process . those reform will implement one of the key recommendation of the pet theft taskforce that more robust process should be in place to stop steal pet be register to new keeper by ensure that the current keeper have up to 28 day to object to a transfer of keepership request make to a database operator before any transfer can go through , and by prevent database operator from create a duplicate microchip record for a pet . we be also make all database operator record whether a pet be report as miss . that will assist enforcement body and flag concern to a database operator , should they receive a transfer of keepership request . we be look to legislate specifically to deal with that issue in due course . my hon . friend the Member for Southend West have eloquently outline how the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch would overly restrict the Bill , and the Government can not support they . my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch rightly make some point on guidance in his new clause 1 and amendment 21 and ask for statutory guidance to be issue by the Secretary of State . I agree that guidance will be essential for frontline worker enforce new pet abduction offence , ensure that those be use appropriately . the Government be commit to work with key stakeholder to ensure that appropriate guidance relate to this Bill will be available before the Bill ' s offence come into force . the cross - Government pet theft taskforce already establish relationship with police officer , operational partner and animal welfare organisation work in the area , so we have a network already in place , and I can confirm that conversation be already under way . I will ensure that the point that my hon . friend have rightly raise be part of the conversation that be already under way . enforcer will have the support and information they need to effectively implement the legislation once it come into force without the need to legally require enforcement guidance . I know that my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch be concerned about people benefit from the legislation when they have shirk their responsibility to have their pet microchippe . I assure the House that we be do work with police colleague to make they aware that , in the event that they recover an abducted cat or dog that be not microchippe , they have the power to issue a notice under the English microchipping regulation require those pet to be microchippe within 21 day . for completeness , fail to comply with such a notice be an offence and subject to a fine of £ 500 . in addition , the Microchipping of Cats and Dogs ( England ) Regulations 2023 provide for the police to be able to take the animal in question to be microchippe without the keeper ' s consent , and allow the cost associate with that to be recover . the enforcement regime for the english microchipping legislation be design to ensure that an animal will end up be microchippe if it be find not to be . we understand that most people comply with such a notice where issue , so only a small number of such case be take through the court . in addition to the exist enforcement mechanism , we be consider enable penalty notice for the offence of not microchippe a cat or dog through the Animal ( Penalty Notices ) ( England ) Regulations 2023 . in summary , I can not , therefore , commit that we will work — [ interruption . ] I be sorry ; I can commit — I want to reiterate that — that we will be work closely with enforcement partner to ensure that my hon . friend ' s concern be address . we be work at speed to prepare for this engagement . on the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Southend West , I thank she for bring forward these minor , technical adjustment to the Bill . the Government support they and agree that their clarity help to progress the Bill , specifically in relation to clause 1 and 2 . I urge all hon . member to support they . with the leave of the House , I will respond to the debate . we have make great progress , and I be grateful to my hon . friend the Minister for facilitate that . my amendment — particularly amendment 10 to 15 — be design to address the problem of potential waste of police and local authority enforcement resource in try to trace pet that have not be microchippe . my hon . friend , in say what he do about the guidance and advice that will be give to enforcement authority , get to the core of my concern . it have never be my intention to be anti - cat . my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) suggest that I do not think that cat matter . I will not put myself into a category where cat do not matter , because I have enough email come in already on other issue . [ laughter . ] cat do matter , and so do dog — and , for the sake of completeness , so do tortoise . I have never be against include cat in the Bill , but I have be nervous about do so when many cat be still not microchippe . from 10 June , that will be compulsory and , as the Minister say , there will be strong enforcement measure . give the number of local authority issue notice , I do not think they be apply their mind to it , but perhaps when they link that in with the prospect of complaint if cat have be abduct , they will realise that there be a strong link between the two issue . I hope that the consequence of all this debate will be that we have a much well , more complete database , and that more cat and even more dog will be microchippe . have a million - plus dog not microchippe at the moment be unacceptable . one can not always say on a Friday that we have make progress , but I think that we have on this issue . in the light of that , I beg to ask leave to withdraw new clause 1 . clause , by leave , withdraw . clause 6 - Commencement Amendments make : 19 , page 5 , line 6 , leave out " come into force in relation to England " and insert " , so far as they extend to England and Wales , come into force " . this be a technical amendment to ensure that it be clear how the commencement of clause 1 and 2 operate in so far as those clause extend to England and Wales ( rather than just in relation to England ) . amendment 20 , page 5 , line 11 , leave out " in relation " and insert " so far as they extend " . — ( Anna Firth . ) this be a technical amendment to ensure that the commencement of clause 1 and 2 be deal with in the same way throughout clause 6 . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . may I put on the record , on behalf of everybody in Southend West , our condolence to Mr Speaker and his family on the loss of his esteemed father , Doug Hoyle ? I be delighted to present this Bill for its Third Reading . I be grateful to all member who have engage so passionately and share their story at all stage , and I will keep my remark as brief as I can so that other member can get in . I will start , as I do on Second Reading , by take a moment to reflect on my predecessor , Sir David Amess , who be a true titan when it come to champion our pet , particularly dog . as I mention on Second Reading , he chair and speak in the last debate that we have in this place on pet reform , and I know that he would be so proud that Southend West be play a pivotal role in bring forward this legislation . I , too , be proud to be build on his legacy again today . when I introduce the Bill , I start by say that Britain be a nation of animal lover and that pet be part of our family . I believe that our discussion , both today and at all previous stage , have illustrate that perfectly . we be show that cat and dog be not just item , and that abduct they cause real distress to family and individual , because action speak far louder than word . this Bill will send a signal that we take animal welfare seriously in the UK . one wonderful thing about the House be that we be often united when it come to issue of animal welfare . we be unite in send a signal to the world that we believe in , and be proud of , our record on animal welfare . of course , I have lot of people to thank . I thank the people who have make significant contribution in this area over many year , include my right hon . friend the Members for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) and for Witham ( Priti Patel ) ; my hon . friend the Members for Stroud ( Siobhan Baillie ) , for Dartford ( Gareth Johnson ) and for Ipswich ( Tom Hunt ) ; the former Lord Chancellor and Secretary of State for Justice , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) , with whom I be at Bar school ; my hon . friend the Member for Dover ( Mrs Elphicke ) ; Dr Daniel Allen ; and Debbie Matthews , the daughter of the late Sir Bruce Forsyth . I thank the many organisation that have give input and support , include the Conservative Animal Welfare Foundation , which be so ably lead by Chris and Lorraine Platt ; the Stolen and Missing Pets Alliance ; Pet Theft Awareness ; Cats Protection , which we have hear about again today ; the Dogs Trust ; Battersea Dogs and Cats Home ; Refuge ; and of course Southend ' s own Tilly ' s Angels , which prompt I to take this Bill on board . I also thank the brilliant Essex police , fire and crime commissioner , Roger Hirst , for his help and support , and , more importantly , for all that he do to tackle pet abduction in Essex . tackle pet abduction , in particular dog theft , be a key objective in his police and crime plan . as a result of his focus and the extra resource he deploy , we have see a 10 % reduction in the dog theft figure over the past year . he do fantastic work . if anyone in Essex want to help he to keep fight pet abduction , they will have the opportunity to do so on 2 May . I want to emphasise the timely nature of the Bill . since Second Reading , new figure have be release by Direct Line show a 6 % uptick in the number of dog abduct in the past year , with only one in six find and return . that be the low recovery level since 2015 . those figure should concern we all , because of the number of pet who be traumatise and separate from their owner , most of they permanently . family be go without a beloved member of the family . as I have say throughout , that be exactly what our pet be . we have also see distress article in my local paper about attempt pet abduction , which also seem to be on the rise . only last month , my local paper , the brilliant Southend Echo , carry an article about two thug in Benfleet who jump out of their van and hit a pensioner over the head with a lump of wood in an attempt to force he to hand over his beloved cocker spaniel . thankfully , the pensioner incur only minor injury and the dog be unharmed , but he be obviously deeply shake . this week , there have be a report of another incident in Benfleet ; a man be attack by two man in Woodside Park who be attempt to steal his dog . those report underline how important it be that we get the Bill on the statute book , and that the police start take action to enforce it . these really be shocking incident , and I implore all hon . and right hon . member to back the Bill . pet need to be recognise in law for the sentient being they be . their place in society need to be properly recognise by the law of the land . the Bill be the opportunity to do that . I hope all member support it . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) on her work on the Bill , which be much need , and I be very pleased to speak in favour it . we be a nation of dog and cat owner , and many member will be able to say that those animal be like family , and to speak about the fact that they play such an important role in our life and the life of our child . I do not know where Marmalade and Merlin come from , the newly famous Southend West resident , but Magic and Ninja come from Cats Protection , which have have so many mention today . I know , through Magic and Ninja , what an impact cat can have on family , in particular child . in Milton Keynes , we have an abundance of green space , with mile and mile of lake shoreline and canal towpath — ideal for walk dog . if you need to walk a dog , come to Milton Keynes . but that bring with it the add risk of pet theft . as an animal lover , and the representative of a beautiful constituency in which to walk the dog , I have to say that the very idea of steal pet , often for profit and breeding , be sick . the Bill fill a gap that have exist in law for far too long . until now , pet theft be categorise as a type of property theft . that be in no way reflective of the nature of the crime and its impact on victim . we speak briefly about the link with organised crime . it be increasingly worry that , like other type of theft , such as the theft of farm machinery and prestige vehicle , pet theft seem to be do to order by gang of organise criminal . the supply chain of organised crime be obviously horrendous . to think that pet theft be finance it be abhorrent . in Milton Keynes and the wide Thames Valley , our rural crime taskforce have recently be nearly double in size , which will be a significant comfort to the many legitimate breeder base in our village . I applaud our police and crime commissioner , Matthew Barber , for make that decision . it be critical that the punishment for this crime be enough to deter individual and group from engage in this despicable criminal activity . the Bill ensure exactly that ; I applaud my hon . friend the Member for Southend West and the Government for the work that they have do to develop it so far . under the legislation , offender will face the possibility of up to five year in prison , a fine or both . the spectre of such punishment should have the desire effect . organised crime group profit particularly from the trade in pedigree cat , but such group will think twice about offend , should the Bill become law . the Bill address difference in the behaviour of dog and cat really well . dog spend much more time indoor than cat . try keep cat indoor . they tend to roam outside freely , at their own will , visit neighbour — " six Dinner Sid " spring to mind . the Bill understand that distinction , and ensure that for cat , the offence apply only when a cat be take , not when it be detain . that will mean police can focus on case of clear criminality without undue interference . he be no long in his place , but my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) raise concern about police time ; this aspect of the legislation go some way to ease those concern . this be sensible and practical law - making . the new offence mean that we can start to record the crime with well accuracy . as we have hear , some force record these crime specifically , and other do not . we will be able to spot pattern that could be link to certain factor , such as organised crime . this Conservative Government can be proud of their achievement on animal welfare . the Bill will widen the scope of the Government ' s action plan on animal welfare . it be another step forward in put the UK at the forefront of animal welfare globally . toughen the country ' s law against animal cruelty be a key priority . that be why we have already pass legislation such as the Animal Welfare ( Sentencing ) Act 2021 , which raise the maximum sentence for animal cruelty from six month to five year , and the landmark Animal Welfare ( Sentience ) Act 2022 , which become law two year ago and formally recognise animal as sentient being in domestic law . the Bill almost act as a strong - arm extension of that Act . pet be sentient being , whom we have to love and cherish as our own . we need law that recognise that fact and , crucially , protect they . in that regard , this Government have deliver and then some . our progress on animal welfare do not stop there . we have also pass legislation require the microchipping of cat , as we hear from the Minister ; cat owner must microchip their cat by June this year . that will make it easy to pick up cat that have be abduct , and to identify stray pet , so that they can be reunite with their owner . it be always a pleasure to speak in support of Bills that have clear cross - party support and cut through party political battle line . issue such as these remind we of the common ground we have in this place , and that we can put party politic aside to make progress on area of policy such as animal welfare , which matter to million of people across the country . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) on her work on this Bill . she have work tirelessly on this issue , and I have be pleased to support she at every stage , include by serve on the Public Bill Committee . we be a nation of animal lover . as the owner of three dog — I will not name they again , as they be already extensively record in Hansard — I can say that this Bill provide we all with great confidence that those who would seek to steal our beloved pet will pay the price . our pet be not just possession , as the law have previously treat they . in the Bill , we be acknowledge the important relationship we all have with our pet , who be cherish member of our family . the theft of a pet be an incredibly distressing experience , for both the pet and its owner , so it be no surprise that the vast majority of the public support make pet theft a specific offence . my constituency postbag regularly contain correspondence from constituent who have concern about animal welfare , be it puppy smuggling , dog - on - dog attack or the theft of a beloved family pet — an issue that the Bill address . I have yet to meet anyone who do not acknowledge that the theft of a family pet would cause far more pain and anguish than that of a wallet , purse or phone . pet simply have far more than simply monetary value to we , and it be right that the law seek to acknowledge that , and mark they out as different from inanimate object . in prepare for today ' s debate , I check with Durham police on the rate of pet theft in their area , and be pleased to learn that it have fall significantly , from 66 record theft in 2019 to only nine in 2023 . although I welcome that reduction , nine be still many , and this Bill will send out a real signal to far address the issue . although Durham have have a welcome reduction in such theft , part of our country sadly still see worrying level of pet theft . pet will be steal purely for the selfish retention of the animal , deprive the family it belong to of the pet ' s companionship , and inflict a sense of loss . alternatively , pet may be steal for onward sale , breed or fighting . whatever the reason for a theft , it be unlikely that the place the animal end up in will be well than the love home it have be take from . the Bill must be see in the context of the wide range of animal protection legislation we have enact , which recognise animal sentience ; increase sentence for animal cruelty ; give new protection to service animal ; revamp local authority licensing ; implement Lucy ' s law ; ban third - party puppy and kitten sale ; and mandate microchippe for cat and dog . of course , we must also not forget the Bill , which I be proud to support , buy forward by my hon . friend the Member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) to deal with puppy , kitten and ferret smuggling . in conclusion , our pet be our constituent ' dearest companion and most loyal friend , and we need a specific offence with specific penalty for their theft . I wholeheartedly support this Bill , and look forward to it complete its remain stage today . while we earnestly await a statement from the Government on the israeli strike against Iran last night , I want to take the opportunity to pay full tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) for her wonderful work on this Bill . it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) , who mention that he have read the name of his three pet into Hansard . if he be like most of we , he will now have send each pet a copy of Hansard so that they know they be mention , and we hope that go down well with they . I will come on to praise my hon . friend the Member for Southend West at the end , but perhaps I may briefly tell the House about some other people who I know will be very pleased to see this legislation pass in the House today . let I begin with a great friend , my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , who , unfortunately , be detain on other important business today . the issue before we have always be close to his heart . he have have some horror story from his constituency about pet theft , so I know that he , a former leader of our party , will be delighted at my hon . friend ' s success with this Bill . next be our very proactive and hard - work police , fire and crime commissioner in Essex , Mr Roger Hirst , who take this issue very seriously , ably support by our dynamic chief constable , Mr Harrington — perhaps his dynamism be due in part to the fact that he use to be a paratrooper . between they , they have ensure that Essex police be now fully integrate into the national pet taskforce , tackle crime through the review of all investigation , the introduction of a proactive ability to respond to intelligence and join - up work with partner , include crimestopper , the RSPCA and DogWatch . as a practical example , my hon . friend the Member for Southend West tell I that this proactive approach be put into action early this year when police release footage of the dachshund , Twiglet , struggle to get away from a thief . with help from the public , the police be able to return Twiglet safely home to her family . I will allow my hon . friend to send Twiglet the Hansard . I declare an interest . in my boyhood , I have a pet dachshund call Tiger — my parent have a sense of humour , Madam Deputy Speaker . I love that little dog dearly . when I tell he that I be take he out for a walk , he go completely banana . I have fond memory of Tiger and , if he be still with we , he , too , would be delighted . unfortunately , he have pass away , so there be no one to send the Hansard to . I also thank the Conservative Animal Welfare Foundation , of which my hon . friend and I be avid supporter , brilliantly lead by Lorraine and Chris Platt and their team , who be absolutely passionate about animal welfare — the clue be in the name . they , too , will be delighted that this legislation be go through . finally , I know that our great friend Sir David Amess would have be delighted to see this day . David , as the whole House well know , be passionate about animal welfare . one of his great skill , as you will know , Madam Deputy Speaker , be work cross - party ; it be form coalition for the common good . I look up at his plaque and across to that of Jo Cox , who also die in the service of this House . she once say that we have more in common . this be a nation of animal lover and what my hon . friend have do brilliantly today be to get cross - party support . she have motivate that sense of have more in common across the House to do something that will make animal safe . they can not speak for themselves ; we must do it in their lieu . she have do brilliantly , and she have another win recently on ban zombie knife . I will , if I may , be presumptuous and say that , if David be still with we and somehow my hon . friend be still the MP , he would be very proud of what she have do today . she be turn out to be an incredibly worthy successor to my great friend and she have come up with an incredibly worthy piece of legislation . I and member across the House wish her Bill godspeed . I echo what my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) have say about Sir David . like other member , I strongly welcome this legislation . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) on her work . I be pleased that her Bill have make it to this stage , with wide - range support in North West Norfolk and , obviously , across the country . the Bill introduce new criminal offence in relation to the taking or detaining of a dog or cat from the lawful control of any person . as I mention in an intervention , I declare an interest as the owner of a cat , Hetty , and I pay tribute again to the Cat Protection League for its successful campaign , which I support , to ensure that cat be in the Bill , in clause 2 , along with dog . someone find guilty of abduct a dog or a cat under these new offence will be liable to a maximum of five year imprisonment , a fine , or both , which be a significant step forward and align with animal cruelty offence cover by the Animal Welfare Act 2006 . I be pleased that the Bill include an enable power to allow these provision to be extend to other animal commonly keep as pet — a bid have be make for tortoise already in the debate . pet be steal for many reason : because of the breakdown of relationship , or for breeding , resale , extortion or even dog fighting . those theft have a traumatic effect on the owner and the pet , so it be right that pet theft be tackle through the creation of specific offence . the origin of the Bill be in the work of the pet theft taskforce , which recommend the creation of the specific offence of pet abduction , which be be implement through this legislation , because the Theft Act itself be not prove effective . there have be discussion during the debate about the scale of the problem . the taskforce conclude that reliable datum on pet theft be limited . the most accurate figure that I could find for my area , Norfolk , be through an FOI response from Norfolk police , which show that , between 2019 and 2023 , 40 cat and 85 dog be record as steal . overall , Battersea report around 1 , 300 dog theft and nearly 400 cat theft in 2022 . that be likely to be significantly underreporte , for obvious reason . as my hon . friend the Member for Southend West mention , it be about the individual case ; there do not need to be ten of thousand of case for this to be important legislation . however , I welcome the Bill ' s intention to improve the recording and monitoring of these offence . when we legislate and pass important power such as these , it be important that they come into effect rapidly , so I welcome the amendment that my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) secure in Committee , which set a date for the legislation to come into effect three month after Royal Assent . in 2019 , the manifesto that I be proud to stand on committed to improve animal welfare standard , and this Bill deliver on that commitment . as a nation of animal lover with a proud history of championing and take action on animal welfare , the Government have already pass a host of measure , include CCTV become mandatory in slaughterhouse , compulsory microchipping and tough sentence for animal cruelty . to conclude , around a third of household own a dog , and a quarter of household have a cat . we need to protect these family member , and this legislation do just that . I therefore commend my hon . friend for her hard work in bring the Bill forward , and I look forward to support it through its final stage . I call the shadow Minister . let I reiterate how strongly we in Labour support these measure . I again thank the hon . member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) for bring the Bill forward . I also echo her comment , and those of other , about Sir David Amess . I think he absolutely would have be thrill to see this legislation go forward today . I would also echo the hon . Lady ' s comment about the many animal welfare charity that work so hard on this and provide such excellent briefing . again , I think they too will be very pleased to see the legislation go forward . as have be say , we be a nation of animal lover . pet be very much a cherished part of our family . we know that companion animal be sentient being who can experience pain , fear and distress , just as we can , and we can all imagine — some member have speak passionately about it today — the heartbreak that be experience by any pet owner when their beloved animal be abduct . yet — we talk about the number early — the Kennel Club estimate that there be 2 , 355 case of dog theft in 2020 , amount to approximately 196 dog steal every month . as we have hear , cat be also increasingly victim of this crime , with a report by Pet Theft Awareness find that , in 2021 , police record a 40 % increase , and a quadrupling since 2015 . as we have hear throughout this process , the law , as it currently stand , be ill - equipped to deal with the problem . under the Theft Act 1968 , pet be wrongly treat as inanimate object . their value be diminish to that of physical property , like a tv or a toaster , and that can not be allow to continue . that be why the pet theft taskforce recommend in 2021 that a new offence of pet abduction be create — a new kind of offence that would put the emphasis on the welfare of the animal abduct and pay due regard to their status as sentient being . that be what the Bill do , with those two new criminal offence of dog abduction and cat abduction attract up to five year imprisonment , a fine , or both , to deter those who be look to exploit animal for financial gain by steal they from their owner and sell they , or use they for breed . through the creation of those specific offence , pet owner will now have a clear legal framework by which they can ensure that their case be actively investigate . create those specific offence will also require police to collate well datum , allow any pattern emerge to be properly analyse . collate more accurate datum will help to formulate the good prevention strategy . I be delighted that we have manage to ensure that cat be cover as well as dog . with compulsory microchipping , it should soon be much easy for anyone attempt to ascertain whether a cat be own or lose to establish those detail . I be also pleased that there be an enable power , so that the appropriate national authority may create pet abduction offence in respect of more specie of animal where there be significant evidence of incident involve the unlawful taking or detaining of animal of that specie , or a significant increase in the number of such incident . I note in pass that the amendment be a sensible , simple future - proof provision , like the amendment we propose to the Animal Welfare ( Livestock Exports ) Bill , which go through this House early this year , but which the Government choose to reject . although we welcome the Bill , the Government have fall far short of the lofty claim on animal welfare that they trumpet at the last election . there have be none of the promise action to stop british farmer be undercut by low - welfare import — a huge issue for famer , consumer and animal welfare , which the Government have ignore . indeed , when I challenge the Prime Minister at Prime Minister ' s question this week , he actually cite some of the trade deal as thing to be proud of — quite incredible , give the damage we know they will do . there have be no implementation of promise regulation ban electric shock collar for cat and dog , no sign of the promise consultation on ban snare , and no action on ban hunt trophy import , which be why last month another private Member ' s Bill be before the House , this one promote by my right hon . friend the Member for Warley ( John Spellar ) , seek to do exactly what the Government promise in their 2019 manifesto . I could go on — you will not want I to , Madam Deputy Speaker — but so many promise make by the Government in their 2019 manifesto and their 2021 action plan for animal have be abandon for no good reason , but only to avoid more split in an already divide conservative party . labour believe in introduce the strong possible legal protection for animal that depend entirely on we . I be proud that it be a Labour Government who bring in the landmark Animal Welfare Act 2006 — still this nation ' s lead piece of animal welfare legislation . I be proud that be be a Labour Government who ban cosmetic testing on animal , end fur farming and stop the hunting of wild mammal with dog . if we be fortunate enough to form the next government , we will advance that proud legacy by promote the high standard of animal welfare , not only for cat and dog but for all animal . in the meantime , we will continue to support private member ' Bills , include this one . I be pleased to speak again on this important Bill . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) for expertly guide the Bill through the House . she have be a passionate advocate of measure to improve animal welfare , and I congratulate she on introduce this important piece of legislation . give how strongly the late Sir David Amess champion animal welfare cause , it be especially poignant that it be my hon . friend who have champion this Bill . Sir David express the hope that this place would come together to enable animal welfare Bills to get on to the statute book quickly , and I think he would have be delighted to see this Bill get this far . to say that we be a nation of pet and animal lover be an understatement . More than half of all adult own at least one pet . cat and dog be the firm favourite , with at least 29 % and 24 % of adult own a dog or cat respectively . whether it be Joe or Pip , the sheepdog who help I on my farm , or harvey the cat , who belong to Max in my team , I assure the House that my team and I be also animal lover . my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes North ( Ben Everitt ) be right to say how important the Bill be , alongside reference how beautiful his constituency be for dog walker . my hon . friend the Member for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) be another strong animal lover , and I shall have to read his comment in Hansard about the various pet he have owe . I be pleased to see that he too welcome the Bill , as do my hon . friend the Member for North West Norfolk ( James Wild ) , who I know have work closely with Cats Protection to ensure that the Bill work its way through this House . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) for , quite rightly , mention our right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , who have champion the Bill . I be pleased to hear that Twiglet be reunite with its owner . the coronavirus pandemic in 2020 lead to many household decide to buy or adopt new pet in their home , many for the first time . those pet help to provide owner with emotional support during those difficult time . as we have hear , it be in that period that there be concern about increase in pet theft . the Government ' s response be to set up the pet theft taskforce . the Bill build on the work do by the pet theft taskforce in 2021 . it act on one of its key recommendation — to deliver a pet abduction offence — and it help to improve the recording of unlawful taking of cat and dog . . in 2021 , the Government make a commitment to crack down on pet theft in our action plan on animal welfare . our support for the Bill demonstrate that commitment . we far strengthen the Bill by accept the amendment from my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) in Committee , which add a commencement date for England . we have say it before and I will say it again : the unlawful taking of a pet be an abhorrent crime , and it be right that the perpetrator be bring to justice . the Bill recognise that . we have give the Bill a thorough review , not only on Report but through all its stage . I can not thank right hon . and hon . member enough for their engagement and support . I be delighted with the support of member of the House , and I look forward to see the Bill on the statute book very soon . with the leave of the House , I thank everyone here for their contribution to the debate , and I extend that thank to member who be unable to be here but who contribute to past debate . in particular , I thank those who attend Second Reading and / or Committee stage , include the hon . member for West Ham ( Ms Brown ) , for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) , for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) , for Canterbury ( Rosie Duffield ) and for Selby and Ainsty ( Keir Mather ) ; my right hon . friend the Members for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) and for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) ; my right hon . and learn Friends the Members for North East Hertfordshire ( Sir Oliver Heald ) and for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) ; and my hon . friend the Members for Dover ( Mrs Elphicke ) , for Mid Norfolk ( George Freeman ) , for Bury North ( James Daly ) , for Wolverhampton North East ( Jane Stevenson ) , for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Jo Gideon ) and for West Dorset ( Chris Loder ) — and I of course thank my hon . friend the Member for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) . it really have be a huge cross - party effort . I would like to echo the thank to those who have speak today . it have be wonderful to hear many of the point that we talk about at length on Second Reading refresh , echo and underline so ably . to my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes North ( Ben Everitt ) , I give my regard to Magic and Ninja . I thank he for remind we again of " six Dinner Sid " and the beauty of his constituency . my hon . friend the Member for North West Norfolk ( James Wild ) , who be such an able advocate for cat , remind we of the figure from Cats Protection . I thank my hon . friend — I hope I can pronounce the constituency correctly — the Member for East Kilbride , Strathaven and Lesmahagow ( Dr Cameron ) — [ interruption . ] almost . I thank she for speak so movingly on Report about cat and their sentience , and her experience with her kitten . it will stay with I for a long time . my hon . friend the Member for Darlington be such a true animal lover and have back the Bill right from the beginning . with uncharacteristic modesty , he do not mention Clemmie , Peppy and Ebony today , but please send my regard to they . finally , I thank very much my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) for come today and for everything he say , include the wonderful tribute to my predecessor . I can not help but think of the saying that people sometimes become like their pet . he mention that he have a dachshund call Tiger , and the way he champion his cause in this place bring that magnificent beast to mind . be my hon . friend say I be like he because he be tiger - like or because he be small ? I be of course be nothing but wholly complimentary . it be about the strength , tenaciousness and effectiveness with which my right hon . friend make his point — and that killer blow he so often bring to mind with his advocacy . of course , I must thank my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) for his interest in this matter , for campaign on microchipping and for the progress that we have make on that today . equally , I thank the Opposition for their support , particularly the hon . member for Cambridge ( Daniel Zeichner ) . I think back to all the stage of this brilliant cross - party cause for which he have be with we . in that spirit , I would like to take a photograph to celebrate this groundbreaking legislation leave the Commons , and I invite everybody who want to take part to Westminster Hall at 2 . 40 pm — everybody be absolutely welcome . I thank the Clerks and the DEFRA official for their advice , and the excellent team in my office , who have work so hard to make this happen . of course , special thank go to my constituency neighbour and comptroller of his Majesty ' s Household , my hon . friend the Member for Castle Point ( Rebecca Harris ) , who be also a huge animal lover . without her advice , we would not have get this and so many other private member ' bill to this stage so swiftly . she be both the queen and the unsung hero of our sit Fridays — I be not sure you can be both , but she manage it . I thank Lord Black of Brentwood for make the Bill a truly Essex affair by agree to take it through the other place . it will be in an incredibly safe pair of hand . I can not help but observe that where Southend and Essex lead , the nation so often follow . once again , I thank everybody . animal welfare unite this House . I look forward to the House send a clear message that the abhorrent crime of pet abduction will not be tolerate and need to come to an end ; pet be so much more than just a piece of personal property . through the Bill , I hope that that day come very soon . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . Building Societies Act 1986 ( amendment ) Bill Consideration of Bill , not amend in the Public Bill Committee Clause 1 - the funding limit : fund to be disregard I beg to move amendment 2 , page 2 , line 9 , leave out from " ( 9B ) " to end of line 11 and insert " may not be make unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before , and approve by a resolution of each House of Parliament . " this amendment change the procedure that apply to an SI contain regulation under new subsection ( 9B ) of section 7 of the Building Societies Act 1986 ( insert by the Bill ) so that it be subject to the affirmative procedure . with this it will be convenient to discuss amendment 1 , page 2 , line 10 , leave out from " to " to end of line 11 and insert " approval by both Houses of Parliament " . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker . the variety of Bills be in the strange nature of this place . we be go from the warm and fluffy Bill that we have just discuss , which I be delighted have receive its Third Reading , to what be rather a dry bill — but an important one none the less . amendment 2 , which stand in my name , change the procedure that apply to statutory instrument relate to propose new subsection ( 9B ) to section 7 of the Building Societies Act 1986 . they will be subject to the affirmative procedure , rather than to the negative procedure as the Bill currently state . I table the amendment after talk to colleague on both side of the House . on reflection , it provide for close scrutiny of the potential change that could be make via secondary legislation under the Bill . the amendment do not change the immensely positive effect that I believe the Bill will have on the building society sector by bring it in line with current practice , nor do it change the Bill ' s aim , which will , in my view , enormously improve opportunity for people to get on the housing ladder . the result of the Bill will be a well landscape for first - time buyer , and the amendment just improve scrutiny . I rise very much to support amendment 2 in the name of the hon . member for Sunderland Central ( Julie Elliott ) . I be grateful to she for effectively take forward my amendment 1 , which we be tell be defective because , although it would achieve exactly the same purpose , it do not use the normal wording that government drafter like . after some discussion , it be agree by the hon . Lady and the Minister that it be sensible to use the affirmative procedure in relation to these delegate power , and that affirmative procedure be now reflect in amendment 2 . it could have be reflect in amendment 1 , but what be important be the substance of the matter . these be potentially very significant change that could be make , and if they be to be make , it be important that they be open to proper scrutiny . as we know , the negative procedure do not really enable proper scrutiny . as an example , Madam Deputy Speaker , you will recall that legislation be bring forward at the end of last year extend the breed cover by the Dangerous Dogs Act 1991 to include dog of the XL bully type . I table an early - day motion to try to amend that . that early - day motion be on the Order Paper , but it be never accept or debate , mean that that change , which affect hundred of thousand of dog and their owner , be make without any proper scrutiny in Parliament . that be why it be important to have the affirmative procedure where possible , and I be very grateful to the hon . Lady for have bring forward this amendment , which I support . amendment 2 agree to . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . it be a pleasure to bring this Bill back for further debate , as it now exist in an amend form . it be a key moment for a Bill that be important to the building society sector , and I must thank all colleague from both side of the House who have take part as the Bill have go through its various stage — they have be so supportive of the Bill . I be go to keep my remark short so that if other member wish to speak , they can do so , and to try to make sure that the Bill ' s progress be as smooth as possible . the Building Societies Act 1986 ( Amendment ) Bill will help level the play field between build society and bank , and will support building society to be able to lend more money in a safe and secure way . to trade as a building society , the Building Societies Act 1986 require the company to obtain a minimum of 50 % of funding from its member — what be know as the wholesale funding limit . this Bill do not change that , and it do not dilute the unique ownership model of building society . the fundamental nature of a building society — be run in the interest of its member — be not change by the Bill ; in fact , that be what make the sector so special . what the Bill do be disregard the following from the 50 % wholesale funding limit : Bank of England liquidity insurance facility , debt instrument raise to meet the minimum regulatory requirement for own fund and eligible liability requirement , and sum receive under sale and repurchase agreement with a view to comply with Prudential Regulation Authority rule . this mean that in time of national economic crisis , building society will have more option within their gift for remain comfortably solvent , and will therefore continue to serve in their member ' interest . the Bill be design to allow future government to respond to the financial landscape of the day . that be why it do not specifically define fund , but instead defer the specification of fund to a later date through secondary legislation pass in this House . all the response from the sector to the Government ' s 2021 consultation on this issue , in advance of the Edinburgh reform , be positive . those reform make the sector more robust . the Bill also seek to modernise the sector . it amend the 1986 Act to explicitly allow the option of real - time virtual member participation , bring the sector in line with the requirement that the Companies Act 2006 place on business . it also enable the Treasury to introduce more flexibility for society in relation to common sale and the execution of document , in line with company law . the Bill be important because it would achieve a great deal in a very succinct manner , allow the sector to operate on a more level playing field with bank . this be positive for a number of reason , but especially in view of the sector ' s support for first - time buyer . More than half build society lending go to first - time buyer , and since 2020 building society just in my region , the north - east and Cumbria , have lend they some £ 3 . 4 billion . this Bill follow a number of previous private member ' bill — include that of my hon . friend the Member for Preston ( Sir Mark Hendrick ) , which receive Royal Assent last year — that continue to modernise the sector . I will not restate all the fact that I present on Second Reading , powerful as they be , but it be important to acknowledge that , while the housing sector have recover significantly since the record low mortgage approval during the covid pandemic and have recover from the acute economic shock cause by the last Conservative Administration , mortgage approval be currently still below the level that that we see before the pandemic . that be why I think that a Bill such as this , which give more choice to the building society sector to operate in the interest of its member , be a good thing . as I have say , the sector have a strong record in support first - time buyer , and give that every £ 10 million of lending could support an additional 20 , 000 mortgage , I be proud to be introduce a Bill with the potential not just to support the housing sector and the wide economy , but to allow building society to help more people on their journey to home ownership . I have speak to many constituent in Sunderland who be struggle to get on to the housing ladder — young couple and family who just want the chance to have a place that be theirs and in which they can feel comfortable , away from a volatile and often unfair rental market . the Government ' s failure to reform the sector be a debate to be have elsewhere on another day , but I expect this Bill to do more to support a sector that often go above and beyond to support its member , and to help people get on to the housing ladder and secure a future for themselves . its passing would be a landmark moment for the sector , and I look forward to see the positive effect that it would bring . I congratulate the hon . member for Sunderland Central ( Julie Elliott ) on present the Bill and bring it this far . have present a private Member ' s Bill myself , I know all about the joy , and the up and down , of the process . building society be financial institution with the principal purpose of provide residential mortgage , and be fund substantially by their member . I have see at first hand how their membership system bring people together , and give many a shared sense of interest and purpose . Darlington — this will come as no surprise — be home to Darlington Building Society , which have be serve the people of Darlington and the surround area since 1856 . its commitment to our community be second to none ; indeed , only last night at the Tees Business Awards event it walk away with the Community Champion award , which recognise its contribution to our community . while many high street be see the loss of financial institution , just a few month ago the Minister himself open a new branch of Darlington Building Society in high row . Darlington be also the birthplace of the railway — bear with I here — and some year ago Darlington Building Society commission a child ' s book by Peter Barron , the former editor of the Northern Echo , to tell the story of Darly the engine . as we approach the 200th anniversary of the railway — a very big year for we — the building society , in collaboration with the west end composer Stuart Brayson and Darlington Operatic Society , be turn the story of Darly into a musical , which will premier in September next year . I be proud to represent a town with such a strong track record of support our community . the Bill be about put building society such as Darlington Building Society on a more level playing field with bank , in relation to their capital raising and corporate governance requirement , so that they can compete more effectively in the financial service sector and well support their member . it will help to deliver key ask from the sector itself . I welcome the provision in the Bill , which largely mirror proposal that the Government consult on during 2022 , and I welcome that both the Government and the building society sector be support it . indeed , Andrew Craddock , chief executive officer of Darlington Building Society , have also voice his support state : " Darlington Building Society support the propose reform to the Building Societies Act . the modernisation will cut archaic red tape by remove outdated corporate governance requirement , which build society face but bank don ' t . " as a vital part of our financial framework , and with a deep - root interest in community in Darlington , I believe the Bill will help build society to survive and thrive . it be right that we do all we can to ensure that business flourish , so the cutting of red tape be welcome , as be the removing of outdated , bureaucratic governance system that be not face by big bank . to conclude , I welcome the Bill as a way of ensure that building society be embrace and enable to do business with few hurdle and red tape . it sort out certain question about funding , and it level the play field . I be pleased to support the Bill , and trust that the House will give it its full support . every day be a school day , and I be delighted to learn about Darly the engine . I be equally excited about the forthcoming musical , and it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) . I thank the hon . member for Sunderland Central ( Julie Elliott ) for her effort in get the Bill through its initial stage . it be a Bill we can all get behind because it benefit our constituent , and I be pleased to give it my backing . at the back end of 2021 , the Government run a consultation on amendment that could improve the Building Societies Act 1986 . the response be pretty positive , and I be glad that the Bill reflect many of they . build society play an unique role in the UK economy , serve around 25 million people and go back nearly a quarter of a century , particularly in Darlington . in my constituency , I be pleased to visit a branch of Nationwide Building Society late last year , to receive assurance that it be go to stay open — I be happy to place that on the record in this place — but more to see the impact that it have in the community . it be more than just banking service . People go in there for a chat , or more than a chat . old member of our community be go in there and have lesson on online banking , how to use an iPad , and receive advice on counter fraud , either online or on the phone . there be a real place in our community for build society . as member - own financial institution , build society be know for deliver excellent service , particularly on mortgage lending , often to a high level of customer satisfaction . for that reason , anything we can do in Parliament to ensure they remain competitive in the financial sector must be a good thing for both our economy and for local community . the Bill will rightly put building society on a more even keel with bank . in a broad sense , the Bill be about level the play field in the financial sector , help build society to increase their lending capacity . that can be hugely helpful to first - time buyer , and more people on the housing ladder be something that member across the House can get behind . in Milton Keynes , get people on the property ladder be a real priority : it be incredibly frustrating that the average cost of a new - build house in Milton Keynes be about £ 475 , 000 , while the average cost of any house sell in Milton Keynes last year be about £ 335 , 000 . access to finance and anything we can do to support that be a key part of any solution . on the role that build society play in mortgage - lending service , accord to the Building Societies Association , they be responsible for a third of first - time buyer mortgage completion . it stand to reason that if we can increase the fundraising capacity for building society , we can get even more people on the housing ladder . as clause 1 describe , the propose change can get we there . the Bill be another good example of cross - party collaboration , with colleague across the House recognise its clear benefit . from both personal experience and engagement with our constituent , member can attest to the pivotal role that build society play in our community , strengthen building society be bind to have a positive economic consequence across the board . I look forward to see the Bill progress into law . I place on record my thank to the hon . member for Sunderland Central ( Julie Elliott ) for bring a pragmatic and important Bill to the House , and I give it my full support today . as always , she work assiduously in make life well for people across the United Kingdom and in her constituency , and she work in an extremely positive manner across party to achieve her aim , and I thank she for that , too . as other have mention , build society be extremely important to the fabric of the financial institution in our constituency . I make regular visit to the Nationwide Building Society branch in East Kilbride , as I do just a few month ago . like my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes North ( Ben Everitt ) , I be reassure to find out that my local branch have no plan to close and be thrive in the community . many people be come in to speak and to chat , as well as for socialisation and reassurance regard finance and debt and how to engage with the new digital banking sector . the reach - out into the community be second to none . I be impress by that , particularly as I have have terrible news from East Kilbride just this week that the Royal Bank of Scotland be close its branch there . that follow on from the bad news just last month that the Bank of Scotland be close in Strathaven and Lesmahagow , leave those community without essential banking , particularly as those branch be the last bank in those local community . it be distress for the resident . I be pleased to be able to raise their concern today and to praise Nationwide for the work it be do and its assurance that it want to be at the heart of our community for the foreseeable future . I declare a personal interest , as my first mortgage be with that building society . I do not know an awful lot about finance or mortgage at the time , but Nationwide take the time to go through the different option with I , and I feel reassure by the manager . have that face - to - face contact be so important . for first - time buyer who be not sure about the step to take in get their first mortgage — it be such a pivotal part of our life journey — these institution play such an important role in our local community . I also place on record my thank for the work that Nationwide be do on mental health . I be part of the Money and Mental Health Policy Institute , chair by Martin Lewis . we know that there be a huge link between mental health and finance . debt , in particular , correlate with people ' s mental health spiral downward , and we need to make sure we address those issue through all our banking institution . as have already be say , this be an important Bill , which place build society on par with bank for corporate governance and solvency , and will keep they competitive and at the heart of our community for the future . I call the shadow Minister . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Sunderland Central ( Julie Elliott ) . as we all know , it be sheer luck to come top of the private Member ' s Bill ballot , but draft a Bill that generate strong cross - party support and become law be the result of tremendous hard work . this be a classic private member ' s Bill that , as she suggest , might look technical in nature but will make a huge difference to those people affect . the Bill be also true to Labour and co - operative value , and we in the Labour party be delighted to support it . my hon . friend have work painstakingly over many month to draft and develop the Bill , engage with Treasury civil servant and Ministers . she have also work closely with Labour ' s sister party , the Co - operative party , and the wide mutual sector , include the Building Societies Association and Nationwide . we have hear excellent contribution in the debate that have highlight the importance of the sector and the positive impact that the Bill will have for community and family , not least in the context of bank branch closure across the country . build society and mutual have a long and proud tradition of support work people in access affordable finance . today , the sector continue to play a crucial role in promote financial responsibility and resilience among its member . build society also enable family to get on the housing ladder . as we have hear , they direct a significant proportion of their lending to first - time buyer , and the Bill could unlock significant additional lending capacity from build society , support more work people to become homeowner , not least in my constituency of Bristol North West , where so many people be struggle to buy their first home . since the Bill first come before the House , my hon . friend the Member for Hampstead and Kilburn ( Tulip Siddiq ) have launch the Labour party ' s financial service review . that landmark review outline Labour ' s plan to work hand in hand with business and the financial service sector to drive economic prosperity . it also reaffirm what the first priority will be of a Labour Government : to provide a secure platform for growth , which build on the strength of our economy and give citizen across the UK financial stability . to deliver on those priority , a key aspect of the review be labour ' s commitment that the next Labour Government will aim to double the size of the co - operative and mutual financial service sector under . the Bill be an important step towards achieve that aim , as it will help to level the play field for bank and building society . while Labour strongly welcome the measure in the Bill , we believe that further legislation be necessary to deliver on our ambition and ensure benefit for community across the country . that be why our review set out measure that will help to underpin rapid mutual financial service growth , include new requirement on regulator and policymaker to : consider properly the need of mutual and actively reduce barrier to their growth ; support credit union in offer more product ; and strengthen the small and medium - sized enterprise bank referral scheme , in order to support business in secure financial resource from co - operative and mutual . labour ' s ambition , work together with the Co - operative party and the wide co - operative and mutual sector , be clear : to support the sector , so that the vital contribution that it make to our economy can go far and drive much need growth in the future . labour recognise that the Bill be an important step forward , and we be delighted to give it our full support . may I once again congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Sunderland Central on her excellent work ? let I first congratulate the hon . member for Sunderland Central ( Julie Elliott ) on reach the Third reading of her important Bill , which will help to ensure the future growth and success of the building society sector . she be a strong advocate for the sector , and have introduce a Bill that will help it to grow and compete with retail bank , so that it can continue to provide vital diversity to the UK financial service sector . I also congratulate my hon . friend the Members for East Kilbride , Strathaven and Lesmahagow ( Dr Cameron ) , and for Milton Keynes North ( Ben Everitt ) , and especially my hon . friend the Member for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) , who I be delighted to join back in November to open the Darlington Building Society in the middle of town . I see from he and the employee just how impactful they be in his community , and I be sure that they will go from strength to strength . while the Minister be on his foot , I wonder whether he could outline to the House the gift he receive from Robin Blair , our veteran fruiterer and vegetable trader in our historic market hall , who join he on that opening day . I be not expect an intervention on that of all subject , but I do enjoy the satsuma that be provide by the very nice gentleman , who I understand be an institution in the town of Darlington . as I be say , build society be important to all our community , not least mine in Grantham and Bourne . in Grantham I have the Nationwide Building Society , the Nottingham Building Society and the Melton Mowbray Building Society , a new branch of which be open in Bourne in April . today I wish to outline a few thing : first , the Government ' s support for the mutual sector ; secondly , the importance of mutual to our overall financial service sector ; and , finally , how this Bill will far support the future growth and success of mutual . the Government want to promote the growth of mutual , which make a vital contribution to the UK economy . as outline in the mutual prospectus , there be over 9 , 000 mutual operate throughout the country , with a combine annual turnover of some £ 88 billion in 2022 , which equate to 3 . 5 % of UK GDP . however , beyond their vital financial contribution to the UK economy , mutual play an important role in support people across the country . their unique ownership model mean that these business be root in their local community , and work to make society well . it be for those reason that the Government be commit to support the growth and success of the mutual sector . for example , last summer the Government amend the Credit Unions Act 1979 so that credit union in Great Britain can offer a great range of product and service . moreover , as the hon . member for Sunderland Central say , last year the Government support the private Member ' s Bill introduce by the hon . member for Preston ( Sir Mark Hendrick ) , which achieve Royal Assent in June 2023 . the Co - operative , Mutuals and Friendly Societies Act 2023 will allow the Treasury to pursue further secondary legislation to give co - operative , mutual insurer and friendly society great flexibility in decide what to do with their surplus capital and the restriction on their asset . the Government continue to develop a modern and supportive business environment for mutual . as part of that , we have ask the Law Commission to conduct review of the Co - operative and Community Benefit Societies Act 2014 and the Friendly Societies Act 1992 . building society be perhaps one of the well - know type of mutual . there be 42 building society operate throughout the country , provide mortgage and saving product to around 26 million member . they play an essential role in support their member in build saving habit and buy their own home , as the hon . member for Bristol North West ( Darren Jones ) outline . that cause be support by member from across the House , but particularly by the hon . member for Sunderland Central , who have consistently champion the importance of support first - time buyer — not just in her constituency , but across the country . building society be especially well represent in community outside the south - east . for example , the Melton Mowbray Building Society provide vital support in all area neighbour my constituency , and I note that the Newcastle Building Society have a significant presence in the constituency of hon . member for Sunderland Central . it build on a 160 - year history , and its amazing commitment to its member in the community in which it operate remain strong . it have partner with the citizen advice fund to provide expert advice to member , answer question on a variety of important issue . she also have the Yorkshire Building Society in her constituency , which have do great work on financial literacy through its Money Minds programme . it be clear that build society contribute to the wellbeing of community throughout our country , include in the constituency of the hon . member for Sunderland Central . the Government be fully supportive of this private Member ' s Bill , which will help the sector to compete more effectively with retail bank , so that build society can continue to work . this Bill be about enable building society to grow and compete with retail bank . we be achieve that by update the legislation in three short way . first , the Bill exclude three specify source of funding from the 50 % wholesale funding limit for building society . this will provide they with great flexibility in raise additional wholesale funding , while still operate within the mutual model . the detail of the fund will be far specify by the Treasury through secondary legislation in due course . furthermore , the amendment in the name of the hon . member for Sunderland Central mean that the statutory instrument will be subject to the affirmative procedure , allow for great parliamentary scrutiny ; that come on the back of very constructive work from across the House . the amendment do not change the policy outcome of the Bill in any way , but simply amend the parliamentary procedure that will be follow when subsequent regulation be make . secondly , the Bill allow for the option of real - time virtual participation at build society meeting . this will improve meet accessibility and promote wide membership engagement , should the member of any building society choose to permit virtual participation under their rule . finally , the Bill will provide his Majesty ' s Treasury with the power to far align constitutional provision . specifically , it will align provision in part 2 of the Building Societies Act 1986 on common seal and the execution of document with modification make to company law . this will remove outdated and burdensome legislative requirement , and update the 1986 Act , in line with modernisation make to company law . in conclusion , the Government fully support the hon . Lady ' s Bill . we recognise the importance of the building society sector , which support people and community across the country . I extend my thank to the hon . Lady for introduce the Bill and for progress it to Third Reading . she can be assure that the Government share the vision set out in the Bill for support the future growth and prosperity of the building society sector . with the leave of the House , I would like to thank all member who contribute at various stage of the Bill . on Second Reading , I have not expect the political history lesson we have from member on both side of the Chamber , but it be quite entertaining . it be an honour to have a debate on a Bill on which everybody agree ; everybody can see the very tangible benefit it will have for all our constituent . it have take a lot of work from a lot of people to get to this point . I thank not only colleague who have take part at every stage , but Treasury official , who have be extremely helpful ; the Clerks , whose advice , support and guidance be , as always in this place , invaluable ; the Whips ; the Building Societies Association ; and our sister party , the Co - operative party . they have all contribute , and help with advice and support , as I have take the Bill through the House . I commend it to the House . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . Zoological Society of London ( Leases ) Bill consideration of Bill , not amend in the Public Bill Committee I call Sir Christopher Chope to move amendment 1 . not move , sir . thank you . consideration be complete . [ interruption . ] I understand that King ' s consent will need to be signify for Third Reading . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . can we move on to the next business , please ? technically , no — not at this moment . far to that point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . at what point can we make speech on the Bill ? once the Third Reading debate have commence . third read King ' s consent signify . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . in answer to the question from my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) , who have an amendment down on the amendment paper , may I just say that that be the subject of a great deal of discussion and debate between the Ministry , the sponsor and myself ? I thank my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch for have , in effect , withdraw his amendment , follow various discussion . will my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) explain why it be important and timely that we ensure the Bill receive its Third reading today and progress to the other place ? let I explain the situation with the length of lease , which be the point of contention . it be the subject of discussion and debate with the Ministry . the Minister ' s original proposal be for a 100 - year lease extension , which would not have allow the Zoological Society of London to get the investment require to lengthen the lease and renovate the site of London zoo . it have literally have its big animal move up to Whipsnade zoo so that they can roam freely , as we would all like . that mean the cage in which they be keep be now redundant and need to be completely remove , with modern facility provide . as a result , we have agree the compromise at 150 year . for clarity , will my hon . friend outline when the ZSL ' s current lease commence ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention , but I do not have that detail to hand . what be important be that the lease be ongoing and therefore run out . in respect of the Crown Estate ' s provision , London zoo be unfortunately leave out when we do the extension to kew garden , so this Bill seek to be in keep with the provision for Kew garden , as for other part of the Crown Estate . that be the crucial element . it have be a privilege to take this Bill — my third private Member ' s Bill — through Parliament . since visit the zoo in January 2023 , I have work with a range of people to get to this stage , without whom it would not have be possible . the zoo be situate in Regent ' s Park and be home to more than 14 , 000 animal . it be a true London landmark . if colleague have not visit , I recommend it as an abundantly enjoyable , interesting and captivate day out , with the add bonus of be only a short tube journey from this place . every year , tourist from London and the wide UK , and indeed from around the globe , visit the zoo , which contribute to the UK ' s wide economy , as visitor be more likely to spend money in the surround area , particularly as the zoo be only a stone ' s throw from many of London ' s cultural hotspot . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech on an important topic . that visitor economy be essential to all part of our country , but it be really important to London . do he know how many international visitor travel to visit the zoo each year ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention , and I will come to that point in a few moment . the key point be that the zoo contribute £ 24 million to the local economy , as well as make the income it need to maintain its research and keep threaten specie safe . community outreach project be instrumental in the philosophy of the zoo . on my visit , I be very impressed by the new garden area , where volunteer with complex need can spend the day garden and visit the animal for much - need respite and wellbee . the zoo have also recently implement a community access scheme to enable those on income support and other benefit to visit for as little as £ 3 . in the recent February half - term , 50 , 000 visit be facilitate through that scheme . it be essential that everyone , regardless of where they live , have access to nature and outdoor space . I be therefore pleased that ZSL be commit to provide access to those who need the extra help so that no one be leave out . the reputation of the wide zoo sector have come in for a bit of examination in recent decade , and it have be criticise , perhaps correctly , for enclosure that be too small , and concern be raise that we be start to look at animal as object for entertainment , rather than consider the preservation of rare specie . I would be grateful if my hon . friend expand a little on the step that this zoo have take to move away from the outdated approach of zoological society in the past and to lead the fight to retain really rare specie for reintroduction in the wild . clearly , the decision have be make to move the large animal to Whipsnade zoo , which ZSL also run , so that they have the space they need to roam in and feel more like they be in the wild , while still be protect . that mean those facility at London zoo be now redundant and — this be precisely the reason for the Bill — need to be replace with modern facility for other protect specie , and so that visitor can see they in suitable accommodation . those specie obviously do not need to roam , but they will be give modern facility . I encourage other zoo across the country , and indeed across the world , to consider the same thing . my hon . friend be be very generous with his time . this bring I to the zoo ' s build structure . the zoo have be in that location for well over 100 year — perhaps it be 200 year — and some of the structure that I see when I visit as a child be of considerable architectural merit , and perhaps historic merit . what step be the zoo take to ensure that its structure be appropriate for modern usage and that its list building , if there be any , be protect and that the architectural merit of the historical victorian enclosure be recognise ? I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . clearly , many of these structure be protect , which be one reason why it be so expensive to bring they up to modern standard while retain the original architecture . if it be a simple case of demolish and put in new facility , there would be less cost . that be why a very large investment be require , which the zoo can not raise from its own resource ; it have to borrow the money , and as a result it need a lease that be long enough for investor to know that the revenue will come in from visitor and other attraction and that they will recover their fund . this be why the Bill be so vital for safeguard London zoo for the future . my hon . friend will be well aware that ZSL have highlight that the exist lease condition be limit its ability to fundraise , to create partnership , to expand its support programme and , of course , to invest in that vital renovation of the physical infrastructure . can he confirm that this law would not automatically extend the lease to 150 year in and of itself , but would allow the Department for Culture , Media and Sport to offer this lease , so it be not automatic but a step in the right direction to enable that support for the zoo ? I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . that be what we hope to hear from the Minister later on . clearly , we be in a position whereby we be make the offer , but we will have to see about that negotiation to ensure that there be suitable protection so that , be such terrible event to occur such that ZSL should no long have the lease , it would be remove . however , it have operate very successfully on the site for many year , so I do not think that be likely . move on , the educational offering provide a critical supplement to classroom work for many child . in fact , many of we will have have the opportunity to visit the school as child . the workshop , which be specifically tailor to cater for all age group and learn need , educate child on such hugely important topic as wildlife conservation , climate change and the impact of pollution . the zoo ' s research have perhaps benefit animal the most , shape the future of many previously endanger specie . many animal at risk of extinction have participate in the zoo ' s breed programme to ensure that they be save for future generation . in 2021 - 22 alone , £ 17 . 4 million be spend on conservation science and field conservation programme , with £ 38 . 5 million spend on conservation , animal care , breed programme and conservation translocation . I be pleased that , in the come month , the zoo will be return the previously endanger Guam kingfisher back into the wild , and only recently , over the Easter break , three endanger asiatic lion cub be bear at the zoo to dote parent — seven - year - old mum Arya , and 14 - year - old dad Bhanu . the animal do not recognise working hour , annual leave or bank holiday ; they need supervision and care 24 hour a day , seven day a week , to ensure that they be feed and care for whenever need . that emphasise the need for the dedicated and thorough programme that the zoo operate on . it be profoundly clear that the zoo be an integral part of society , and thus we must protect its heritage and position . I be pleased that we have make it to Third Reading , and I be confident that , hopefully on receive Royal Assent , the future of the zoo will be much more stable , and a bright , increasingly attractive opportunity for investment purpose . look at the wording of the Bill , there be a question mark over its drafting , and I would be grateful if my hon . friend could explain it to I . we can see in clause 1 that the Bill be " in relation to certain land in Regent ' s Park " , with the potential to substitute " 150 year " for " 60 year " . it be very specific ; the potential power be in relation to certain land and lease relate to Regent ' s Park in London . yet clause 2 ( 1 ) state : " this Act extend to England and Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland . " can my hon . friend clarify that for I ? what be the need for the extension to the jurisdiction of Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland when the lease be particular to Regent ' s Park in London ? clearly , we be look at a lease and leasehold law . that be the reason for clarify that particular issue in that particular way . I would like to thank Matthew Gould , the chief executive officer for ZSL . Matthew and I have cross path on several occasion prior to his appointment to his previous position as the Government ' s first director general for digital and medium at DCMS and as Britain ' s ambassador to Israel . therefore , it feel fitting to have come full circle and to have work with he on this Bill over the past year . his devotion to the welfare and happiness of the zoo ' s animal be steadfast , with a commitment to the research and development of specie across the globe and to tackle the world ' s challenge , include the current biodiversity crisis . my next thank go to Vicky Godwin , senior public affair officer for the zoo . Vicky have be on hand throughout the progress of the Bill , facilitate the discussion between the Department , my office and ZSL . she have also come in to provide support every step of the way , watch the debate at the Bill ' s various stage . I be very grateful to my colleague who helpfully sit on the Bill Committee and allow the Bill to pass unanimously with no amendment . it be super to hear the support for London zoo from so many highly respected member from both in and outside London . some — such as a previous employee , my hon . friend the Member for North Herefordshire ( Sir Bill Wiggin ) , who be a keeper at London zoo in his distant past — have a more vested interest . my hon . friend ' s personal experience that he share in Committee be interesting , to put it mildly . I also thank the Clerks in the Public Bill Office who bear with we through the process , inform my office on procedure and development . I particularly thank they for their patience during the mad scramble to ensure that we have enough member serve on the Committee ahead of the deadline . they often get overlook in this place , but their work be crucial to ensure the proceeding of the Chamber run smoothly , and we be all very grateful for all that they do . the Minister and official in her Department have support the Bill throughout , for which I be exceptionally grateful . their advice and assistance with draft the Bill have be invaluable — indeed , they redrafte our original draft . it be great that the Government be support this worthy change in the lease , which benefit the zoo , the local area and obviously all the potential visitor . I have no doubt that should the Minister , or indeed any other colleague , wish to visit the zoo , they will be greet with open arm and meet with many friendly face , both human and animal . I also thank my parliamentary assistant , Hattie Shoosmith . as always , when she draft these speech , she miss herself out of the thank , but I put on record my thank to she . I will just remind colleague about some of the endanger specie and particular zoo animal that have be protect as a direct result of this Bill come to fruition . the first be one of my favourite animal , Guy the gorilla . on Guy Fawkes day in 1947 , a very small gorilla arrive at London zoo clutch a tin hot water bottle . at first , he would only respond to French , as he have spend the previous six month in the zoo in Paris . Guy become one of the zoo ' s well - love character — I remember see he as a young boy . when sparrow enter his enclosure , he would scoop they up gently and peer at they before let they go . tragically , he die of a heart attack after have a tooth extract in 1978 , and his statue be much love by London zoo ' s visitor today . the second be Goldie the eagle . I remember that in 1965 , when I be in primary school , Goldie escape . we become obsess with Goldie for almost a fortnight ; he appear on tv and in the press , and be cheer wildly — even when mention in this place , in the House of Commons . some 5 , 000 people cause traffic jam around Regent ' s Park as he fly from tree to tree . after 11 day and 19 and a half hour , he be finally recapture and bring back to the zoo . the only quagga to ever have be photograph alive be at London zoo . there be officially five photo of a quagga , provide the only insight into what a live quagga look like after the specie become extinct in 1883 . thousand of quagga once graze the plain of southern Africa ; today , they provide a reminder of the importance of wildlife conservation . Pipaluk , a male polar bear , be bear at London zoo on 1 December 1967 . he be the only male polar bear cub successfully rear at the zoo . the name Pipaluk , mean " little one " , be choose from a list of Inuit name . Pipaluk ' s parent , who have arrive from Moscow zoo in 1960 as young cub , be call Sam and Sally — they be name after the zoo ' s bear keeper , Sam Morton , and his fianc é e . Pipaluk leave London zoo in 1985 when the Mappin terrace , which house all the bear , be closed , and very sadly die at the age of 22 in a zoo in Poland . my hon . friend be give we fantastic story of the remarkable work that London zoo be do . do he have any statistic about the number of animal it have be able to protect and return to the wild through its amazing conservation operation ? the reality be that there be 10 , 000 animal of various specie in the zoo . I suspect I would try your patience , Mr Deputy Speaker , be I to list all of they , but I will talk about some of they . Jumbo the elephant be believe to have be bear in 1861 . he arrive at the Jardin des Plantes zoo in Paris when he be still very small , and in 1865 he be send to London zoo . on arrival there , he be in a dreadful condition , but after he be place in the care of Matthew Scott , a former antelope keeper , Jumbo flourish . he be so famous , he have have a lasting impact on the english language , help to make " jumbo " a synonym for big . a female african elephant , Alice , arrive a few month after Jumbo , and the two elephant become associate in the public mind . Jumbo be soon train to give ride and become a great favourite , largely because he have such a good nature . by the early 1880 , he be nearly 11 foot tall . sadly , Jumbo be kill in a railway accident in Canada in 1885 . order . I do not wish to appear churlish , and the hon . Gentleman will be fully aware that I have a personal interest in these matter , but it would be helpful if he be to relate the catalogue to the reason for extend the lease . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I will take your remark into account . the reality be that among the well over 10 , 000 animal at the zoo be many endanger specie that could not be preserve be the zoo to cease operate . if we do not extend the lease , the zoo will not continue . Endangered specie there include the Annam leaf turtle , the asiatic lion , the Lake Oku claw frog , the mountain chicken , the northern white - cheek gibbon , the philippine crocodile , the ring - tail lemur , the Sumatran tiger , of which there be only 400 leave in the world , the Waldrapp ibis , various specie of gorilla , all of which be endanger , the white - naped mangabey , the chinese giant salamander , and finally pangolin . I very much hope that the Bill be pass and that by extend the lease we can secure the future of these endanger animal . be that not to happen , though , what be plan b for the Zoological Society , for the maintenance of its programme and , indeed , for the future of the animal its staff currently look after ? I have not mention the immense zoological research do at the zoo by world - famous scientist . for example , Darwin perform research at London zoo ; he might not have come up with the theory of evolution without the zoo . currently , thousand of scientist at the zoo do brilliant work and conduct wonderful research . I recommend that any colleague interested in zoological research visit the zoo and see some of the work be do there , and I urge they to recognise that be the zoo not to have visitor attraction that bring in revenue , it would cease to exist . if we do not extend the lease , the zoo will continue to run down , it will not have the investment that it require , and it will be unable to continue its excellent work . unless we pass the Bill and it become law , the zoo will not be able to raise the money that it need to do all that wonderful work and preserve endanger specie across the world , which will unfortunately become extinct . that be the harsh reality , and that be why the Bill be so important . let I end by remind Members of the vital contribution that London zoo and the Zoological Society of London have make to our world over the last 200 year . as I have say , Charles Darwin conduct many of his study at London zoo , and without it we would not have the theory of evolution . another notable character connect with the zoo be Winnie the Pooh . Lieutenant Harry Colebourn be a member of the Royal Canadian Army Veterinary Corps during the great war , and while travel across Canada to join his regiment and serve in the war , he buy a female black bear cub in White River , Ontario from a hunter who have kill her mother . Colebourn name the bear Winnie after his then home town , the city of Winnipeg , and when his regiment be send by train to England in 1914 , Winnie accompany he . she become a pet , and an unofficial mascot to the 2nd Canadian Infantry Brigade during its time on Salisbury plain . Colebourn be not , however , permit to take she with he when the brigade be deploy to the battlefield of France . he leave she in the keeping of London zoo on 9 December 1914 , hope to return after the war to reclaim she . Colebourn serve heroically during the war , rise to the rank of captain . although he visit his beloved Winnie when he be on leave from France , he ultimately decide that the zoo be the good place for she to live , and in 1919 he donate she permanently in gratitude for her care . among the child of London who continue to be smite by Winnie in the come year be a young boy call Christopher Robin , who repeatedly beg his father , the author A . a . Milne , to take he to the zoo . he would feed Winnie spoonful of condense milk in between big , furry hug — and from that come the story of Winnie - the - Pooh . as we know , the late Queen be a great fan of Winnie - the - Pooh as well . may I ask my hon . friend whether the zoo have a current royal patron , and if so , who it be ? the King be , of course , greatly enamoured of both wildlife and London zoo , and I be therefore delighted that he have give King ' s consent to the Bill , but the actual royal patron — [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) be chuntere from a sedentary position . I will take an intervention from he if he will be good enough to make one . it be really a sort of point of order . I do not think it appropriate for anyone present a piece of legislation to claim the monarch ' s support or otherwise . that be not what royal confirmation mean . I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . obviously we want to ensure that we proceed effectively and properly , and I take his point and will adapt my remark accordingly . in two year ' time it will be the bicentenary of the Zoological Society of London . be we not be rather churlish in discuss only an extension of the lease ? why do we not let the society have the freehold of London zoo ? my hon . friend and I share the view that leasehold should be abolish completely , with freehold the norm and commonhold in flat . however , the zoo be part of the Crown Estate , so this be a matter for the Crown Estate . if the freehold be to be negotiate between the Crown Estate and the society , that too would be a matter for they , but it go beyond the scope of the Bill . the Crown Estate have discretion to provide either an extension or a freehold . the Government be enable those with long lease to acquire freehold . why be the Government not ensure that the zoo can have the freehold ? why be there one standard for Crown Estate property and another standard for private landlord ? rise — order . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely correct to say that that go slightly wide than the scope of the Bill under discussion . I take his point , but that be perhaps a matter for another day . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I take your guidance . I agree with my hon . friend that that could and should be potentially negotiate . that is , of course , a matter for discussion with the Crown Estate . it may well be that , follow the general election and a new Parliament , we might consider take that forward in a future Bill and a future debate , but for today the debate be about the extension of the lease . I , along with a number of other member , have be involve with the Society of Antiquaries ' discussion with the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities about extend the society ' s lease . I be very pleased that it successfully secure a 999 - year lease extension . be a similar length consider when my hon . friend be put together the Bill ? I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . we start with a provision to extend the lease from its current form to 100 year . the investor who be approach by ZSL to consider whether that would allow they to do what be require say , " no , this be not enough . it would take a minimum of 150 year . " so it be fair to say that , in the negotiation between the Department , ZSL and I , we have come to a compromise of an extension to the lease of 150 year . be the Department and the Crown Estate so minded , we could look at a 999 - year lease extension , but that be what the Bill ' s sponsor request and what I be pleased to propose . I hope the House will go along with that proposal and that it can be put into law and come to fruition after the other place have have a look at it . if there be then another suggestion that we go for a much long lease , that can be the subject of yet another Bill in the new Parliament and we could take that forward , if require . at the moment , it be not require , but as we know 999 year be effectively a freehold . if any one of we be homeowner , we will know that periodic renovation be require to refresh a commercial offering or our own home . it give I some cause for concern that the Bill be base on the premise of a single renovation of the offer at Regent ' s Park . my hon . friend suggest that the full 150 - year extension be require to secure the current round of investment . be it not rather shortsighted to bring forward a Bill that solve only today ' s problem and be blind to the entirely foreseeable problem that will come in 25 , 40 or perhaps 50 year ? I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . how long a lease extension will be grant for be obviously a matter for debate . the decision on how much funding be require be a matter for the operator who be consider what they want to do and why they want to do it . clearly , matter may change in the future , but that be what be require to do the work that be require over a lengthy period . I believe that they have make the right assessment . thing can change , in which case that would lead , I think , to another negotiation and another consideration of what else be require . however , a 150 - year lease extension allow substantial investment to be make over a number of year , so as matter change , the investment can be call down , utilise and build upon . I will end my remark there . I thank everybody for listen and for their intervention . I look forward to hear colleague , include the shadow Minister and my hon . friend the Minister . it be a huge pleasure to speak on Third Reading . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) on pilot this Bill on a subject that have be a passion of his for some time , and I be hopeful not only that we will give the Bill its Third reading today , but that it will sail through the other place . my hon . friend have set out pretty well the reason why this matter , but I think it worth add some point on the strength of London zoo in what it bring to wildlife not just in this country but around the world , and why the extension of the lease matter . I sympathise with concern about whether we should be look to change the 1961 Act to allow for a freehold in this situation , but we have to be pragmatic in what we do . my understanding be that the Crown Estate ' s standard lease for building be 150 year and , as a consequence , that be the sensible conclusion that my hon . friend have put into the Bill . there be good reason for that , as have already be outline , in term of the potential not only to generate fund to undertake redevelopment , but to predict the future income necessary for many of the zoo ' s activity . one thing that right hon . and hon . member may not be aware of be that several London zoo building have have to be close . some have be close in order then to provide well environment . a good example be the reptile house : it close in October last year , and a brand new reptile experience be open over the Easter recess . I must admit that , while bearded dragon may be lovely and glamourous , I be not particularly a fan of snake , but I have overcome the fear that mean I could not even look at a picture of a snake . nevertheless , the environment and habitat be absolutely key if those animal be to prosper , and the amount of careful work require be not cheap . other building have simply be close : London zoo have two list building that need to be maintain to a certain standard , and as we know , the cost of do so seem ever - increase . People should not think that London zoo can carry on as it be . in 1992 , the ZSL council actually order that London zoo be close because it be lose money . that would have be devastating for this great city of London , and for the ZSL , give the work that it do not just in this country , but around the world . that be why I be pleased that we have make the progress that we have . ultimately , London zoo have to generate income in order to ensure that it can continue to function and operate . on redevelopment , certain building have be close simply because they be not necessarily safe either for the animal or for human , so it be important that new source of finance go into London zoo to ensure that the environment for animal be the good it can be , and that it can be a visitor attraction . I be sure that my hon . friend the Minister will explain that the zoo be the 10th most visit attraction in our great capital , but there have of course be significant investment beyond London . when the elephant house be close down , for example , an appropriate environment be set up at Whipsnade zoo to reaccommodate they . the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs hire the Mappin pavilion last year , when I give a speech on the progress of the 25 - year environment plan . of course , this be do primarily for the animal , but it have to be attractive so that the organisation can thrive and raise fund . my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East talk extensively about the research that be carry out . this be a vital part of zoo . it be only just over 30 year ago that this zoo could have close . for the sake of global diversity , it be essential that we see our zoo thrive — and all the facility that go with that and , as I say , the underpinning research . my hon . Friend refer to the programme on Sumatran tiger , one of the most endangered specie in the world . Mr Deputy Speaker , I have the great privilege last year of feed one of those Sumatran tiger . I have to admit that it be somewhat at arm ' s length , understandably , and through bar , but it be an amazing experience . we need to recognise that the work that happen in this country support the work that be be do around the world , and that be why I shall continue to support any zoo . in particular , it be why I have be so keen to support my hon . friend ' s Bill and to make sure that London zoo have an opportunity not only to keep these animal alive and well , but to thrive . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) on bring forward this Bill and on the amazing way that he deal with so many intervention on a range of technicality that have push not only his knowledge , but the knowledge of all of we in respect of London zoo . we know that zoo have change very much over the year . they be far from be what they once be : some of we would think they be cruel place where animal be keep in condition that would now be deem unacceptable . we have a proud record in this country of zoo and safari park be place of education , protection , conservation and enjoyment . the London Zoological Society might be a bit of a trek for many from my constituency of Darlington . I think our near zoo be at Flamingo Land , near Pickering , in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) . this debate be an excellent opportunity to highlight to my constituent who be come to London for whatever reason that they could add London zoo to the list of place that they want to visit . I know that much of the work that our zoo do , particularly London zoo , be groundbreake and vital to conservation . they ensure that the child of the future can see animal such as Nelly the elephant , Bilbo the baboon , Fletchie the flamingo and , indeed , Patronella the pangolin , to observe their beauty and learn more about these amazing creature , but we must ensure that worry about London zoo ' s lease be put to rest . while prepare for this debate , it have be quite fascinating to learn that London zoo be lead the way in protect pangolin , which be the most trafficked animal in the world , with one be poach almost every five minute . London zoo be a lead partner in their protection , restoration and ecosystem and work alongside those live with these beautiful , shy and critically endanger creature . the work on pangolin be a great example of the international reach of our precious asset of London zoo . I wonder what the need be for that protection . why be pangolin so endangered and what be it that we be do in London and internationally to protect they ? I know very little about pangolin , but what I have read in preparation for this debate would indicate that they be traffic for their scale and meat in the far east . when I attend the convention on international trade in endangered species conference back in 2016 , pangolin be the big issue . as my hon . friend rightly say , people assume that their scale be of benefit , but they be also a delicacy . pangolin be brilliant at protect themselves against predator by roll up into a ball . unfortunately , that make they the easy animal to pick up and poach , and that be why the ongoing work be so critical . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for her clarification . it be right that we do much in this place to protect animal , include the dog and cat that we have do so much good work for already this morning by pass the Pet Abduction Bill . indeed , through a relatively dry Bill about lease reform and the Crown Estate , we can do something that help conservation around the world . we must help to ensure that London zoo can continue its good work by amend the Crown Estate Act 1961 and increase the society ' s lease on that land to 150 year . then anxietie about its tenure can go away , and the society can continue to be a place of enjoyment , lead the way in all it do . I be pleased to support the Bill . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate , and I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) on the progress make on the Bill , which have all our support . of course we should extend the lease . to echo the point that have be make about London zoo , it be 200 year old — the old zoo in the world . it have humble beginning , I be sure , as a sort of entertainment for the public , and it have become an incredibly important conservation charity of great global importance . while my hon . friend be speak , I think of how , as barbarism take over the world , learning and culture retreat into the medieval monastery . it be almost as if the endanger specie of the world have be save by some of these zoological institution , and be then able to return . it be interested to hear about the specie that have be save or preserve — kingfisher , tiger , the quagga . well , I be sorry to hear that the zoo do not in fact help to save the quagga , but at least it have some photograph of it , which be encouraging . I do not know about the mountain chicken , and I have no idea of the story of Winnie the Pooh . I be only sorry that Winnie do not stay on Salisbury plain , which be part of my constituency , where we would have give he or her a happy life . it be a very good thing that Winnie end up in London zoo , and we can all be very proud of that . I commend the Bill . the zoo be an historic institution , which be one of the reason we should be so proud of it , and it have a very bright future . I be encourage to hear from my hon . friend about the plan for the zoo . I be not aware that Matthew Gould have take over as chief executive . I know he slightly when I be a civil servant at the Department for Culture , Media and Sport and he be in charge of the nation ' s digital policy . it be amazing how people move around in our elite . why should he not be run the zoo ? he be obviously do a great job , and I commend the plan for it that I hear about , and the skill that he bring from his background . I be interested and inspire by what I hear about the modernisation of the zoo ; it be look forward , and use digital skill and immersive technology to give visitor an enhance experience that get they close to the reality of the natural habitat that these animal come from , and to which we hope that they or their descendant will be able to return . what I hear be encouraging . I totally agree with my hon . friend ' s argument that to raise the capital that be need for long - term investment on the site , the investor who finance that work will need certainty that the zoo will be around long enough . this change be the right thing to do , and I echo the point that it would be nice if the zoo be there in perpetuity with a freehold . I commend the Bill . I be pleased that member across the House support it , and I will be happy to do so myself . it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Devizes ( Danny Kruger ) . he give an excellent speech , and I must say that there be a certain air of a victorian zookeeper about he today . it be a pleasure to speak in favour of the Bill , which I support . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) on bring it forward ; it be the right thing to do . this be a very small piece of legislation — a tiny blip on the legislative agenda , only a few line long — but it be important that we amend the Crown Estate Act 1961 to increase the maximum term of lease . as we have hear , the change we be make do not automatically grant ZSL a lease of 150 year , but crucially — I be look at the Minister — it allow the Department to offer this length of lease in the future . this be important for so many reason , as be capably cover by the previous speaker . it be a UK institution , but also a groundbreaker internationally as the world ' s first scientific zoo . the Zoological Society of London be an international conservation charity that save animal that be on the brink of extinction , protect specie and restore ecosystem . it be also much more than that , as my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East describe . the tourism that ZSL London zoo bring to the UK be phenomenal ; it provide £ 24 million to our economy every year , and that be just its specific impact on tourism ; there be its wide tourism pull , as one of many institution in London that tourist come to . my hon . friend ' s constituency in Milton Keynes be far close and much well connect to London than mine . I wonder if he know how many of his constituent visit London zoo , and whether school in Milton Keynes North engage with the zoo to learn about its conservation work . that be a fantastic intervention . the short answer be no , so there be a huge opportunity for I to investigate whether school in Milton Keynes North have take the chance to visit ZSL London zoo . the educational benefit would be superb . on my hon . friend ' s point about connectivity and get to the zoo from his constituency and mine , I can only assume that he have not try Avanti train recently . on occasion , I be not sure that the journey from Darlington would be much slow than the journey from Milton Keynes . London zoo be one of the many attraction — educational , leisure or otherwise — in London , but it can be proud of its position as the 10th most popular tourist attraction in London . the zoo be about more than just education and tourism . a core function of its output be conservation , and it have global reach . it have conservation activity in over 70 country worldwide . we have see the reintroduction of many specie . all that work be bear out of the premise that we seek to support through this lease extension . on species reintroduction , I think in particular of the reintroduction of the partula snail . on conservation breeding programme , I think obviously of the northern bald ibis , a species that have not be mention yet , and the fen raft spider . the conservation breeding programme occur partly due to the reintroduction of the partula snail . the work do with conservationist in other country have mean a huge increase in support for wide reintroduction programme , such as for griffon vulture , hihi bird and amur tiger . we have already hear about Goldie the eagle and the story behind Winnie the Pooh , Jumbo the elephant — it be news to I that he add the word " jumbo " to our vocabulary — and Guy the gorilla . I be amuse to hear that Guy the gorilla only understand French , and that there be now a statue — rise — I will give way on foreign gorilla . it be obviously a matter of deep concern for the House that Guy the gorilla speak only French . I mean to intervene on my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) to ask whether Guy , at the end of his life , be bilingual . we will never know , but perhaps a clue can be find in whether the statue of Guy the gorilla be wear a beret . this change to section 7 of the Crown Estate Act 1961 — this small tweak to the lease length — will allow London zoo to operate in a much more future - proof way . it have ambition to create the world ' s first campus for nature . it want to reimagine the zoo as a series of natural landscape and , as my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East mention , it want to make the zoo truly accessible for all . that go to the heart of what we be do : we want to share the benefit with everybody for generation . I thank my hon . friend for give way on that issue . one of the ground for give ZSL planning permission for further work be that it would make available facility for people with special need , and child from the local area , who could use both the garden area and other zoo premise at a reduce price . as I mention , allow local people with special need to come in for £ 3 be a great contribution to allow community access . as we pursue these change , it be vital that community access continue . I be grateful for that intervention , which lead I to my wind - up remark — [ interruption . ] I can carry on if the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) wish I to . the zoo be a jewel in the crown of not just London tourism , but conservation generally . if we succeed in this attempt to allow it to extend its lease and bring in finance to secure its physical asset — the site — and its conservation and education work , do here in London and across the world , that will be of benefit to generation to come . I join in congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) on bring the Bill to this stage . hopefully it will pass today and make its way through to become law . it be yet another private Member ' s Bill that he have successfully shepherd through the House ; I will have to get some tip from he on how to follow his lead and come high in the ballot . I recognise the important role that the Zoological Society of London play as an international conservation charity . it restore wildlife in the UK and around the world , save animal threaten with extinction , protect specie and ecosystem , and conduct a lot of research internationally with partner . it also play a fundamental role in inspire the next generation of conservationist , which be obviously key . we be here to talk about the impact that the Bill could have on the zoo , and that bring we to the animal . in January , the annual stocktake take place at London zoo , which be no mean feat , give that it be home to over 300 different specie , from the endanger Galapagos giant tortoise — we hear about tortoise in an early debate — and asiatic lion , to critically endanger chinese giant salamander and Sumatran tiger . it be very good news that three asiatic lion cub be bear only a few week ago . that be a major boost to conservation , give that there be only around 600 to 700 such lion live in the wild . People will be reassure that the annual stocktake , which involve check how many animal there be and that they be still in the zoo , be part of the licence requirement to which the zoo be subject in order to ensure public protection . the kernel of this Bill be about safeguard the future of ZSL and its important work . the society have be very clear about the effect of the current lease ' s limitation , particularly on its ability to fundraise and create new partnership that will enable it to enhance its work , include the support programme that be available and the great community programme that my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East talk about , such as discretionary access and cheap ticket for local people to come to the zoo and see what be on offer . the benefit that a long lease would offer have also be set out by the society . as we consider extend the lease , it be obviously important that we capture those benefit and then hold the society to account on deliver they , should it be grant the lease . at its core , it be about have the world ' s first campus for nature , with a centre of research and innovation that be dedicate to protect biodiversity and strengthen nature , but it be also about enhance technology . I come across Matthew Gould when he be head of NHSX , where he do a lot of work in develop app and technology in the NHS . bring that knowledge and insight to the zoo in order to have more immersive experience would be highly commendable . the zoo be also look at accessibility . my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East talk about the offer to local community , but this be a world institution . it be one of the most visited attraction in the country , and I want my constituent in North West Norfolk , include child and people with special need , to be able to benefit from such offer . there be obviously travel cost involve , but come to see such a great facility be invaluable for they . as it happen , my first date with my wife be at London zoo . you animal . check out my surname . we have a lovely time , and obviously it pay off . my wife and I be at the zoo a few week ago with one of her friend and her young twin , and its ability to inspire be incredible . I watch those two little girl run off to look at the animal , and it be great . when my wife and I go on our first date , which be some time ago , we be a bit concerned about the state of the facility . some of the cage have sign to assure visitor that the animal be not in distress , even though they may have be pace backwards and forwards . there be an urgent need for modernisation , and when I go back a few week ago I note that some of the enclosure have be improve . I be think in particular of the penguin area , which be now a great facility and one of my favourite part of the zoo . a few member have speak about Guy the gorilla . I understand that his tooth decay be cause by he be feed sweet by people visit the zoo , so it be very important that only zookeeper should feed the animal . it be important to get that on the record . gorilla be herbivore , so they should only be feed by keeper , as my hon . friend rightly say . they should certainly not be feed sweet . do he realise that gorilla share 98 . 4 % of their dna with human being ? they be very close to human being . just as tooth decay in human be concern , particularly among young child who eat sweet , the same thing apply to gorilla . my hon . friend make a very interesting observation . I bet Guy could get a dentist ! from a sedentary position , the hon . Gentleman mention dentistry . I could talk about the need for more dentist and dental van in North West Norfolk , but that would obviously be beyond the scope of this debate — I will not encourage you to stand up to make I be quiet , Mr Deputy Speaker . as my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes North ( Ben Everitt ) have point out , this be an enable power ; there be no guarantee of an extension , with that come back to the plan put forward by the ZSL to convince people that it be deserve of this extension . it will be hold to account and so it will be able to go off to raise the fund to enhance this world - class facility . to conclude , have open in 1826 , the zoo will soon be celebrate 200 year . this important Bill will help to ensure that it continue to play the crucial role it have have since then in protect animal by provide well enclosure and well facility for they , and ensure that vital research continue , while remain a lead visitor attraction where people can come to learn more about our wonderful world . I call Sir Chris Bryant . I concur . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) for introduce this Bill on the ZSL and the maximum lease term that may be grant to it , which have now reach its concluding stage in the Commons . I also wish to thank my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) for cast his beady , expert eye over the Bill and for not move his amendment , which lead to a degree of shock and perhaps even gentle chaos . that should be see as a tribute to his fearsome reputation for ruthless and relentless scrutiny . I would like to see that mantle of scrutiny take up by my hon . friend the Members for Devizes ( Danny Kruger ) , for Broadland ( Jerome Mayhew ) , for North West Norfolk ( James Wild ) , for Milton Keynes North ( Ben Everitt ) and for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) , and my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) . it be good to hear her particular expertise , as a former Environment Secretary . I thank they for their scrutiny of the Bill . the amendment from my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) be about differentiate between residential area within the zoo and other property . obviously , some discussion have take place that I be not privy to , so I would be grateful if the Minister elaborate on what residential property there be within the zoo and whether they be purely there for the zookeeper . obviously , there be no work time directive for animal , as I believe one of my colleague say , so there be a case to be make in that regard , but it would be good to understand a little more about the footprint of the residential area . I will come on to that later in my speech . I understand that we be talk about three property , but I will probably contradict myself later . the Department for Culture , Media and Sport be the Government ' s sponsor of this Bill and our interest lie in the location of London zoo , in Regent ' s Park , where the propose extension of the maximum lease term grantable will be enact . Regent ' s Park be under the management of the Royal Parks charity , which be sponsor by my Department . ultimately , the eight royal park be own by the Crown , with responsibility for they rest with the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport . I take an interest also as a London Member of Parliament , as the Tourism Minister — my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East mention that the zoo be an important part of the visitor economy , both locally and nationally — and as I have two young child who would benefit from visit this tremendous attraction . we have recognise the importance of London zoo as a tourist attraction in its own right , but what be the Minister ' s thought about its fit with the wide tourist ecosystem within London and within the UK ? this debate have prove that simply by talk about London zoo we can learn about all the other animal - base visitor attraction across the country , include Flamingo Land near Darlington . the Bill propose a small amendment to the Crown Estate Act 1961 to extend the maximum lease grantable to the ZSL from 60 year to 150 year . although the lease be most recently renew in 2021 by the current maximum term of 60 year , as any well - manage and forward - think organisation should do , the ZSL wish far to extend the maximum lease term , in order to secure long - term investment and to continue to develop the historic site at Regent ' s Park . in an early intervention , I talk about the campaign that a number of colleague be involve in on Burlington House , where a lot of expert society be base . the freehold for that be the responsibility of the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities . we finally get agreement from the relevant Minister there to extend the lease to 999 year . I would be interested in any reflection that this Minister have on the comparison between that length of time and the 150 year propose in the Bill . my understanding , which I have gain during the course of this debate , be that the 150 - year lease be specific to the Crown Estate . I imagine that be for all sort of historical reason , but I be happy to go into those by write to my hon . friend . the government view the extension of the maximum lease term grantable to be a relatively uncontroversial change that will positively impact the organisation , allow it to build its resilience , develop strategic philanthropic relationship , and increase the scope of potential commercial partnership that will ensure its continue growth . it be also important to note that establish the mechanism for a long lease term will bring the Zoological Society of London into line with similar organisation that hold lease on Crown Estate land , include the Royal Botanic Gardens at Kew . the maximum allowable lease for the Royal Botanic Gardens in respect of land in Kew garden be extend from 31 year to 150 year follow the introduction of a Bill in 2019 . grant a maximum lease term of 150 year to the Zoological Society of London will significantly and positively impact the organisation ' s aim . for example , the society be at the forefront of effort to reverse biodiversity loss , which be one of the big challenge of our time . a long lease will allow for the creation of the world ' s first campus for nature , a trans - disciplinary centre of research and innovation dedicate to the protection of biodiversity and strengthen nature . it will also help to reimagine the zoo ' s landscape , provide ecosystem - drive space design with an understanding of how each animal now thrive , and provide the assurance that our most at - risk specie will be care for and protect well into the future . we talk a lot in this House and in Committees — I sit on the Environmental Audit Committee — about the challenge of biodiversity net loss across the world , as well as in this nation . about 70 % of biodiversity have be lose since I be bear in 1970 , but a lot of that be drive by climate change . would the Minister be able to expand a little on the zoo ' s plan to deal with climate change in its educational programme , while also deal with it in its programme to protect the long - term future of those specie ? my understanding be that part of the zoo ' s offer in relation to this lease extension be that it will deepen its partnership and relationship with some of the nearby institution , include local university and other scientific institution . I imagine that that share learning will help to advance our understanding of climate change and its impact on biodiversity . I should also note that this Government , through the Environment Act 2021 , bring in the concept of biodiversity net gain , with the impact of construction on wildlife offset by commitment from developer to enhance our local environment . the Zoological Society of London ' s future aim be befit of an organisation of its high calibre . the society will extend and contribute to London ' s knowledge quarter , which I have just refer to : an established landscape of world - lead science and research institution that span from Camden Town to Holborn and Covent Garden . the Zoological Society of London have always work closely with its neighbour — other world - class institution include University College London and the Royal Veterinary College . the society wish to deepen those connection to form a network of learning , knowledge sharing , and scientific exploration and practice . we be confident that the society have the ambition , expertise , place and drive to realise the opportunity ahead and bring this amazing , special campus to life . as conservation zoo , both London zoo and its sister site at Whipsnade care for more extinct - in - the - wild specie than any other zoo in the UK . London zoo be part of vital breeding programme for more than 100 endanger specie , from the Socorro dove to the Sumatran tiger . limit the maximum grantable lease term to 60 year would curtail the magnitude of the zoo ' s impact . as we have hear today , London zoo ' s animal have inspire a lifelong love of animal in its visitor for over two century . some notable name include Winnie , an american black bear deposit at the zoo in 1914 at the start of the first world war . as my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East have set out , she be visit by A . a . Milne and his son Christopher , and to this day live on in the story of Winnie - the - Pooh and Christopher Robin . as we have hear , there be also Guy the gorilla , speak of lyrically by my hon . friend . throughout the course of this debate , we have consistently refer to he as " Guy " the gorilla . however , he speak French , so surely it should be pronounce " Ghee " . that surely have to be one of the good intervention on record . I apologise , but I must correct the record : I should have pronounce Guy the gorilla lyrically , like my hon . friend . that be go in Hansard . that be true . as we have hear , Guy the gorilla would at first respond only to French , have spend the six month precede his arrival in a parisian zoo . his statue remain much love by the zoo ' s visitor . we have hear about Goldie the eagle , but I add to this collection my admiration for Ricky the rockhopper penguin , whom I meet when I be keeper for the day . I now find myself head to google the quagga , which I have not hear of before . the touching account of the life of Jumbo the elephant bring a solitary tear to my eye . that be quickly wipe away by the tale from my hon . friend the Member for North West Norfolk of how the wild animal of London zoo light inside his heart his inner wild animal . the Department for Culture , Media and Sport recognise the immense value that the Zoological Society of London have within London and the nation at large and wish to support all initiative to ensure it have a strong future . throughout its 195 - year history , London zoo have solidify its reputation as an important and unique part of our capital ' s heritage , culture and tourism offer . it be the capital ' s 10th most - visit attraction and contribute more than £ 24 million annually to the local economy and more than £ 54 million to the national economy . it be also the world ' s old scientific zoo , operate since 1828 , and a world - lead force in wildlife conservation and biodiversity . Charles Darwin , with his significant contribution to our understanding of science , become a fellow of the Zoological Society of London in 1839 . during his time at London zoo , he study the behaviour of animal and develop his revolutionary theory . today , Darwin ' s history be safeguard in London zoo ' s library , and the zoo also safeguard the pangolin , on which there have be extensive debate . the issue be close to my heart , as my niece and nephew hold a successful pangolin bake sale when they be most in the news . they be , as we have discuss , the world ' s most trafficked animal . just to clarify for Members , that be because of their value as bush meat and as a delicacy , and their scale be use in traditional medicine and their skin be use for boot and belt . my hon . friend be be generous in give way . the chief executive of the Zoological Society of London have say how the Bill will secure the future of ZSL and London zoo , ensure that they continue to inspire and educate million , to do world - lead science and conservation , and to keep strong an important and much - love institution . do she have a sense of the scale of the investment that extend the lease will unlock in term of the modernisation and improvement that will come from the world - class research facility that will be create through the Bill ? as we have hear from my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East , the Bill will unlock substantial investment in the site . it will lead to the renovation of historic list building , but also the creation of new , more appropriate habitat , now that we understand more about the animal that they contain . I firmly believe that the zoo be a historical asset worth championing and protect for future generation . from its beginning , many lead architect have contribute to the zoo ' s build environment . the collection of building include two grade I and eight grade II and grade II * list structure . the grade I list penguin enclosure design in the international modernist style by Berthold Lubetkin and construct in 1934 be describe by Historic England as : " a key symbol of british ( and International ) Modern Movement architecture " . advance in our understanding of animal welfare have show that many of the current structure within the zoo ' s premise be simply no long suitable for their intend purpose . although the zoo have achieve many first — include the first reptile house , public aquarium , insect house and child ' s zoo — work be ongoing to reimagine those space in innovative and sustainable way . throughout , the Zoological Society of London ' s effort will ensure its central aim of conservation and care for endangered specie remain at the core . the work of the society and the zoo support the environmental principle outline in the Environment Act 2021 . the continue existence of the zoo will preserve wildlife and other natural asset within its build environment and champion measure to reduce biodiversity loss . it be also important to note that the extension of the lease do not equate to extension of land occupy , and the remainder of Regent ' s Park will be unaffected by the change . there be reason to question our support of this Bill in respect of the impact on the public purse . I take this chance to confirm that neither the Zoological Society of London nor London zoo specifically receive any grant in aid from the Government . while the society be the recipient of research grant from Research England , the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office and the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs for international and domestic conservation work , those be apply for through official programme . there would therefore be no significant impact on Government funding or accrual of public debt if the organisation ' s maximum lease term be to be extend . as a charity , the Zoological Society of London raise the vast majority of its income from its member and visitor to its conservation zoo , include London zoo . additional field project , include its community access initiative and rhino bond scheme , be fund through partnership with funder across the globe . look forward , in 2028 London Zoo will celebrate 200 year since its opening , and I be sure I be not alone in wish it success in the next 200 year . continue modernisation and redevelopment will allow its animal to thrive , include through the development of the biodiversity campus to champion the need of nature across sector and to increase public engagement and learn opportunity . in addition to benefit its animal , research and scientific aim , an extension of the Zoological Society of London ' s lease for London zoo will provide essential opportunity to access nature , respite and wellbee for people of all age and every background . in the February half - term last year , London zoo ' s community access scheme enable over 50 , 000 people on low - income and other benefit to access the zoo for only £ 3 . accessibility be a core aim of the zoo , which also run audio - describe tour , sign - language tour and early opening morning aim at autistic and neurodiverse visitor . over 80 , 000 school student visit the zoo each year , learn about wildlife conservation and the effect of climate change and plastic pollution . protect the future of this organisation through the extension of the maximum lease term make sure that it will continue to educate and inspire the next generation . the Government be commit to support the Zoological Society of London ' s ambition to improve and invest to secure its continue role as a leader in the field . extend the lease term be part of that much - need support . we be sure that the Bill will offer the necessary support and protection to the Zoological Society of London and London zoo . I be very pleased to affirm our support for the Bill , and once again I thank my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East for bring it to the House . with the leave of the House , I thank my hon . friend the Minister for her contribution today and her support throughout the progress of the Bill , and the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) , for his very brief expression of support for the Bill . it be great to pass the Bill on a cross - party footing in this House , which send a signal to the other place that it have cross - party support . I thank my right hon . and hon . friend for the intervention that test my knowledge of the position and for their contribution to the debate . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) who , when she be Environment Secretary , be heavily involve in the construction of the Bill and give it her blessing . I must also thank my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) , who manage to propose an amendment to reduce the lease and then , during his speech , argue in favour of extend the lease . I know we often take contradictory position in debate , and he manage to do that today . I be grateful to he for not press his amendment and so allow we to move on to Third Reading . I draw the House ' s attention to one of the problem raise during the debate : that because of its inefficient building , London zoo ' s energy cost rise from £ 1 . 4 million in 2021 - 22 to £ 3 . 7 million the following year . the fact be that these old building house many endanger specie that need consistently high temperature . tiger can not put a jumper on or fill a hot water bottle ; they have to be provide with the heating appropriate to their specie . I thank Matthew Gould and his team for invite I to take the Bill through its Commons stage . I reiterate my thank to the Public Bill Office for its help , support and guidance during the Bill ' s progress , to my office and to my parliamentary assistant , Hattie Shoosmith , for her help in formulate my speech . I also thank the member who serve on the Bill Committee : my hon . friend the Member for Clwyd South ( Simon Baynes ) , the hon . member for Coatbridge , Chryston and Bellshill ( Steven Bonnar ) , my hon . friend the Member for Congleton ( Fiona Bruce ) , the hon . member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) , my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal , my hon . friend the Members for Copeland ( Trudy Harrison ) , and for Penrith and the Border ( Dr Hudson ) , the Minister for Media , Tourism and Creative Industries , my hon . friend the Member for Hornchurch and Upminster ( Julia Lopez ) , the hon . member for Warrington North ( Charlotte Nichols ) and for Lancaster and Fleetwood ( Cat Smith ) , my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) , my hon . friend the Member for North Herefordshire ( Sir Bill Wiggin ) and my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) . all those member give their support , and although we be not able to have a full second reading debate , I think we have test the Bill both in Committee and , very thoroughly , on Third Reading . I hope that it will now be pass without dissent , and that we can wish it Godspeed through the other place . no doubt their lordship will look at the Hansard report of our deliberation and allow it to proceed so that we can safeguard London zoo for the enjoyment of people long after we have all leave this Earth . we all welcome its conservation work and scientific research , and , of course , the joy that people gain from visit it to see endangered specie and specie that they would never see otherwise except on their television screen , and we all want to preserve that . we wish the Bill well , we wish London zoo well with its work , and I trust that we can ensure that the lease be extend as we wish it to be . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . Off - Road Vehicles ( registration ) Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . I have always believe that politician and political party should show leadership rather than simply follow public opinion , and that that leadership should be base on well - know value , principle and policy that have be communicate at the time of election . however , I also believe that if it become clear that something be have a detrimental impact on our constituent , it be our job to listen to they and do whatever we can to alleviate any suffering . the Bill may stand in my name , but I present it in honour of my constituent who lose his life when he be strike by an off - road vehicle . David Gow — also know as Davie — die on 12 February 2023 . I do not get to meet Davie , but I know his brother Allan , and I meet his son Craig when he approach I some time after his father ' s death . Craig Gow tell I that his dad have be cross the road to reach his home in High Possil when he be strike , on the road , by an off - road vehicle . that fact be not in dispute . an arrest be make but no charge have be bring , so I will say no more about what happen that day — which mean that I can not go into detail about why I think that the Bill would certainly reduce , if not prevent altogether , the incidence of similar tragedy . what I will say be that Davie Gow never get to celebrate his 80th birthday , and his family be leave devastate . I want to take a moment to celebrate Mr Gow ' s life by use the word of his son Craig , who say : " I could be here all day . firstly he be a devoted family man , a loyal friend and a fiercely independent and extremely intelligent man … full of life and full of carry on . " " carry on " be Glaswegian for fun , I suppose . Craig also say his father be " a real man ' s man . he … love a game of Dominoes " and " a good crossword or Quiz show … and when young he be a right good football player . I miss he every day and I know I always will . " Mr Gow die where he have live , in the flat that have previously be High Possil School , where he have be educate , as have his father , also David Gow . his grandchild , Cameron and Jessica , live nearby . three generation of the Gow family either live in the area or spend year be educate in the spot where Mr Gow die . he take great contentment from the fact that they all live in the area , and I hope his family can gain some peace from know that his death be not in vain and that he have motivate I to introduce the Bill . I join my hon . friend in offer condolence to the Gow family , not least to Councillor Allan Gow , David ' s brother and a constituent of mine . tragic accident such as these can often be avoid , and if a registration scheme be in place , the police could much more easily track down and identify vehicle owner to ensure justice can be do . while I be sure that many member will want to speak about their experience , we should acknowledge the work of our colleague in the Scottish Parliament , Bob Doris , who have take up these issue on behalf of the Gow family and other constituent in the north of Glasgow . I thank my hon . friend for those word , and I echo what he say about our colleague Bob Doris and Councillor Allan Gow . constituent in Glasgow North East have be call , email and message I about the antisocial and completely improper use of off - road vehicle , be that off - road motorbike , quad bike or high - power electric motorcycle . they simply can not get peace from they . thus , my Bill call for the compulsory registration of all off - road vehicle . I commend the hon . Lady for bring this Bill forward , because she have identify an important issue . the use of off - road motorbike especially , but also of high - power e - bike — battery bike — be a problem in Leyland . I be recently subject to some quite unpleasant antisocial behaviour from what look like young man on off - road bike with no registration . I have to follow they into the back of the Leyland estate , and , in be so discourteous to the people of Leyland , they nearly knock a child down . do the hon . Lady agree that anybody go out on the road on a vehicle that they should not be on , should think very hard ? I agree with the hon . Lady , although electric bike be not — yet — include in the Bill . accord to my mother , who be 84 , anybody on a bicycle should have to have a registration plate , so that she can report they to the police when they whizz past , disorientate she , on the pavement . I have say to she , " I ' m not include that , Mum " , but I join the hon . Lady in urge user of all power vehicle , and all pedal bike , to be courteous and aware of pedestrian . to be clear , the Bill be not a ban , or a clampdown , on fun . I know — well , I be tell — that off - road biking be fun , and I would like there to be somewhere , possibly in my constituency , for people who use they for fun to be able to do so safely without disturb the peace for resident . I also know that there be people who use they legitimately in their line of work , such as farmer and construction worker . this Bill be not about they ; it be about the people who choose to use off - road vehicle antisocially , dangerously and completely improperly . I will explain what I mean by that when I share the experience of some of my constituent . a compulsory registration scheme could help to alleviate the widespread theft of off - road vehicle from both rural and urban area , so my proposal could benefit those who use off - road vehicle correctly . get those vehicle register would hardly be the big deal in the world . in fact , that would most likely take place when they be initially purchase from dealer , much like the way our car be register . we all have to do paperwork that we do not want to do , but if it be for the benefit of the wide community , surely that be not too much to ask . when we say " off - road vehicle " in the Bill , we be talk about any vehicle specifically design to be use off - road — I suppose the clue be in the title — such as quad bike , trail bike , scrambler , and four - wheeled motorised buggy . the Bill give the Secretary of State the scope to define that in a non - exhaustive list . the hon . member for South Ribble ( Katherine Fletcher ) mention electric bike , which have become contentious as the technology move on ; there be a consultation on they at the moment . this Bill will include electric motorcycle , but not electric bicycle , which use electric motor as an aid to pedal power . however , if it be feel at some point in the future that the power in those bike be sufficient to require registration , the Bill would allow they to be include by a future Secretary of State . the Bill call for all off - road vehicle to be register in much the same way as car . it call for an identify mark to be require on each of these vehicle , similar to a car registration plate but tailor to the size and shape of the vehicle . we need to consult on how they might be fix to the vehicle and how that might affect their normal operation . the reason I be determined that a registration be display be that if we see a car without a registration plate , it will be immediately apparent that something be not right . it grab our attention and , more importantly , that of the police . it need to become the norm for off - road vehicle to have a visible mark , so that if it be remove or replace and do not match an identify mark from the body of the bike , the police can do something about it . the Bill have scope for an exemptions list . I have deliberately keep that open , because much as I have consult , the Secretary of State will be in a far well position to fully consult user ; I note that there be some concern in farming community . exemption could be make for those who use the vehicle in association with professional sporting body . Motorsport be expensive , and anything that add to the cost of enjoy it or deter people from take part must be take into consideration . I have consult widely with my constituent , who reply to my campaign in their hundred . they be overwhelmingly in favour of the Bill , for reason that will chime with many member here . child be unable to play outside because these vehicle be mount the pavement or race through the play park at speed of up to 60 mph . People be unable to sleep because it be happen through the night and the noise become unbearable . my constituent be unable to relax in their own home after a long day because they can not even hear the tv . old people be nervous about go out . I have talk about my mum , but I hear from a constituent who like to assist their 90 - year - old , visually - impair mum on a walk with the aid of her stroller . they can not do that now because of the number of these bike in the area . I congratulate the hon . Lady on bring this very important debate to the House . time be limited , so I want to intervene to welcome the debate . she be raise the issue of significant antisocial behaviour offence commit up and down the country . we be all aware of they . as we discuss early , I can guarantee that I will set up a taskforce with the Home Office and key stakeholder to get to the heart of the issue . some recent ASB work have be do by the Home Office , but I see no reason why we can not build upon that to address this specific issue and the impact it have on community across the country . I very much appreciate the conversation with the Minister and his remark . I be not somebody who stand here and say , " I demand that the law be change immediately . " I welcome any progress that we can make towards this . a taskforce be an excellent idea , because , of course , I do not have all the answer . by bring together expert and the people we need onside to make this work , progress will be make . I put on the record my support for what the hon . Lady be seek to do . many of we in the House be blight by this issue , and I welcome she bring forward this legislation . I appreciate that time be short , but I put on the record my sincere thank for the engagement with the Minister and the discussion about bring forward a group to look in serious detail at this scourge on our street . the hon . Lady be make an excellent speech , and I thank she sincerely for the Bill . I thank the hon . Gentleman . before the issue come to my attention , he be speak about and campaign on it , so I thank he for that on behalf of my constituent . littlehill golf course , in my constituency , be a fantastic facility , not least because it be accessible and affordable to low - income family , but it regularly become completely unusable when quad biker get in and wreck the green . I be bring forward this Bill because those family deserve to be able to have their leisure time . the green be keep beautifully and so much effort be put into they , but then someone , who nobody can identify , come in and wreck they . how lucky be my Barmulloch constituent to have family of deer and other wildlife in Robroyston Park , in the heart of their urban community , in the middle of many tenement ? they be not so lucky that off - road vehicle , speed through unfettered at all time of the night and day , have scare away the animal — it would be tragic if they do not come back . my constituent call the police but it be hard to catch the culprit . however , if they can give the police a registration number , the police can catch up with the culprit later , if not at once . if such vehicle do not have a registration number , their driver be in constant danger of be stop by the police anyway and have their vehicle possibly confiscate , even if they be not use they improperly . either way , the legislation would give the police and my constituent a far well chance of identify the culprit . the hon . Lady make an important point about the ability of these vehicle to be register and to display a registration plate as a means of identification . a compulsory registration scheme would , however , provide a deterrent to many off - road biker seek to abuse their vehicle because they would not be prepare to pay the money to register the vehicle in the first place . my intention be not to make registration financially prohibitive , but the hon . Gentleman be right that such a scheme would be a deterrent in other way . if people know they can not go around unidentified any long , then they be far less likely to get on to those vehicle in the first place . the people of Barmulloch , Balornock , Wallacewell , Milton , Possilpark , Lambhill , Springburn and anywhere else in my constituency , or anybody else ' s constituency , deserve to live in peace and to be safe . these be good people because so many of those who reply to I express concern about the people on the vehicle . while they be angry with they , they be also fearful that they too will end up injure or lose their life , just as Davie Gow do . I end by thank the Public Bill Office for its incredible help — I be laugh because I need a lot of help — and I thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for allow I to present the Bill in honour of Davie Gow . I extend my sympathy and that of the whole House to the family of David Gow . I have suffer personally as a result of the action of quad bike and motorbike , although my experience pale into insignificance in comparison with the consequence that the Gow family have suffer . before I come into the House , I run an outdoor leisure company that have 36 location around the United Kingdom . we be build on a new site in an urban park in the north of England , but during the construction phase it be terrorise — that be the good way to describe it — by teenaged boy on quad bike and motorbike . they be 100 % boy or young man , ride through the public park and , after the site be open , frightening pay member of the public who be walk around . it lead to concern , fear , include fear of injury , and increase cost . security concern at the site mean that 24 - hour dog patrol have to be recruit to protect this perfectly legitimate leisure activity . in my newly form constituency of Broadland and Fakenham , I visit quite recently the premise of Matt Pope Motorcycles — I be actually there to help with an issue relate to flooding — which sell off - road motorcycle . during our conversation , the owner talk about the risk of break - in , and of theft of off - road motorcycle . in part that be because they be not register and do not tend to have vin number as other vehicle do , make they much more susceptible to theft , even from very legitimate seller , such as Matt Pope Motorcycles . there be a significant problem here . I be very sympathetic to any legislation that we can collectively bring forward , or any progress towards legislation , to make it easy to discourage this deeply antisocial behaviour . when we consider legislation , as we all do in this House , there be a very obvious two - stage test that we should apply . first we should ask : be the problem that we seek to solve due to a lack of power for the enforcement authority , or a lack of enforcement of power by the enforce body ? if it be the former and not the latter , we move on to the next test , which be whether the legislation will solve the problem without do more harm than good . we should apply that two - stage , common - sense test to every piece of legislation . let I turn to the first question : be the problem here the lack of power for the police , or lack of enforcement of exist power ? I find two relevant section in the Road Traffic Act 1988 . the first be section 3 , under which it be an offence for a person ' s drive , include on motorcycle and quad bike , to cause alarm , distress or annoyance to other pedestrian and road user . that be very straightforward . section 34 deal specifically with off - road driving . as an aside , Mr Deputy Speaker , one of the great pleasure of these Friday sitting be that the research we have to do in order to make speech give we quite a lot of insight into legislation . I now know , Mr Deputy Speaker , that you do not commit an offence if you drive off the road , but only if you do so within 15 yard of the carriageway and for the purpose of parking . it be also interesting that in 1988 , the unit of measurement use in legislation be yard , not metre , yet we decimalise in 1971 . that be a slight tangent , but it be something that just spring to mind . turn back to my argument , we have the offence for the police to enforce . we see in section 59 ( 3 ) of the Police Reform Act 2002 what the police can do once that offence have be commit . section 59 ( 3 ) ( a ) be the power to stop those miscreant , and section 59 ( 3 ) ( b ) be the power to seize the vehicle , so the police already have the power to stop and to seize . section 59 ( 3 ) ( d ) be the power to use reasonable force to do so . section 59 ( 3 ) ( c ) be the power to enter domestic premise to enforce those power . if we take those in combination , it be pretty clear that this be a problem not of police power , but of enforcement . the question be therefore whether the Bill would help to increase enforcement . there be a very substantial argument that it would , for the reason the hon . Lady give , which be that many of we who be expose to this antisocial behaviour would be willing witness to the offence , and could take down a registration number and supply it to the police . it be then an issue of the police act effectively at beat manager level . some of what the hon . Gentleman be talk about would apply in England and Wales only ; that be one point . my feeling be that there be so many instance of this behaviour that the police would be keep incredibly busy . however , an offence of not display a registration , or of not register one of these vehicle , could be preventive , as he say . the police would have to catch someone not display a registration plate only once for the vehicle to be take off they . that would save the police from have to chase people multiple time for use the vehicle in antisocial way . I substantially agree with the hon . Lady . it be worth note in pass that under the Police Reform Act 2002 — I can not bring the section number to mind — the police be require to give a warning for the first offence . it be only when they be satisfied either that a warning have be give in similar circumstance in the past 12 month , or that a warning have be receive and ignore , that they move towards use the power that I have set out . I agree that a requirement to display registration plate may well act as a disincentive to commission that kind of offence . that bring we all back to the role of the police and what constitute effective community policing . just last week , I spend a morning out on the beat with the police , by car , to look at some of the crime hotspot in Broadland , and I be very pleased to say that there aren ' t any . over the last decade , and particularly during the tenure of the excellent police and crime commissioner Giles Orpen - Smellie , crime have fall significantly in Broadland . I be look up the datum , and in just the past year , crime overall have fall by 9 . 6 % in Norfolk , and residential burglary be down by 7 . 1 % , robbery by 9 . 2 % , violence against the person by 12 . 7 % , and stalking and harassment by 27 . 5 % . that just go to show that an effective police and crime commissioner such as Giles Orpen - Smellie , and a police force that focus on antisocial behaviour be a gateway crime to other , more serious crime , and that get involve early on , really do make a difference . as I should have say in my speech , I understand that a lot of antisocial behaviour come from have nothing to look forward to and few job prospect . I will not stand here and say , " this be all your fault . " we must get thing right for the — primarily — young people who be involve in such antisocial behaviour . there be load of example in my constituency of get it right , such as St Paul ' s Youth Forum , which in 10 year have reduce youth offend from 160 case to zero case a year . there be many more example . we have a responsibility to ensure that young people have fulfilment , excitement and satisfaction in life , so that they do not have to use off - road vehicle to get that excitement and satisfaction . I be grateful for that further intervention . of course , the hon . Lady be right that parenting be a difficult task . I speak as the not - particularly - brilliant parent of three child , although they be get old now , at 20 , 18 and 14 — I be very pleased that I get that right at the first time of ask . the challenge for every parent , no matter where they live in the country , be not just to engage their child but to teach they how to make their own entertainment . on the point make by my hon . friend and the hon . member for Glasgow North East ( Anne McLaughlin ) , the way ahead be surely the example cite in the debate of my hon . friend the Member for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) on 24 February by the hon . member for North Antrim ( Ian Paisley ) , who set out in very eloquent term how in North Antrim there be a pilot project for kid who have the problem identify by the hon . Lady and a passion for off - road vehicle — a passion identify by all of we in various different example . there be location where those individual could do that pastime in a safe way , and there be education on appropriate usage . that be surely the way ahead for tackle antisocial behaviour in tricky circumstance . the Minister be absolutely right , of course . I want to move on , but I will make one other point . yes , it can be very boring grow up where activity be not lay on , but the vast majority of teenage people do not commit offence . they do not choose to create antisocial behaviour . we can understand why that may happen , but those reason be not an excuse for that kind of behaviour . I will draw my remark to a close . I be very supportive of the Bill . I hear what the Minister say — that perhaps a taskforce be the right way to develop these idea far , and that the Bill may not be quite in the form that be most appropriate for legislation — but I be very supportive of the view behind it . I will just make a technical point . if the Bill proceed far , it should be note that there may be a drafting error in clause 1 ( 3 ) . it refer to section 21a ( 3 ) ( e ) of the Vehicle Excise and Registration Act 1994 . I think it may need to refer to section 21a ( 3 ) ( a ) , but I could be wrong . I echo the congratulation to my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow North East ( Anne McLaughlin ) on bring the Bill forward . I recognise her work on this issue over many year , and the work of our colleague Bob Doris in the Scottish Parliament , who have be mention . the reason for that work be the experience of our constituent . I extend my condolence to the family and friend of David Gow , and particularly his brother Allan . such tragic accident be the bad manifestation of what can happen , but they be not the only outcome of the improper use of off - road vehicle . there be many near miss or non - fatal but life - change injury and accident . sometimes those injury or fatality involve animal — today ' s business begin with question about the treatment and welfare of pet . there be also noise and air pollution . all of we will have hear our constituent ' concern about those thing . my hon . friend remind I that I have load of constituent — I do not know how I miss this out — who say they can no long let their dog run free off the lead when they be out for a walk because of off - road vehicle . that be outrageous , so I want to mention that . People tell I that in their dozen . I be sure those constituent would only be let their dog off the leash in area where that be permit ; that be regulate by council byelaw . that issue be also sometimes a source of concern . there be concern about the exact use or purpose of the vehicle . sometimes their use be about joyride — the thrill of the noise and the speed — but sometimes the vehicle be use for quick getaway from the scene of perhaps even more serious crime , or for the transport of illicit substance off - road . of course , police in on - road vehicle be not able to pursue they . we have hear about that , and many of we will have have personal experience of that . regrettably , we sometimes see off - road vehicle be use along the canal in Glasgow , to the great concern of many pedestrian and cycle user . the new sculpture , Bella the beithir , the mythical animal that have take up residence at the Stockingfield bridge , do not want to be disturb by the noise of off - road vehicle when she be try to sleep . my hon . friend propose some pretty straightforward and useful reform that would promote much more responsible use of off - road vehicle , and that would provide the police with additional power to crack down on irresponsible use . the burden should not be high — she say it will not be high — on people who use such vehicle responsibly and for legitimate purpose . certainly , they should have nothing to fear from the registration system . as she say , there could be legitimate exemption from the measure in certain circumstance . as I think the hon . member for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) say , the Bill would also have a deterrent effect on those , especially young people , who do not understand the responsibility that come with own and operate such a vehicle . importantly , the Bill would strengthen the police ' s hand considerably . it would make it easy to seize unregistered vehicle on the first offence — a point elaborate on in an exchange of intervention — and easy to track vehicle that be be use improperly . I know from speak to police in the north of Glasgow that the lack of power in this area be a source of frustration . the hon . Member be make an impassioned speech , and I put on record my condolence to the Gow family . there be two point to address some of his issue . first , there be thousand of law - abide user , represent by group such as the Auto - Cycle Union and the Green Lane Association , who would be keen to have the differentiation between the criminal clearly commit antisocial behaviour and other thing , and the thousand upon thousand who be act normally . the point that I want to take away with the taskforce be that there be already 38 , 000 of these vehicle up and down the country on the voluntary register . it be not very well know that we have that voluntary register and , with respect , if we could expand it dramatically through coercion , nudging and other method , that would make a massive difference straightaway . I thank the Minister for his constructive engagement in the debate . it be regrettable that time be so against we . I hope that progress can be make , with these external representative body have an opportunity to engage with his taskforce , and that he will engage constructively with colleague in the devolved institution . we be come up against some of the clash between devolved and reserved responsibility . the police in Glasgow try to use antisocial behaviour power and other that they have in legislation govern by Holyrood , but we know that they would prefer to see further progress make down here . in the interest of consensus and try to make that progress , I will leave it there , in the hope that another couple of member can make their point . may I extend my condolence to the family of David Gow ? I congratulate the hon . member for Glasgow North East ( Anne McLaughlin ) on secure the Bill on an issue of deep concern in Darlington . I prepare a fantastic speech that be so long I will not have time to get through it , but I will try to put some point on the record . I warmly welcome the engagement that I have have with the Minister on this topic in the past few day . it be so refreshing to have have that engagement and to hear of his willingness to bring forward a taskforce , which might have some pilot across the country . may I suggest two location for his taskforce to look at ? one would be in Glasgow and the second would be in Darlington . it be wonderful to be able to make policy for a Department for which I be not responsible . I be clearly respond for the Department for Transport — a worthy and honourable Department that I be delighted to represent — but so much of this issue be link to the Home Office . I hope to sit down with the Policing Minister , who run the ASB work be do presently . there have be two laudable recommendation for potential pilot project in Glasgow — I know Robroyston well , have spend some time there on 7 November 2009 for the by - election in which Ruth Davidson feature so honourably — and Darlington . I would be delighted to visit my hon . friend in Darlington — he be just down the road from I — to see some of the problem at first hand and make those recommendation to the Policing Minister . I be grateful for that intervention from the Minister , who be the first Minister to come and visit I in Darlington after I be elect . he have make repeat visit in his various role , and he be always welcome as he trek up past my constituency . I would warmly welcome he meet Darlington Borough Council ' s civic enforcement team as well as the operation endurance team from Darlington , and Durham constabulary . they have be do amazing work in this area , but it be not enough . I be conscious of the time and I be not sure whether the Minister will have time to wind up the debate , so I will waive my place in the debate and let my hon . friend finish his speech . do he agree that it would be great to get the Minister to commit to ensure that the taskforce he be set up , which be incredibly welcome , will , on behalf of rural community such as mine , look at the blight of off - road vehicle on the green lane that he mention ? it be a good thing that many byway and bridlepath have now be protect from off - road vehicle , but there be 7 , 000 mile of track in the UK — many of they be in Wiltshire — which be devastate by 4x4s , quad bike and off - road vehicle , which be cause huge damage . do he agree that it would be good if the taskforce review the legislation so that we can try to get more of those lane protect ? I wholeheartedly agree with my hon . friend . I represent an entirely urban constituency that face the blight of this problem . I appreciate and understand that there be significant issue in the countryside from the use of these vehicle . there be also significant issue for our farming and rural constituency with the theft of these vehicle . there be an intervention early about engagement , and I have recently meet the National Motorcyclists Council and the Trail Riders Fellowship on this issue , but I put on the record and want to be absolutely clear that off - road bike be mean to be use in a lawful manner for off - road biking , trail riding and competition . I have no desire to stop those legal and lawful activity . I have no truck with the lawful use of off - road bike ; my concern come from seek to address the concern of thousand of my resident whose life be blight by these vehicle . it be as clear as day to I that register vehicle will help to end the terrorising of our street and well enable police force to tackle the problem of these bike rip through their community . just to bring the House up to speed follow my Westminster Hall debate on this issue , there be a discussion about whether farming community would be oppose to registration . follow that debate , I write to the NFU . I have include part of the letter back from the NFU in my speech , but there will not be time to cover it . I will happily furnish the Minister with a copy of that letter . my hon . friend will be conscious that the Equipment Theft ( Prevention ) Act 2023 , which start as a private member ' s Bill from my hon . friend the Member for Buckingham ( Greg Smith ) , address a lot of those issue . as someone who represent the second - big constituency in England and who have many issue with byway open to all traffic , particularly in Slaley forest , I know that the practical reality be that the rural implication of this Bill be just as significant , albeit different . I be grateful to the Minister for that intervention . it demonstrate where town and country can bring their respective voice to this place to tackle an issue that affect all community . off - road bike and quad bike be great piece of equipment . they be great for go scramble or get around rural farmland . essentially , that be their legal and intended purpose . they be not design to be use on our street by people intent on cause terror and fear . they be not design to be use by criminal wear balaclavas or mask to evade police detection . they be not design to create a noise nuisance and safety fear in our community , but in Darlington that be precisely what we see happen . I know from speak to colleague across the House that they see it too . these reckless biker have no care for other , and nor do they seem to care about themselves when they opt not to wear a helmet , but instead a balaclava , for no other reason than to protect their identity . they sail through red light , ride on pavement and display no light — it be a miracle that we in Darlington have not see the tragedy that the hon . member for Glasgow North East have see . I have already pay tribute to the work of Durham constabulary and the Darlington civic enforcement team for their work on Operation Endurance use section 59 order , but on its own that be not enough , and neither be registration nor track the vehicle . we need a co - ordinate approach from multiple Departments across Government to tackle this problem . I will make one small political point . we have see a tail - off in 101 call to Durham police because of the call handling time . Durham constabulary be oversee by a Labour police and crime commissioner , and we have see poor service and performance from she . that be why I be keen for we to see on 2 May the election of Rob Potts , the conservative candidate to be Durham ' s police and crime commissioner . he have commit to endorse Operation Endurance and reform those 101 response time . it be clear to I that when vehicle be register , the possibility of people misuse they be less , so I support the Bill . this have be mention , but I recently learn of the voluntary scheme in — the debate stand adjourn ( Standing Order No . 11 ( 2 ) ) . order , that the debate be resume on Friday 17 May . public Sector Exit Payments ( Limitation ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 26 April . Green Belt ( Protection ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 26 April . autism ( Early Identification ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 21 June . high Education ( Student Finance and Skills Shortages ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 21 June . Nuclear Veterans ( Compensation ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 21 June . miner ' Strike ( Pardons ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 21 June . Health and Equality act ( amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 26 April . Greater London Low Emission Zone Charging ( Amendment ) Bill Resumption of adjourned debate on question ( 22 March ) , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . debate to be resume on Friday 26 April . whistleblowe Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 26 April . Highways Act 1980 ( Amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 26 April . Covid - 19 Vaccine Damage Payments Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 26 April . Statutory Instruments Act 1946 ( amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 26 April . dangerous Dogs Act 1991 ( amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 26 April . exemption from Value Added Tax ( Miscellaneous Provisions ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 26 April . Covid - 19 Vaccine Diagnosis and Treatment Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 26 April . Caravan Site Licensing ( Exemption of Motor Homes ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 26 April . NHS England ( Alternative Treatment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 26 April . British Broadcasting Corporation ( Privatisation ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 26 April . child ' s Clothing ( Value Added Tax ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 26 April . Regulatory Impact assessment Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 26 April . Barnett Formula ( Replacement ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 26 April . rule of Law ( Enforcement by Public Authorities ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 26 April . Illegal Immigration ( Offences ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 26 April . National Health Service Co - Funding and Co - Payment Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 26 April . Caravan site Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 26 April . Domestic Energy ( Value Added Tax ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 26 April . child Criminal Exploitation Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 26 April . veteran ( Non - custodial Sentences ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 21 June . Petition - Recommendations of the Infected Blood Inquiry I rise to present a petition on behalf of everyone affect by the infected blood scandal , particularly those who be my constituent in West Lancashire . I pay particular tribute to my constituent Rosemary Kirk , who bravely share with I her story of how she lose her mother to this scandal , and to my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , who have fight tirelessly for justice for those infected and affected . I also thank the Terrence Higgins Trust for its work in this area , and for its help and support to I on this issue . too little movement have be make since we vote on this matter last December . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of West Lancashire , declare that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait far too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002953 ] age - dispute Refugee Children Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mark Jenkinson . ) it be a privilege to have secure this Adjournment debate on age - dispute refugee child . I should declare at the outset that I be an officer of the all - party parliamentary group on refugee . I know the Minister will agree that there be few issue more important than the safety of child , but the current system for deal with age - dispute refugee child be let many of they down , with their safety and wellbeing put at risk as a result . the Helen Bamber Foundation , the Humans for Rights Network and the Refugee Council have obtain datum show that over an 18 - month period between January 2022 and June 2023 , more than 1 , 300 child be wrongly assess to be adult by the Home Office . such incorrect assessment be usually the product of a short visual examination make by a border official almost immediately after the child arrive in the UK . incorrect assessment result in child be place in adult accommodation and immigration detention , expose they to significant safeguarding risk and deny they the support they need to rebuild a life that have already be distort by trauma and hardship . of specific concern be the case of child be send to Wethersfield or end up in adult prison . I will return to that point in great detail later , but I will first explain why the current process for assess the age of asylum seeker be problematic . before I do so , I thank the Refugee Council for the information it have provide to I in advance of this debate . I also sincerely thank Omer , Motawakil and Amanual , three young refugee wrongly assess as adult , who be kind enough to meet I early this afternoon to share their experience and who be in the Gallery . I respectfully encourage the Minister to reach out to the Refugee Council to see whether it can facilitate a similar meeting for she , as I find my meeting both eye - opening and deeply move . let I turn back to the issue of flawed assessment process for child seek asylum . the issue emerge from the fact that many child seek asylum arrive here without a passport or birth certificate , often because they have never have such documentation or because it be take from they during their journey to the UK . in other case , they flee such trauma that they be unable to collect any of their documentation . I understand that if a young person arrive here without ID , it can be difficult to determine their age , and no system for do so will be perfect , but charity also tell I of child arrive with ID , only to have it immediately set aside at the border . as I understand it , the current model place the power to change a young asylum seeker ' s life in the hand of a border official conduct an age assessment base , accord to Home Office guidance , on a person ' s " appearance and demeanour " . if say border official believe that the asylum seeker be the age they claim to be — and different border official ' judgment will be hugely variable — they be place into the care of the local authority , where further age assessment carry out by qualified social worker can take place if necessary , and where support network be more readily available . if , however , the border official believe that a person ' s appearance and demeanour very strongly suggest that they be significantly over 18 , that person will face an age interview at a processing centre in Dover . it be not just refugee charity that have raise concern about this process . even the Home Office ' s own guidance make it clear that physical appearance be a notoriously unreliable basis for assessment of chronological age , and that demeanour can also be notoriously unreliable . what be more , the independent chief inspector of border and immigration have describe age assessment be undertake at port as " perfunctory " . beyond the visual assessment , I be aware that many refugee who have be through the process have raise concern about the interview that have be undertake . their experience include not be provide with the correct interpreter , be call liar and face inappropriate comment about their physical appearance . this be unacceptable , and the reason it be so worrying be that the stake be so high . when child be incorrectly assess as adult , they be place into poorly supervise adult accommodation , hotel and detention centre . the safeguard risk for such child be obvious : some be as young as 14 , share living accommodation with unrelated adult . tragically , there have be multiple case of these child be sexually and physically assault . other child have witness suicide or self - harm by the traumatise adult they be live with , who be in need of help themselves . even if they avoid that , child in such setting still miss out on access to the pastoral and educational support that they need to rebuild their life . many have report be stick in their hotel room for day on end , with little or no information on how to challenge their age assessment and no certainty about their future . the toll this take on their mental health and wellbeing be huge . of the safeguarding referral make to the Refugee Council relate to potential child stay in adult accommodation , the highest report risk be suicide . the second high risk be that the child abscond and we lose all sight of they , not know whether they have become homeless , destitute or exploit by someone offer they accommodation elsewhere . this be not alarmist : it be happen . I be afraid to say that the Government ' s recent illegal migration legislation pose further risk — chief among they that child will be inadvertently send to Rwanda . we know that last year , there be numerous case of child who have be detain as adult be issue with notice of intent to remove they to Rwanda on flight that ultimately never take off . the Government recently reject Baroness Lister ' s amendment to the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill , which would have ensure that child who have be wrongly assess as adult by the Home Office would not be remove to Rwanda while that decision be still be challenge . in light of that , I would be grateful if the Minister could provide assurance that appeal right regard age assessment will be grant , and I implore she to ensure that people appeal their decision will not be remove until that process have take place . those seem like reasonable step to avoid traumatise child wrongly be send halfway across the world . as well as address this issue , I be sure that in her response the Minister will want to talk about some of the measure the Government have put in place to improve the age assessment process . I know that these include the recent authorisation of x - ray and MRI scan in what be be call scientific age assessment , and the establishment of a national age assessment board . will the Minister address the concern of the Refugee Council that the national age assessment board will not work with people who have just arrive in the UK , and therefore will not impact initial age decision ? can the Minister refer to any evidence show that the use of x - ray or MRIs be more accurate than Merton - compliant age assessment carry out by qualified social worker , which be favour by charity work in the refugee sector ? will the Minister explain what happen if an asylum seeker refuse an x - ray or MRI scan ? there be an important principle that medical consent should not be seek from a person under duress . give possible issue with the proposal put forward by the Government , will the Minister consider request from the Refugee Council and other to limit the conduct of age assessment to fully qualified staff with relevant training ? on the safeguarding issue that I mention early , I hope the Minister will consider ensure that the Home Office monitor what happen to people claim to be child whom the Home Office have determine be adult , and establish proper process so that the Department can track the outcome for those who be later find to be child . even if the Minister choose not to pursue those suggestion , I hope she will acknowledge that more need to be do to improve the age assessment process for young asylum seeker . I will end by reiterate what these child have be through . they have be drive away from their home and the place they love by violence and persecution , separate from family and friend , and force to undertake an often perilous journey to the UK . those child should not face new risk to their safety when they get here , and they should not be throw into the terrifying limbo that be the adult asylum detention system . they should be greet with fairness and decency when they reach these shore . I be sure the Minister would agree that those be fundamentally british value , so I look forward to hear how the Government will uphold they when reform age assessment process for young asylum seeker . I thank the hon . member for Stretford and Urmston ( Andrew Western ) for secure this debate and for the sensitive way he present these issue . fairness and decency should indeed sit at the heart of our immigration and asylum system , particularly when it involve child . it might be helpful if I set out in general term the Government ' s approach to age assessment . as he observe , the age of a person arrive in the United Kingdom would normally be establish from the document with which they travel , but many who claim to be child do not have documentary evidence to support their age . I be sure there be no real point of disagreement between the Government and the opposition that there be serious safeguard risk if individual over the age of 18 be treat as child and place in setting with child . we all know about the high - profile case in Bournemouth last year of an adult man who be assess as be 14 year old and in fact be want for a double murder in Serbia . we obviously want to avoid situation of that nature , and we be aware of other example where pupil in school have raise an alarm about an obviously mature adult who have join their class purport to be a child — indeed , in one case someone be reassess to be 10 year old than their claim age . that reduce the valuable resource and support that be available to genuine child , and undermine public confidence . of course the Government have always be clear that there be serious equivalent safeguard risk if true child be treat as adult . I must point out that there be incentive for adult to claim to be under 18 , as unaccompanied child generally receive a high level of support than adult in several respect . that include the accommodation and support they be provide with , the level of care they receive , perhaps include therapeutic care , the procedural and substantive treatment of their immigration claim , the arrangement that be need to secure their possible removal , and whether or not they can be detain in immigration detention . the legislative reform that the Government be bring forward aim to make those assessment more consistent , reliable and robust from the outset . section 52 of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 make provision for the scientific method of age assessment . this be a new and vital tool for the assessment of age that the Government need to get right . the full plan for integrate scientific age assessment into the exist process will be set out very shortly . we accept that there be no single assessment method , scientific or otherwise , that can determine an individual ' s age . in response to the hon . Gentleman ' s challenge , scientific method offer the opportunity for significant improvement , which be something we should welcome wherever we sit in respect of this debate . it should also be note that the UK be one of the few european country that do not currently employ any scientific method of age assessment . the Immigration ( Age Assessments ) Regulations 2024 come into force in January this year . they specify the use of x - ray and mri of certain body area , include the wrist , to aid age estimation , as propose in the recommendation of the Age Estimation Science Advisory Committee . I hope I can reassure the hon . gentleman by say that this be an expert committee , consist of subject matter expert from a range of discipline include social work , dentistry and radiology , and establish by the Home Office ' s chief scientific adviser to provide expert advice on potential scientific method of assessment , as well as ethic and good practice for their use . can the Minister explain why the committee have encourage the Government to abandon scientific method of age assessment ? let I gently repeat that we be not go to do that . we be one of the only european country that do not employ any scientific method , and we be work towards the implementation of that . I think I give a fair caveat by accept that there be no single method that will ever be truly reliable , but a method can be use in conjunction with other . in due course I shall say something about the Merton test , to which the hon . Gentleman refer in his speech . in our view , this be not just important but vital progress in the fair and accurate assessment of age , which be relevant to exactly the kind of protection with which the hon . Gentleman be primarily concerned . the combination of dental and skeletal image be important , as it increase the accuracy of the approach . the committee advocate a likelihood ratio method which offer a logical and consistent summary of the evidence and permit great confidence in , particularly , the range of age assessment of whether the claim age be possible . give the scientific method specify in the regulation , when an individual refuse to consent — without reasonable ground — to the use of those method , a decision maker must take that refusal as damage the age - dispute person ' s credibility . this be refer to as a " negative inference " . it would not automatically preclude the individual from be consider to be a child ; that refusal would be take into consideration alongside other evidence as part of the Merton - compliant age assessment process . none the less , it will be relevant . let I also clarify the current process of initial age investigation . the hon . Gentleman be correct : on the individual ' s arrival , the initial assessment be undertake by an immigration officer . the threshold that must be apply be that immigration officer may treat an individual as an adult only when two member of Home Office staff determine that individual ' s physical appearance and demeanour strongly suggest that he or she be significantly over the age of 18 . that be a deliberately high threshold . the principle of the benefit of the doubt be key : when there be doubt , an individual will be treat as a child pende further observation and consideration by a local authority . that approach be confirm by the Supreme Court in the landmark case of BF ( Eritrea ) v . Secretary of State for the Home Department in 2021 . when doubt remain after the initial age assessment have be undertake , the local authority will conduct a more in - depth assessment , know as the Merton - compliant age assessment , to which the hon . Gentleman have already refer . Merton assessment be holistic , social worker - lead assessment that must adhere to principle that have be set out by the court in the case of r ( on the application of b ) v . London Borough of Merton — a well - establish public law case — as well as in subsequent case law . we know , however , that these test be not sufficiently precise . they depend entirely on oral question be put to the individual . in order to strengthen they , the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 allow local authority to refer age assessment to designate official of the Home Office who form the national age assessment board . the board , which be launch in March 2023 , currently consist of 42 expert social worker , and aim to increase capacity and expertise in the system until we have scientific method work alongside it . as well as conduct assessment for local authority , the board support they with training and good - practice advice . lastly , through the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , the Government have take step to ensure that the process be as robust as possible . section 58 of the Act introduce a regulation - make power that would allow the Secretary of State to set out the effect of a decision by an individual not to consent to the use of a specify scientific method for age assessment . those regulation could , in the future , specify that a person who refuse to consent without reasonable ground be to be treat as though the decision maker have decide that they be over the age of 18 . that power will not be use unless — and until — the Home Secretary determine that the science and analysis be sufficiently accurate to support provide for an automatic assumption of adulthood . under section 57 of the 2023 Act , judicial review will not suspend removal , to avoid lengthy age dispute delay or prevent removal of those who have be assess to be adult . in closing , once again I thank the hon . gentleman for secure the debate , raise what be indeed a sensitive issue , where accuracy really do matter . whatever the dispute , I think that we agree on that point . age assessment be critical not only to the integrity of our system , but , of course , to the protection of genuine child . we understand that it be crucial that these assessment be robust , consistent and well - evidence to ensure that genuine child be not incorrectly treat as adult , and that adult be disincentivise from knowingly misrepresent themselves as child . the Minister be be incredibly generous in give way again . to further the attempt at accuracy , may I press she on the point I make about further monitoring of those whose claim of be a child be reject at the border ? at the moment , we have no datum show how many of those decision be overturn later , other than that pull together by the charity I refer to early , who find that there be 1 , 300 between January 2022 and June 2023 , and I understand that there have be some 600 since then . it would be incredibly helpful if the Government be to start track and monitor that information . it would improve their own datum and , I think , take we some way towards have great certainty that they be on top of this issue . if the hon . Gentleman would be willing to write to the immigration Minister — I have try to think about which of the two it would apply to , but I will get my office to clarify that — I will , of course , relay what have happen in this debate and ask they to reply specifically with reference to the number and mis - categorisation that the Refugee Council have draw to his attention in that period . this be an important issue , and , as I have set out , one that the Government approach with the seriousness — and I hope the sensitivity — that this House would expect . question put and agree to . House adjourn .