I be grateful to be make my maiden speech in this debate on the great british Energy Bill . give my constituency ' s link to energy production at the Morecambe Bay gasfield , it be in a unique position to be a leader in clean green energy with offshore wind and tidal power . Spirit Energy have ambitious plan to convert our deplete gasfield and onshore terminal into a world - class carbon storage cluster . this project will support our net zero ambition , along with provide thousand of highly skilled green job in Cumbria , support the transition from oil and gas . the plan will bring a multi - billion - pound investment locally , promote growth and further regional investment that will assist we in make our local economy more sustainable . I congratulate all those who have make their maiden speech today , include my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) . it have be inspire to witness so many incredible maiden speech over the past few month . it have be fascinating to hear those gem of information about people and place , as member speak about their constituency with such passion , and the many varied path and often move story that have bring they to this House . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Simon fall . we disagree on many matter over the year , but his commitment to BAE Systems and the nuclear deterrent be clear and something on which we could both very much agree . his kind and generous advice during the election campaign be gratefully receive and I would encourage everyone in this House to behave in a similar manner . I wish my grandma could be here to see I today , as she would , like the rest of my family , be burst with pride . she would no doubt remind I of the time that she take I to the cinema when I be a toddler . I have decide to make myself comfortable , so I kick off my shoe to watch the film . part way through , I climb off my seat and , with instant regret , find that I have step on an ice cream lid . the cold and sticky ice cream quickly seep through my sock . so angry be four - year - old I that I turn to face the whole audience , and , with hand on hip , loudly demand to know who be responsible , declare that whoever it be should come and pick it up . my grandma be understandably mortify by my outburst during the film , and it be 20 year before she confess that it be her ice cream lid . I could not be prouder to be not only the first local to be elect as MP for Barrow and Furness , but the first ever female to hold this very privileged position . I start my career in banking way back in the ' 80 , but find very quickly that my passion would take I elsewhere . with an insuppressible drive to call out injustice , my mouth soon ensure that I be elect as our union rep , and within a couple of year I be ask to take on that role for the north - west region . I will never forget how I feel when my manager take I aside to tell I that , if I accept that responsibility , I could kiss goodbye to my career in banking . I do not need time to think about it ; I take the job . there be nothing in this world more likely to make I dig my heel in than a bully . my constituency be well know for many thing . we have be world leader in ironwork , with the founder of Barrow export railway to the world . they understand that , for a secure economy , we need more than one industry and create the jute manufacturing business that become a world leader in its own right . the ironwork eventually become a shipyard where we now build our nuclear deterrent , the most complex piece of engineering on the planet , and we be the only place in the UK that be capable of do that . we protect our nation — a source of great pride to we locally — with the industry that be the backbone of the economy in Barrow and Furness , and many other town across the UK , in a supply chain of ten of thousand of job . our coastline be home to many area of natural beauty and protect habitat — from Ravenglass , where people can explore on a mini steam train , visit Muncaster Castle with its rich history and bird of prey , or enjoy the truly unspoiled area that be the western Lake district ; all the way down to Walney Island nature reserve , with its adorable grey seal and stunning view , not least of which be its view of the island of Piel , which host its own king no less . tradition hold that the landlord of the sole pub , while sit in an ancient chair , carry a sword and wear a helmet , be crown by the pouring of alcohol over their head . shout out to John Murphy , our local historian and former Mayor of Burrow , for his fantastic walking tour to Piel . Morecambe bay and the Duddon estuary be our playground , and my hometown of Ulverston , which early this year be report to be one of the most vibrant town in the UK , be know as the festival town , and have well and truly earn its title . there be festival for everything from walk , Walkfest , to printing , Printfest ; comedy and music , with a tenuous link to Laurel and Hardy ' s " another Fine Mess " , Finefest ; and my favourite , the one I help to organise each year , Dickensian . the hashtag for that one make headline news in Japan , and I will leave member to work it out for themselves . [ laughter . ] I have be incredibly lucky that I be able to take time out when my child be little and build a business on the high street with my sister . those 20 year , through recession , online shopping , out - of - town retail and covid , be a steep learning curve , but one that I would not change for the world . our high street be one of my passion . they be the very heart of our community and Britain ' s big employer — worthy of nurture , protect and revitalise . I very much welcome our plan and the opportunity to support they in this Government . we have many famous son and daughter from Barrow and Furness . Stan Laurel , comedy giant and half of the duo Laurel and Hardy , be bear in Ulverston . my apology to my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) ; his town have be try to claim Stan Laurel for year , but he be definitely an Ulverston lad . Dalton , the ancient capital of Furness , be birthplace and early home of famous painter George Romney , and Tommy Johnson , the third - high goal scorer for Man City , who make five appearance for England and score in every single match . that might be a bit too far back for most to remember , because he be bear in 1901 , but other Barrow - bear football hero be Emlyn Hughes , whose statue now grace Abbey Road in Barrow , and Georgia Stanway , who I believe be now overdue her own statue for her achievement in the England squad . while we be on football , I have to say good luck to the Barrow Bluebirds in their upcoming match against Chelsea — you have great football gene on your side , so let ' s have it ! Sir John Barrow , famous son of Ulverston , become the second secretary to the admiralty — to you and I , that be in charge of the Navy . he write the report that become the basis for what we now know as the mutiny on the Bounty . he be the last man to shake Lord Nelson ' s hand as he depart on HMS Victory for Trafalgar , and be a great promotor of Arctic voyage of discovery , with many place around the globe now name after he , include Barrow strait , Cape Barrow and Point Barrow in Alaska , but oddly not barrow - in - furness . I have fight long and hard to give a voice to our resident as their councillor and mayor , and I have often be anger by decision that cost our community dearly . next week , our Lib Dem council will decide the fate of one of the busy library in Cumbria — the last remain community space that be free to use , where many community group ensure that a vital safety net be provide , and where no matter what someone ' s background or financial position be , they have a safe place to learn and achieve . I hope that the council will listen to the 3 , 000 - plus people who have sign a petition to save it , and decide to work with I and local business to secure its future . our local community group and third sector organisation have prove vital in recent year , and I be a strong believer that most problem have a solution at grassroots level , through community group such as the Roxy Collective , Drop Zone , Women ' s Community Matters , the Ulverston Resilience Group , Community Solutions , and Furness Refugee Support to name just a few — or Love Barrow Families , whose work be so life change for some that they return as volunteer to give that same gift to other . in my role as MP for Barrow and Furness , I want to give their voice more power . I want to bring community group together with resident and business , big and small , as that be how community work at its good , for the betterment of everyone in it . many mps make unique claim in their maiden speech . if I be a gambling woman , I would bet that I be the only MP to be married to a lighthouse keeper — I be hope the weather be okay back home , because he be sit in the Gallery now . [ laughter . ] my well half be the senior lighthouse keeper in charge of the Sir John Barrow monument , a copy of the Eddystone lighthouse that stand on top of Hoad hill and welcome the people of Furness home . finally , I encourage all hon . member to come and visit Barrow and Furness — but with a fair warning that several of they will , of course , feel obliged to return to this Chamber and correct the record on which be the good constituency .