Speaker ' s Statement before we begin , I should like to take a moment to remember that today be the 20th anniversary of the terrible London bombing in 2005 . the thought of the House today be with the victim and their family , and with the emergency service , London ' s NHS and the staff of Transport for London , who respond so bravely to the event on that day . I think we all remember where we be when that horrific news come through . oral Answers to Questions Home Department the Secretary of State be ask — Neighbourhood police what step she be take to deliver effective community police . what recent progress her Department have make on improve neighbourhood policing . I join you , Mr Speaker , in remember the 52 people who never come home on that terrible day , as we remember the 20th anniversary of the 7 / 7 London terrorist attack , and remember too all those whose life be change that day . I will say more on this matter during topical . the Government be rebuild neighbourhood police after it be decimate under the previous Government . this year we be put 3 , 000 more neighbourhood police and police community support officer back on the beat , back by £ 200 million of additional funding and detailed plan draw up by police force for increase patrol in town centre this summer . special constable play a vital role in visible community policing , but the number of special drop by over 700 between 2023 and 2024 , and we lose one in four in the same period in my constituency of Chichester , which be represent by Sussex police . will the Home Secretary consider practical incentive such as council tax relief or free local travel , like those that the Met police currently have , to support recruitment and retention of those special ? I welcome the hon . member ' s point about special . they play an extremely important role and the drop in the number of special across the country in the year before the one to which she refer be even steep . I be pleased that Sussex police be get not just 43 additional neighbourhood police officer , but a further 21 special into neighbourhood team this year . we will continue to look at what more we can do to increase support for special and get more on the beat . last week I join Blackpool police and our police and crime commissioner , Clive Grunshaw , under the iconic Blackpool tower to launch the safe street summer initiative in Blackpool . this have coincide with deliver the guarantee that every community in Blackpool will now have a name police officer and PCSO , which have be welcome across the community . can the Home Secretary confirm that my constituent will soon see more visible policing and regular foot patrol in our town centre , and , crucially , start to feel safe and more confident on the street of Blackpool ? my hon . friend be right , and he and I have talk to shop manager in his constituency about the importance of tackle town centre crime . it be why Lancashire police be get an additional 83 police officer and pcso into neighbourhood team this year . I strongly welcome the work they be do as part of the Government ' s safe street summer initiative to tackle shop theft and street assault ; do so can make so much difference to keep people safe . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . may I associate myself and my Committee with your word early , Mr Speaker , regard the 20th anniversary that we be mark today ? live facial recognition technology be an effective tool in community and neighbourhood police . we know that be be use effectively by the Metropolitan police , but other police force be nervous because they do not believe that the statutory underpinning be in place . can the Home Secretary provide some reassurance about what the Government will do to make sure this technology can be use effectively ? the Committee Chair be right that live facial recognition can play a role in keep community safe . as a result , the Minister for Policing have be meet not just police force but other organisation to ensure that we can draw up a new framework to give all police force the confidence to use facial recognition in the good way in order to keep community safe . we need good community police , but we also need good senior leadership team in our force . a recent review of Warwickshire police show the leadership and the force management need improvement , and that its response time be inadequate . would the Home Secretary look into Warwickshire police ? my hon . friend make an important point . we want to see standard raise across police and across all police force . that be why the police reform White Paper will set out new measure to improve performance management across all police force . Warwickshire be get an additional 22 police officer , pcso and special on to the street . I call the shadow Minister . may I join you , Mr Speaker , in mark the anniversary of the 7 / 7 London bombing ? our thought be with the victim and family , and all who do all they could to help those in need . yesterday , Met Police Commissioner Sir Mark Rowley call the spending review " disappointing " , highlight that he be be force to cut 1 , 700 officer and staff . policing may not be a priority for this Labour Government , but the last Government put a record number of police on our street . will the Home Secretary commit to keep total number of police officer above 147 , 746 , as it be under the last government — yes or no ? unfortunately , the trouble be that actually the Conservatives do not put police on the street . they may have try to reverse the massive cut that they have make to police after 2010 , but they do not put police on the street . neighbourhood policing be slash under the Conservatives and some area see neighbourhood policing halve as a result . I be glad to say that this year the Metropolitan police will put 470 additional neighbourhood police on the street , as a result of the support that they have be give . I think that be a failure to commit to that total number . during the passage of the Crime and Policing Bill , we ask the Government to stop our police have to investigate playground squabble and hurty word online as non - crime hate incident , and now senior police officer be join that call . merseyside chief constable , Serena Kennedy , have say : " Non - crime hate incident be have a disproportionate impact on trust and confidence in policing " . I realise that u - turn be quite fashionable for the government , so will the Home Secretary now finally scrap non - crime hate incident and save 60 , 000 hour of police time ? I should point out to the hon . Gentleman that police force be follow the guidance that the shadow Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) , draw up on this issue . we have a review that be happen under the College of Policing at the moment , but the shadow Minister refer to the Crime and Policing Bill , which be introduce new measure on stalk , spike , respect order , e - bike , off - road bike and a whole serious of different issue , and which sadly the Conservatives vote against — so much for care about tackle crime . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the good community policing be embed within community , respond to their need . whether it be attack on jewish - own business or hateful chant at music festival , there be too many sobering reminder of the reality of the antisemitism that too many within the jewish community across the UK be face right now . Home Office figure have show that religious hate crime be at record high , and that the number of hate crime specifically target jewish people have more than double . everyone deserve to feel safe in our society , and that must include british jewish community , so what step be the Home Secretary take to ensure that police have the training and resource need to effectively tackle antisemitic hate crime , while support survivor ? the hon . member be right to highlight the appalling increase in antisemitism , antisemitic hate crime and assault that take place after the event in the middle east . she will know that , in order to tackle antisemitism , we and the police work very closely with the Community Security Trust and we be introduce new measure to deal with intimidating protest outside synagogue . community Policing and Neighbourhood Health Teams what recent discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on the potential merit of integrate community policing and neighbourhood health team . my hon . friend speak with a great deal of experience in health matter . there be regular discussion between ministerial colleague about how we can well join up public service . we know that join - up working result in well outcome at a local level . collaboration and engagement between neighbourhood policing and neighbourhood health team already exist to tackle mental health issue , and drug and alcohol addiction . I hope that this Government ' s investment in neighbourhood policing will enable more of that work to continue . evidence show that integrate policing and health be vital in deliver well outcome in area like mental health , substance misuse and youth violence — area that we need to address in my city of York . with both police and health realigning into neighbourhood team , will the Home Secretary ensure that there be reach across the service , with a name lead police officer , to develop prevention and early intervention strategy , divert those at risk through harm reduction approach , include treatment and support ? with the recently launch 10 - year health plan , we be move away from those siloe service towards a more join - up approach , include the preventive model of care . that align very much with police and keep people safe , and support wellbee . I welcome the opportunity to contribute to the national neighbourhood health implementation programme and to ensure that policing be part of the conversation from the outset . by work more closely with health and care partner , we can reduce inappropriate demand on police . officer should not be leave to pick up the piece when other support service be well place to help . this be about get it right — and get that tailor support — first time . I thank the Policing Minister for visit Northallerton this year and hear directly from my farming constituent about the impact of livestock and equipment crime on their life and health . I be grateful to North Yorkshire police for all their hard work , and for the recent funding uplift for the national rural crime unit , but do the Minister agree with I on the importance of implement the Equipment Theft ( Prevention ) Act 2023 and , more broadly , ensure that rural area get the attention they deserve ? it be a pleasure to meet the right hon . Gentleman ' s constituent ; I think that be way back in February — it be a very cold day in North Yorkshire . I fully recognise what he say about the mental health and wellbeing impact of some of the crime challenge face rural community . that be why the neighbourhood policing guarantee be so important for area like the one that he represent . as I have say a number of time in this House , we support the implementation of the Equipment Theft ( Prevention ) Act , and we plan to bring forward regulation shortly . Qualifying Period for Settlement : impact on NHS staffing what discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on the potential impact of the propose increase to the standard qualifying period for settlement on NHS staffing level . this Government recognise and value the contribution that NHS staff make to our country . that be why , under the settlement proposal in the immigration White Paper , we have make it clear that individual will be able to reduce the standard 10 - year period base on their contribution to the UK ' s economy and society . we will consult on detailed proposal later this year . these be important change : we recognise how important this matter be , and we will listen to what people tell we in that consultation . an impact assessment will be develop alongside any finalise policy . I have be contact by constituent work in health and social care in Truro and Falmouth who be concerned about the propose change to the standard qualifying period . Dr Mohamed Abdelazim work as a doctor at the Royal Cornwall hospital NHS trust and have not quite complete the five - year eligibility period . he say the policy will directly and severely impact he and hundred of other frontline worker and that 10 year be a very long time to live on a visa without the security that citizenship would provide . will the propose increase in the eligibility period to 10 year impact my constituent retrospectively , and might they be able to reduce that period base on the contribution that the Minister mention ? I understand the concern raise by my hon . friend ' s constituent about the impact of the proposal . they be important change , which be why we will consult on the proposal and lie out more detail later in the year , include on any transitional arrangement . we understand the importance of clarity and fairness for those already contribute to public service , and we will provide further detail in due course . the Minister talk about concern raise by the constituent of the hon . member for Truro and Falmouth ( Jayne Kirkham ) . they be concern create by this Government not value people from different part of the world who serve in our national health service and social care system in Cumbria and elsewhere . will the Minister be much clear that this proposal will not be retrospective for people who underpin our health service in Cumbria and across the country ? will she be mindful of the impact on our health service if she go ahead with a decision — which , at the moment , it look like the Government be go to — that will hugely undermine the flow of worker who come here to support we and keep we all well ? may I gently disagree with the hon . Gentleman ? we do recognise the vital contribution of overseas NHS worker , and we have not yet define what contribution will reduce the period for settlement , but the propose change be subject to consultation . in addition , we be commit to ensure that the NHS remain support , while reduce long - term reliance on migration . domestic Abuse : Joint Tenancies what recent discussion she have have with the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government on protect domestic abuse victim from the perpetrator of that abuse with whom they share a joint tenancy . the Renters ' Rights Bill will allow individual to end joint tenancy , support domestic abuse victim to leave their abuser if they share a home . the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government have announce a £ 30 million increase to the domestic abuse safe accommodation grant , raise the total funding in 2025 - 26 to £ 160 million . my constituent molly be trap in the house where she be violently attack in front of her child . she be confine to live upstairs , because go into the room downstairs trigger her post - traumatic stress disorder . despite the perpetrator of this abuse rightfully be in prison and have a restraining order of five year , molly ' s landlord have tell she that they can not take he off the lease , so she can not move . can the Minister confirm that the Government be take step to ensure that victim of domestic abuse , like Molly , can move on with their life ? I thank my hon . friend for raise molly ' s case — our heart go out to she and her child for the trauma they be live with . her case raise many issue , include the need for early intervention in domestic abuse case , the need to improve therapeutic support for victim and , as my hon . friend have say , the desperate need for reform of the rule around property right in case of economic and domestic abuse , so that woman be not trap . I can not give my hon . friend immediate answer on all those issue today , but I can promise that they will all be include in our upcoming strategy on violence against woman and girl . while I have every sympathy with Molly and the million of woman who experience domestic abuse , accord to the ManKind Initiative , one in five man be also victim of domestic abuse . my constituent Mark and Adam be victim of serial female abuser who engage in not only psychological , physical and financial abuse , but sexual abuse as well . what be be do to make sure there be space for man in refuge , and that there be training for police to ensure they believe these man ? often , they be burly chap who have be in the Army , and people simply do not believe that they have be victim , which only compound the problem they face . we often refer to violence against woman and girl , as the term refer to a group of crime that be majoritively suffer by woman at the hand of man , but of course man be also victim — both from other man and from woman . the £ 30 million of extra funding that I mention in answer to the substantive question be for council to provide accommodation in case of domestic abuse under part 4 of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 . local area should be look at the need in their area and act accordingly . Fraud what recent assessment she have make of trend in the incidence of fraud . Fraud be the most commonly experienced crime in our country , and this Government will publish a new strategy to protect consumer and business later this year . before that , our Crime and Policing Bill will introduce new measure to fight fraud , include a ban on the use of SIM farm . I hope Opposition Members will support those measure . as the Minister say , fraud be the large volume category of crime ; it be come down under the last government , but over the past full year it have go back up again dramatically . the Online Safety Act 2023 be a landmark reform , but criminal will always seek new channel , so what will the Minister do in his new fraud plan to address that displace fraud , include that deliver through advertising on website not cover by the Act ? I be genuinely grateful to the right hon . gentleman for raise this important issue again . he be right : fraud account for over 43 % of all offence record by the crime survey for England and Wales . tackle fraud rely on collaboration between law enforcement , industry and Government Departments . that mean everyone play their part , and we continue to urge the tech and social medium company to take strong action to stop consumer be defraud when use their site . asylum Accommodation what step her Department be take to reduce the use of asylum accommodation . what step her Department be take to reduce the use of asylum accommodation . at the peak under the previous Government , there be 400 hotel in use across the country , at a cost of £ 9 million a day . thousand of asylum seeker be leave in limbo in those hotel as decision making collapse . that be the chaos that this Government inherit a year ago , but we have take action to restore order . we be cut the overall cost of asylum accommodation , and we be commit to end the use of these hotel entirely by the end of this Parliament . People be rightly concern by report that the Home Office be buy hotel to house asylum seeker . that appear to be completely at odd with the Government ' s manifesto pledge to end the use of hotel . will the Home Secretary or her Minister confirm to the House whether those report be true or not true ? will she reassure my constituent in Bridlington and the Wolds that there be no plan to house illegal migrant in facility in our local area ? the Home Office be not buy hotel . as for the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency , there be currently 61 service user house in his area , which be less than 15 % of the quota , and there be zero hotel . the Government may not be buy hotel , but it be fill they up with asylum seeker . the number have go up in the past year , not down , yet the Government say that they will reduce they to zero by the end of this Parliament . will the Minister confirm whether the commitment to end the use of asylum hotel by the end of this Parliament be a guarantee pledge on which we can judge their success or failure — yes or no ? by March this year , 15 % few people be in hotel accommodation than at the end of 2024 . we be save money on the chaos that we inherit from the Conservatives , and we have announce that we will end the use of hotel by the end of this Parliament . be private rent family home in socially and economically deprive area the right place for asylum seeker to be house ? be community impact of those placement be monitor , ready to inform policy if necessary ? I can assure my hon . friend that we keep all these issue under close monitoring , and we be do our good to ensure that individual area take their fair share of the burden when it come to look after people in our asylum system . just to reassure she , we have speed up asylum decision making . the system that we inherit be paralyse , and we be get it go again so that we can deal with this issue as quickly as possible . this Labour Government inherit a situation from the Conservatives where we be spend almost £ 9 million every single day on asylum hotel , include the Crewe Arms hotel in my constituency . will the Minister set out what step she be take to bring down those cost , as well as speed up decision making , so that we can reopen the Crewe Arms as a hotel ? we be as anxious as my hon . friend to end the use of asylum hotel , but the backlog we inherit from the Conservatives and the time it be take — decision making collapse by 70 % in the last three month of that Government — have make it hard to empty hotel than we think it would be at the beginning . however , we have speed up ; there have be a 116 % increase in initial asylum decision . we be speed up the system , we be get people through the system , and we will close all asylum hotel by the end of this Parliament . I call the shadow Home Secretary . I gently remind the Minister that the number of immigrant in asylum hotel have go up since the general election . I recently visit an asylum hotel and see bike from Deliveroo , just eat and Uber Eats in the hotel compound . local eyewitness confirm that the illegal immigrant in the hotel have be illegally work . that create a pull factor , because people smuggler actively market illegal working opportunity . it also create risk for woman and girl , who might receive delivery late at night from these undocumente illegal immigrant . will the Minister at least commit now to prevent this illegal working from take place from the hotel that she run ? we have have a 50 % increase in raid and arrest on illegal working since we come into government , so perhaps the shadow Home Secretary should have spend more time when he be in government enforce the rule on illegal working . we be do more , include extend the law on illegal working to the gig economy . that measure be in the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill , which he vote against . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . enable new refugee to prepare properly for life in the UK will be key to reduce the need for asylum accommodation . in my constituency we have see the extension of the move - on period not only give new refugee much - need time to make those preparation , but protect other public body such as the local authority from be leave to pick up the cost . we welcome the news last December of the Government ' s decision to trial a long move - on period for six month , but those six month have now come and go , and despite numerous request for an answer , the Government have provide no certainty on whether the trial will be extend . can the Minister provide clarity today ? as it happen , I can . we have extend the move - on trial until the end of the year . Temporary Worker Visas : Fish processing Sector if she will review the temporary worker visa regulation for the fish processing sector . the seasonal worker route be design to support the horticulture and poultry sector , both of which have short - term seasonal production peak . I discuss these issue with the Scottish Minister during my visit to peterhead fish market in February . there be not the same evidence of seasonal pattern in the fish processing sector , which would require significant but short - term increase in labour , but I be always happy to discuss these matter with colleague in the House . may I begin by acknowledge the passing of a giant of our movement , Mr Alex Sim from Peterhead , whose funeral be take place at the moment ? on Wednesday 5 March the Prime Minister tell I from the Dispatch Box , in answer to a question about the fishing industry in my constituency : " we … want to tackle the problem of labour shortage " . — [ Official Report , 5 March 2025 ; Vol . 763 , c . 280 . ] however , it be not just a question of fishing . last week , Moray chamber of commerce tell I of hospitality sector business closure , in some case relate to the inability to recruit key staff . can the Minister tell I what progress have be make in this vital area ? she have mention discussion with the Scottish Government , but when will we be inform of sector - specific progress ensure that these industry , which be cry out for help , receive it ? as the hon . Gentleman will know , we work closely on this issue with the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , but we must also focus on address the underlie cause of recruitment problem . we recognise the position in which some of our fishing community find themselves in relation to workforce challenge , but the hon . Gentleman will , I hope , welcome the news that through our new labour market evidence group we will be engage with devolved government in the gathering and sharing of datum and evidence on the state of the workforce , on training level and on participation by all part of the domestic labour market , so that we have an immigration system that be well informed and work for the whole United Kingdom . British National Overseas Visas : settlement Rules whether she plan to extend the qualifying settlement period for people with british national overseas visa . this Government be firmly committed to support exist member of the Hong Kong community in the United Kingdom and those who may come here in future . the new rule on earn settlement will be subject to consultation . follow that consultation we will outline the way in which the new rule will operate , explain , for instance , which immigration route they will affect and when the change will come in . many of my constituent come to the UK from Hong Kong under the BNO visa scheme in search of safety , freedom and opportunity . they have share with I their concern about how the uncertainty involve in the change in the visa system might affect their future here . can the Minister provide reassurance that those on BNO visa , in Milton Keynes and throughout the country , will continue to have security , stability and a clear route to permanent settlement ? my hon . friend be a strong and powerful advocate for member of the Hong Kong community in his constituency and throughout the UK . we recognise those concern , and we be take step to ensure that BNO visa holder have an opportunity to share their view during the consultation on the new earn settlement and citizenship rule . as I have say , follow that consultation the Government will outline the way in which the new rule will operate and the immigration route that they will affect . give the ambitious nature of these proposal , it be essential that we fully understand their impact on all affected group before make any final decision . in the meantime , the current rule for settlement under the BNO route will continue to apply . will the Minister clear up , once and for all , the further confusion over the propose change to the settlement period from five to 10 year ? will she clarify for the BNO visa holder live in my constituency whether the change will be apply retrospectively or only prospectively , and will she confirm that those who be already build their life in the UK and work in important sector in my constituency will not see their pathway to settlement unfairly change mid - journey ? the BNO route reflect the UK ' s historic and moral commitment to the people of Hong Kong who choose to retain their tie to the UK by take up BNO status . as I have outline , we will have a consultation . we will ensure that BNO visa holder have the opportunity to share their view during that consultation , and we will listen to those view very closely . neighbourhood policing : Leigh and Atherton what recent progress her Department have make on improve neighbourhood police in Leigh and Atherton constituency . the Government be introduce a neighbourhood policing guarantee , which mean that all community will have name and contactable officer from the end of this month , and we be expand neighbourhood policing , include by deliver 176 new neighbourhood officer this year for the Greater Manchester police force , which cover the Leigh and Atherton constituency . as a proud Co - op Member , I commend the long - stand campaign for well protection for retail worker . USDAW ' s National Retail Workers ' day , which take place this weekend , highlight the essential role that retail play in all our community . will the Minister join I in thank retail worker in Leigh and Atherton and across the UK ? will she commit to strong , visible neighbourhood police in our town , which be crucial to protect they from abuse , to ensure that worker can work safely on the frontline ? I will certainly join my hon . friend in thank shop worker in her constituency and right across the country , who be often on the frontline during the covid pandemic . sadly , during that period and since then , they have see a disgraceful increase in assault and abuse . we can not stand for that , which be why we be not only introduce strong neighbourhood policing — particularly in town centre — but bring in the new law on assault against shop worker as part of the Crime and Policing Bill . what a shame the conservative party vote against it . National Inquiry : Grooming Gangs whether she have have discussion with the Scottish Government on the national inquiry into groom gang . as the hon . Member will be aware , child protection and policing be devolve to the Scottish Government . we regularly engage with they on a range of issue , include the national inquiry into group - base child sexual exploitation and abuse that be announce by the Government . on 26 June , official meet to discuss the Government ' s approach to the national inquiry , its remit and the expectation that relevant finding and lesson learn will be share with the devolved administration , and we will continue to discuss this matter with our scottish counterpart to ensure a comprehensive UK - wide response . senior scottish advocate Sandra Brown have say that groom gang could be operate in every town and city in Scotland . this scandal affect the whole of the United Kingdom , so when will the Government extend the grooming gang inquiry to Scotland ? surely all victim across all part of the United Kingdom deserve justice . of course . I agree with the hon . Gentleman , but he should take up that issue with the Scottish Government , as it be devolve . as I have say , we will make sure that all learn be pass on to the devolved administration . I call the shadow Minister . the comment from my hon . friend the Member for Berwickshire , Roxburgh and Selkirk ( John Lamont ) relate to the question of whether it will be a national inquiry , rather than a co - ordination of a few local inquiry . all the victim and survivor deserve justice , so can the Minister please confirm for we today that every town and city with a grooming and rape gang will be part of the inquiry , include and especially where local authority may not wish to be part of it ? to the hon . Lady ' s question , whether a local authority wish to take part be not up for debate . the inquiry will be decide by the chair of the inquiry , as would happen in a statutory independent inquiry , and that work will go on . when we have inquiry , we have to make sure that we actually live by the recommendation of those inquiry . that be why I ask the hon . Lady why she vote against mandatory reporting and make groom an aggravate factor — those be recommendation from the last inquiry — when she be ask to vote for they . small Boat crossing what step her Department be take to stop small boat crossing . small boat crossing undermine border security and put life at risk . the criminal gang have adapt their tactic to exploit french rule that prevent the authority from intervene in french water . the french Minister of the Interior and I agree that this need to change . he have instigate a major maritime review to change tactic and operation , and we want to see these change in place as soon as possible . I agree with the Home Secretary that that would be a major step forward . do she agree with I that , on average , well over 1 , 000 people have be cross the channel each week this year , and that there be no way any form of court procedure can keep pace with that ? do she therefore agree that nothing other than prevention , as she have describe , interception or , as a last resort , detention and return can possibly be successful ? I agree with the right hon . member that we need strong action to prevent the boat crossing in the first place , which be why we be work closely with France both on strengthen law enforcement , with a new law enforcement and investigation unit in Dunkirk , and on the issue of maritime tactic , because we need those intervention in french water . the small boat crisis be one of the single big issue that my constituent raise with I , and although the Government have make progress on return , crossing be still happen . what assurance can the Home Secretary give my constituent that these gang will be dismantle and that the crossing will stop ? my hon . friend be right to refer both to return — we have increase return of fail asylum seeker by more than 20 % since the election — and to the action against the criminal gang . we know that there be iraqi kurdish gang in particular operating in northern France , so we have a new agreement in place with the french Government , the Iraqi Government and the Kurdistan Regional Government , to pursue those gang . Antisocial Behaviour what recent progress her Department have make on tackle antisocial behaviour . what recent progress her Department have make on tackle antisocial behaviour . the Government be determined to crack down on antisocial behaviour , and tackle it be a central theme of our safe street summer initiative , which be currently under way in over 500 town . our Crime and Policing Bill will provide police with a suite of new power to tackle antisocial behaviour , include respect order to get persistent offender out of town centre , and strong power to seize dangerous and deafen off - road bike . I again remind the House that the Conservatives vote against those measure recently . with increase incident of antisocial behaviour and fall police number in Scotland , will the Minister assure I that she will share learn from the safe street initiative with SNP Ministers , as it be roll out , to encourage they to raise their game on this issue ? will she also join I and Police Scotland in Fife in praise Kingdom Off Road motorcycle club in my constituency , which be such a success in run activity that divert young people from antisocial behaviour ? we will of course learn lesson over the summer from our initiative and our blitz on town centre , and I be willing to share that with SNP Ministers , which I think would be very helpful in the light of what my hon . Friend say about the problem people be face in Scotland . I of course welcome and commend the work with young people that be go on in his constituency . we have exciting plan for Gateshead town centre , but we have more work to do on antisocial behaviour . Northumbria police ' s Operation Shield have bring down antisocial behaviour significantly , but more power and more officer be need . what be the Government do to ensure that the police have both the power and the resource to tackle persistent antisocial behaviour ? first , I be very pleased to hear about the work of Northumbria police with Operation Shield , which I think be to be commend . we want to work collectively with force to focus on town centre nationwide , while recognise that some town centre and area of the country have more significant problem to address . we want to build on exist datum , good practice and evidence to develop a model that can then be roll out up and down the country . Glastonbury town centre have see increase rate of antisocial behaviour , shoplifting and crime . a local charity shop manager tell I that resident and customer be too scared to walk down the high street , which obviously have a negative impact on the local economy . will the Minister meet I to discuss how effective community policing can be the solution to the persistent issue that Glastonbury be face ? I be , of course , very happy to meet the hon . Lady . that be why neighbourhood policing be important , and why the Government make a commitment to put 13 , 000 additional police personnel back into our town centre and community over the course of this Parliament , to provide the reassurance that community have not have for far too long , with the decimation of neighbourhood police over previous year . I thank the Minister very much for her answer . I know she be very aware of what we be do in Northern Ireland , where community police officer be an important part of our policing . the relationship they build up over a period of 12 month , 18 month or two year mean that they become a part of the community . we should share good idea — we have good idea , as have the Minister . will she take the opportunity to discuss those idea with the police Minister and the Chief Constable in Northern Ireland , because I believe that what we do can help here as well ? I be very pleased to hear about the good idea be roll out in Northern Ireland . I hope very much to be able to visit in the near future , so that I be able to see for myself that community police in Northern Ireland . hostile State Threats what step her Department be take to counter hostile state threat . the Department be take robust action to respond to state threat . we continue to implement measure in the National Security Act 2023 , which include launch the foreign influence registration scheme on 1 July . we have also announce the conclusion of the transnational repression review , new police training and the establishment of a cross - whitehall joint unit to tackle state threat . twenty year ago , after the horror of the 7 / 7 bombing , we join up how we work on security threat of all kind , create an endure multi - agency approach . now , with the add challenge from far - right extremism and the rapidly mount threat to Europe from malign russian activity , we need to bolster our response across border as well as across our agency . will my hon . friend look at the concept of a joint UK - French national security council meeting to push that forward at Thursday ' s summit ? I be grateful to my hon . friend . I be sure we will all be reflect on where we be 20 year ago . he be right about the nature of the threat we face today and he make a very good suggestion . as he will know , we work very closely with our french neighbour . important conversation will be take place against the backdrop of the state visit , but I will consider more carefully the point he make . we know that terrorist and potential terrorist be come on small boat across the english channel , so why be Border Force pick these people up and bring they to the UK ? I can say to the hon . Gentleman that we be strengthen those check . we continually assess potential threat in the UK and ensure that we guard against they . Knife Crime what step her Department be take to tackle knife crime . my hon . friend will know that the Government have set an unprecedented mission to halve knife crime in a decade . we be determined to tackle the scourge of serious violence on our street . this month , we be run a major new surrender scheme for lethal weapon , include ninja sword , in hotspot across the country , alongside introduce the new provision in our Crime and Policing Bill to crack down on the illegal sale of knife online . those measure will help to reduce the availability of dangerous knife on our street and ensure that those who perpetrate these offence face the full force of the law . six week ago , Kayden Moy , a 16 - year - old boy from East Kilbride in my constituency , be stab to death , leave his family bereft and a community — my community — in grief . since Kayden ' s tragic death , I have receive multiple video and image of local youth pose while wield machete in their own home , but the police claim that they be powerless to take any action whatever . do the Minister agree that much more need to be do to stop the very real glamourisation of knife crime online , and to prevent social medium from be a breeding ground for youth violence ? may I first express my condolence to Kayden ' s family and friend ? that be just appal to hear . my hon . friend be absolutely right about the role that social medium can play in glamourise these type of weapon . that be why it be so important that we have measure in the Crime and Policing Bill and the Online Safety Act 2023 to start to tackle that . as I say , it be absolutely appalling . shoplift what step her Department be take to tackle shoplift . this month , we have support police and the retail industry to launch the new retail crime strategy , and the Home Secretary launch a safe street blitz in town centre , with targeted action to tackle retail crime . under the previous Government , shop theft soar to record level and assault against retail worker spiral out of control . that be why , in addition to invest in neighbourhood policing , we be introduce in our Crime and Policing Bill a new stand - alone offence of assault a shop worker , because everybody have a right to feel safe on the job . staff at Tesco in Aldershot tell I that the store be face rise level of shoplifting , with people walk out of the store with full trolley . it be often the same individual , who be embolden because they do not fear the consequence . hampshire police be do their good , but they can not attend every incident , and store staff feel threatened and powerless . this be a nationwide problem . what step be the Home Secretary take to tackle the wave of retail crime and to protect shop worker on the frontline ? it be totally unacceptable that shop theft and violence and abuse towards retail worker have continue to rise , particularly over the last two year of the previous Government , when they go up by 60 % . we be ask retail worker to perform a significant act of public service as they enforce restriction on the sale of item include cigarette , alcohol and knife . as I have set out , the bespoke offence in the Crime and Policing Bill will help to shine a spotlight on the problem and ensure that we bring perpetrator to book . the Bill will also ensure that the sanction of a criminal behaviour order can be attach to a conviction for assault a retail worker , which will help to protect retail worker . whether at Asda in Basildon or Waitrose in Billericay , there have be real issue with shop theft , particularly by organise gang , which often come from outside the local area . they come in , ransack store and then drive away . what be the Minister do to address the issue that go beyond local theft and be actually a nationwide gang issue ? the right hon . Gentleman raise a really important point . we will continue to crack down on the organise gang that target retailer . as we have set out , we will provide £ 5 million over the next three year to continue to fund a specialist analysis team within Opal , the national police intelligence unit for serious organise acquisitive crime , to share information and make sure that retailer be part of the conversation . we be do everything we can to tackle organise gang . off - road bike what step her Department be take to tackle the antisocial use of off - road bike . our Crime and Policing Bill , which Opposition Members vote against on Third Reading , be give the police great power to clamp down on off - road bike and other nuisance vehicle that cause chaos in our community . once the change come into force , officer will no long be require to issue a warning before they seize a bike that be be use antisocially . on 28 May , we publish a consultation to explore change to the circumstance in which the police can seize and destroy these vehicle , and we will not hesitate to go far if need . I thank the Minister for that answer . gwent police be take on dangerous , illegal off - road bike , but a related problem be electric bike , which be sometimes chip to go fast and have become a new danger . will the Minister please look into this ? the bike can be switch up from be a means to get from a to b into be a real menace . yes , I be very happy to look into that issue and to meet my hon . friend to discuss it . he may want to know that the 60 additional officer that be go to be available in his police force area by the end of this year will help to tackle some of the antisocial behaviour involve e - bike and other vehicle . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . on 7 July 2005 , terrorist attack London ' s transport network at King ' s Cross , Russell Square , Edgware Road , Aldgate and Tavistock Square . fifty - two people , who be travel by tube and bus across the capital , never come home . we remember they and the love one they leave behind , and all those who face terrible injury and endure the trauma of that day , and we remember the incredible bravery and courage of those who respond — the emergency service worker and the fellow passenger who save life that day . in the word of the King , this be an act of senseless evil , but he also remind we that we must " remember the countless story of extraordinary courage and compassion " as " the very good of humanity in the face of the very bad . " I want to thank not just those who respond that day but those who have continue to work tirelessly in the two decade since against islamist extremist terrorism , against other increasingly complex terror and national security threat , in counter - terror policing , in the security and intelligence agency , and on prevention . most importantly of all , this be about all of we , as we remember how our capital and our country come together across community and across faith to ensure that we never let hatred win . I associate myself with the Home Secretary ' s remark . eastleigh police station be close in 2019 after 95 year of service . in 2023 , the Hampshire police and crime commissioner promise that a new station would be open within 12 month , but we still do not have one . do the Secretary of State agree that my constituent deserve a new police station ? as the hon . Member will know , decision about where police station be locate be for the local force , the chief constable and the police and crime commissioner . she will welcome the news that Hampshire be get 65 additional neighbourhood police officer , who will be out on the beat this year as a result of the Government ' s neighbourhood policing guarantee . I join colleague in pay tribute to all those affect by the 7 / 7 attack . in Huddersfield , new neighbourhood police team be make a difference in restore safety to our town centre , with 12 additional officer for the team . I welcome the 6 . 8 % funding uplift receive by West Yorkshire police this year , but give the persistent challenge that town centre face — include violent and knife crime , which we have see in Huddersfield — will the Secretary of State update the House on how the Government will continue to support neighbourhood police and ensure that force such as West Yorkshire have the long - term resource that they need to keep community safe ? my hon . friend be right that we need the additional neighbourhood police in West Yorkshire . I welcome the 12 additional officer in her constituency , the 100 additional neighbourhood police officer across West Yorkshire and , of course , the additional police officer in Pontefract and Castleford town centre . we have make it clear to police force across the country that the focus this summer need to be on tackle town centre crime . I associate myself with the Home Secretary ' s remark about the terrorist atrocity perpetrate on 7 / 7 . the 52 victim and their family of course remain in our prayer . the whole House will want to send thank to the emergency service for what they do on that day and what they do every day . it be now clear that the Home Secretary have lose control of our border . so far , 2025 have be the bad year in history when it come to illegal immigrant cross the channel . her claim to be smash the gang be clearly laughable . the French be have almost no effect , despite spend hundred of million of pound , and the press report that not much will change in the negotiation this week . return of small boat arrival be down , represent only 5 % of overall arrival , so will — order . this be topical question . you have to help I get the Back Benchers in , but you be not at the moment . I be sure you be come to an end now . I be , Mr Speaker . will the Home Secretary finally admit that the only way to fix this situation be for there to be a removal deterrent whereby every single illegal immigrant be immediately remove ? the shadow Home Secretary seem to have forget that in the short period for which he be immigration Minister , net migration near - treble and the number of small boat go up tenfold . not only that , but the funding for France that he have refer to be agree by his government when he be at the Home Office . if he really want to see serious action against small boat , why do he vote against counter - terror power for smuggler gang , against clamp down on illegal working in the gig economy , and against strong action to stop those dangerous crossing ? the Home Secretary talk about stop those dangerous crossing , but there have be record number on her watch as Home Secretary . be the Home Secretary aware of the so - call " Police Anti - Racism Commitment " , which be itself flagrantly racist ? it say that the racial equity commitment mean " not … treat everyone ' the same ' or be ' colour blind ' " . it say that the police should treat people differently in order to artificially engineer equality of police outcome . do she agree that that be itself flagrantly racist ? the police should treat everyone the same . will she call on the National Police Chiefs ' Council to cancel the commitment ? if it will not , will she legislate to give herself the power ? as the shadow Home Secretary know , the police ' s oath make it clear that they have to police without fear or favour , and that be what they do right across the country . it be a shame that he will not support the police in the difficult job that they do , just as the Conservatives vote against crack down on off - road bike , against new spike and stalk law , and against respect order . they be against support our police . I echo the Home Secretary ' s remark about the 7 / 7 attack . Alcaline Transport in my constituency be fine £ 10 , 000 after it report that a clandestine migrant be find in one of its vehicle . when will improvement to the clandestine entrant civil penalty scheme be fully implement , so that haulier who report issue responsibly be support , not penalise ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue . while the clandestine entrant penalty scheme have to be rigorously enforce in order to be effective , it also provide a very fair process of appeal for haulier against penalty that be not justify by the fact of a case . I be sure that my hon . friend will assist the company in his constituency through that appeal process . do the Home Secretary agree with labour police and crime commissioner that the money allocate by the Chancellor at the spending review be insufficient to deliver the Government ' s police priority ? we have provide an additional £ 200 million for neighbourhood police as part of more than £ 1 billion of additional funding for police force across the country . that be how we be put an additional 3 , 000 neighbourhood police officer and police community support officer on our street this year , after the decimation of neighbourhood police under the Conservatives . I associate myself with the Home Secretary ' s comment on 7 / 7 . recently , the town of Prudhoe be shock when Islamophobic graffiti be find on a building . such graffiti have no place in Prudhoe , my constituency , Northumberland or this country . can the Home Secretary assure I that uphold the safety and security of everyone in rural community , no matter where they be from or what their background , be of the utmost importance to this Government ? my hon . friend be right . that sort of graffiti and serious hate crime divide community and need to be take seriously by police across the country . it be one of the reason we be strengthen the law to give the police strong power to prevent intimidating protest around not just synagogue but mosque . my thought be with the family of Jayesh Pitrola . Hertfordshire ' s police budget already face a £ 7 million shortfall , and the recent spending review contain no direct funding from the Home Office to address that . will the Home Secretary reassure my constituent , as well as our police and crime commissioner Jonathan Ash - Edwards , that Hertfordshire will benefit from more police officer without further local tax rise be require ? as the Home Secretary just point out , we have provide an additional £ 200 million this year to support new neighbourhood police officer and pcso for all our community . I be very happy to meet the hon . Gentleman if he would like to discuss police far , but this Government be commit to make sure that the police have the resource they need . the nationally recognise BRAVE — Building Resilience and Valuing Emotions — programme support adult survivor of domestic abuse in Berkshire , but after our conservative police and crime commissioner cut its funding by 25 % , the scheme be leave unviable . do the Minister share my deep disappointment about this cut ? yes , I do . I thank my hon . friend for highlight the important work that brave have do in Berkshire . grassroots organisation be at the heart of work to support domestic abuse victim and the community they live in . tackle domestic abuse be at the heart of the Government ' s mission and , I should hope , the mission of every police and crime commissioner . the Mercure hotel in Stanwell in my constituency be use to house asylum seeker , and I have have multiple report of asylum seeker there work illegally . will the Department please put that on immigration enforcement ' s radar , so that it can take the appropriate action ? I assure the hon . member that we take action against those who break the rule by work illegally . raid and arrest for illegal working be up 50 % in the last year ; civil penalty in the last quarter be at their high rate since 2016 ; and we be take action to close the gig economy loophole through the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill , which he and his conservative friend vote against . what step be the Home Office take to ensure that palestinian student award scholarship to UK university can obtain visa and travel to the UK to take up their place ? that be an important issue . I be work closely with the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , and the israeli , jordanian and egyptian authority to identify safe route by which british national and other eligible people can leave Gaza , or indeed the west bank , and so be able to obtain visa and travel to the UK . I call the Father of the House . the number of small boat crossing be drive people mad and erode support for the Labour Government , just as it erode support for the Conservatives . I worry for the Labour Government ; I want they to do well on this , for all our sake . have not our french friend get a point about this country be uniquely attractive to illegal asylum seeker ? we do not have identity card , and we do not do what the Belgians do , which be to refuse to put they in reception centre . can we make a study of what every other member of the Council of Europe be do , and replicate the strong action , so that this be not the most attractive country for illegal asylum seeker ? I agree with the right hon . member that we need to take action on a whole range of thing . that include action in France , further action on the network of criminal gang , action on the water , and action to tackle illegal working and reform the asylum system in the UK . we inherit a system in which there be not enough action on illegal working ; that be why we have ensure a 50 % increase in raid and arrest . we will also bring forward more reform on asylum . to what extent do the Minister agree that reform of the european convention on human right , which can block we from deport some foreign criminal , include paedophile , should be a priority for the Government ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that it should be for Parliament and the Government to decide who have a right to remain in our country . as set out in our immigration White Paper , we intend to clarify these issue and the application of article 8 right in the UK . Less than three week ago , the Home Secretary whip she back Benchers against new clause 43 to the Crime and Policing Bill , which have cross - party support and would have criminalise the harassment of woman and girl . her Ministers promise at the Dispatch Box and elsewhere that the new clause be not necessary because the matter would be deal with in the violence against woman and girl strategy , which be mean to come out before the recess . we now hear that it be not come out before the recess . do Ministers misspeak at the Dispatch Box , or be they incompetent ? if the hon . Gentleman wish to read the National Audit Office ' s report on the previous Government ' s violence against woman and girl strategy , he will see that the strategy be find totally want . what about your strategy ? I will come to it . it be also undeliverable and untested . I want to ensure that the violence against woman and girl strategy that go out in this Government ' s name be the good it can possibly be . one of my constituent find that , despite take precaution , their identity have be assume , and their PIN for online banking be change . that be repeat across other account , and thousand of pound be steal . what step be the Department take to combat sophisticated cyber - crime and ensure that , in particular , old constituent like mine remain protect ? I be sorry to hear about my hon . friend ' s constituent . combat these crime be a key priority for the Government . we continue to collaborate closely with the financial industry , organisation such as Cifas and regulator on strengthen account security and support victim . I would be happy to meet he to discuss this far . I associate myself with the Home Secretary ' s comment about 7 / 7 . I remember that day too well , and we support the Government then , too . in more recent time , there have be a number of major cyber - attack , ransomware attack and associate blackmail of major company . it have come to my attention that one such company pay a very large sum to its blackmailer recently . I will share the name with the Home Secretary afterwards ; it would not be appropriate to share it in the Chamber . will she update the House on the progress of the Government ' s action to ensure that blackmailer of this sort do not succeed in future ? I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for raise this matter , and will happily meet he to discuss it . the Home Office recently close a consultation on a world - lead package of legislative proposal to counter ransomware . a public response will be publish shortly . the chair of the Met Police Federation , Rick Prior , and the chair of the West Midlands Police Federation , Rich Cooke , have both be remove by the unelected chief executive of the Police Federation after speak up for the officer they be elect to represent . be the Home Secretary as concerned as I be that the only staff association that police officer be legally allow to join be no long fit for purpose ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this issue ; I know he have experience as a police officer . I regularly meet the Police Federation and its officer and chief executive . I will raise his concern directly with they . how do the Home Secretary propose to reduce the number of people in asylum accommodation in Bognor Regis and Littlehampton , give that even the Prime Minister admit that the situation in the channel be deteriorate ? by speed up the asylum process , so that people be not trap in asylum hotel by huge backlog , and by increase decision making by 116 % , follow the 70 % fall that we see in the three month before the last election , we will get the system move again . over the past 14 year , police force have face significant cut to personnel and resource . while many area be return to 2010 staffing level , the west midland still have 540 few officer . I support the effort of the police and crime commissioner , Simon Foster . how can we address the funding gap cause by an outdated national formula that have disadvantage my Dudley constituent ? my hon . friend be a passionate advocate for police in her constituency . I hope she will welcome the increase for the west midland of over 300 neighbourhood police officer and pcso . it come at a time when we be put 3 , 000 more neighbourhood police on the beat . we be also bring in : new law on off - road bike and town centre crime ; a ban on machete , zombie knife and ninja sword ; domestic abuse expert in 999 control room ; and new protection against terrorism for venue . that be action across the board to keep our community safe . Government Performance against Fiscal Rules ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer if she will make a statement on the Government ' s performance against the fiscal rule . as the shadow Chancellor know , it be a long - stand convention of this and previous government not to provide a running commentary on a fiscal forecast , and it be for the independent Office for Budget Responsibility to assess performance against the Government ' s fiscal rule in its official economic and fiscal forecast . in the most recent forecast , publish in March alongside the spring statement , the OBR confirm that the Government be on track to meet their fiscal rule two year ahead of target . it also confirm that the Government be on track to meet their fiscal rule early in the Budget last autumn . this be a choice — a responsible choice . when we contrast it with the action of Conservative Members , who lose control of the public finance , we see work people across the country still pay the price . in line with the usual process , the Chancellor will ask the OBR to produce a new fiscal forecast in the autumn for the annual Budget . that forecast will include an update assessment of the Government ' s performance against their fiscal rule . as the Prime Minister confirm last week , the Government be commit to their fiscal rule , which remain non - negotiable . we have see what happen when fiscal rule be put to one side — [ interruption . ] Conservatives Members may be chuntere from their sedentary position , but family across the country be still pay the price of the consequence of Liz Truss ' s experiment through high mortgage payment , and we be not go to put the nation ' s finance at risk as the Conservatives have do . in contrast , this Government be meet their fiscal rule and , as a consequence of the Chancellor ' s decision , we be invest billion of pound in the renewal of Britain : in school , hospital , affordable home and public transport and in keep the nation safe . any future fiscal plan will be set out at the Budget in the normal way . the Chancellor say that she would not make any commitment that be not " fully fund and fully cost " , but the Chief Secretary to the Treasury have just say that he now expect we to wait until the autumn to hear how the Government intend to cover the £ 6 billion of unfunded commitment that their u - turn have run up in the last month alone . a Government divide . a Government rack up unfunded spending . a Government wreck the public finance . why be the Chief Secretary not prepare to explain how they will fund these u - turn ? there be surely only two possible answer : either the Treasury have make they without a clue as to how they will be fund , or it know but be refuse to tell we . either be completely unacceptable . can the Chief Secretary set aside the usual blather that we have just hear and tell we whether he know how these unfunded commitment will be pay for , or be his Government simply refuse to say ? the House will also have note the inherent contradiction in the Chief Secretary stick to the line that decision will be make at a fiscal event in the normal way , when that be precisely what the Government have not do . by lose control of the finance and of their own parliamentary party , the Government have make significant fiscal decision outside of a fiscal event . the Chancellor say at the Budget that she would not be come back with more tax rise . be this still the position ? will the Chief Secretary rule out a wealth tax , along with reconfirm there will be no rise in income tax , national insurance or vat ? the Chancellor say that she would not extend the freeze on tax threshold because it would hurt work people . be this still the position ? can the Chief Secretary confirm that the Chancellor will not be add to her fiscal black hole by scrap the two - child benefit cap ? can I also ask whether consideration — order . the shadow Chancellor will know the time limit . I be sure that this will be his last sentence . it certainly be now , Madam Deputy Speaker . if Ministers be to begin put their house back in order , that must start right now with full transparency and proper answer . I think the House know what lose control of the public finance look like , because under the previous Conservative Government interest rate go through the roof , family be pay high mortgage rate and the Chair of the Treasury Committee be call out the irresponsible behaviour of Liz Truss and her Ministers in the Treasury . that be what lose control of the public finance look like and that be why the conservative party lose control of Government and be in opposition today . the right hon . Gentleman ask I to comment on forecast of annually manage expenditure and on future tax decision . he know how this work . all of that will happen with a forecast and a Budget , which will happen in the autumn . we all know why the Government want to keep their fiscal rule tight , because we know what happen when the market go wrong , but a lot of thing have rock the country since the Labour Government be elect a year ago . will the Chief Secretary explain to our constituent what the benefit of the fiscal rule be for they in their day - to - day life ? this can seem a very remote and distant discussion for people who be live in overcrowded condition or who need healthcare , for example . I thank the Chair of the Treasury Committee for her question . the way I would describe it to the public be that when the Government lose control of the public finance , as the Conservative party do in government , it affect not only the account in the Exchequer and the Treasury but the family finance in every house across the country . People be still pay for the consequence of the last Government not stick to their fiscal rule and act irresponsibly . that be why our fiscal rule be non - negotiable , and we will stick to they . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . we all know the Government have a terrible inheritance from the previous Government , whether it be the incompetence of covid contract , the mini - Budget or the botched Brexit deal . but at the same time , last year ' s Labour Budget be a Treasury tax grab with no vision for the economy and no regard to the impact on small and medium - sized business and key sector like hospitality and social care . we Liberal Democrats want to see thing get well in this country for our constituent and for the country . in the spirit of constructive opposition , I will ask the Minister a number of question . when will the Government get serious about growth through a much deep trading deal with Europe ? will Ministers look at fairer revenue raiser , such as reverse the Conservatives ' tax cut for the big bank and raise revenue from tech giant and online gaming and gambling company ? will the Prime Minister make a public statement to calm the market and avoid four month of speculation about what might be in the next Budget ? will the Government commission an interim Office for Budget Responsibility report now ? order . the same stricture apply to the Liberal Democrats — one more sentence . I be grateful for your guidance , Madam Deputy Speaker . can the Government confirm that they will not raid capital budget to fix crumble hospital and to pay for day - to - day spending , and will the Minister confirm the date for the autumn Budget ? the hon . Lady encourage I to act above my pay grade . the Chancellor will set out the date for the autumn Budget in due course . the hon . Lady invite I to explain to the House what our strategy be at the Budget — it be about invest in the renewal of Britain . that be why the Chancellor ' s decision to update the fiscal rule to allow billion of pound of investment in our capital infrastructure across the country , include into school and hospital , be the reason that the Budget be set out as it be . she also ask I about trade deal . I politely point to the three trade deal that the Government have already agree with the European Union , India and the United States of America , save thousand of job across the UK and generate growth in the year ahead . do the Chief Secretary to the Treasury agree that it be because of these fiscal rule that this Government have be able to establish firm foundation for future growth ? will he explain to the House how the Budget stability rule support the Government with confidence of investor and business ? my hon . friend know from her work on the Treasury Committee that the fiscal rule be important because they prove that the Government be in control of the public finance . we see what happen when the last government lose control : the cost of government borrowing go through the roof , and that take money out of budget before they even get to public service like the national health service . that be why this Government be commit to our fiscal rule and will ensure that they be be implement . the Chief Secretary will be aware from his previous role as Chair of the Business and Trade Committee that one of the thing that those who create wealth and invest in our economy need be certainty . before the next Budget , will he ensure that he consult with business leader and that a proper impact assessment of whichever taxis he will increase be do so we can minimise the damage be do to the productive capacity of the UK economy ? the Treasury engage with business leader and investor all the time , and the one thing they tell I be that they be grateful this Government have bring back long - term , multi - year budget , that we have the fiscal rule in place , and that we be reform thing like the planning system to make it easy to do business in this country . as a consequence , business confidence be increase under this government , have drop enormously under the right hon . member ' s Government . my constituency face a housing crisis , and inflation and out - of - control borrowing cost make it much more expensive to build social housing , and those cost be pass on to tenant . do my right hon . friend agree that that be precisely why the fiscal rule be critical ? the fiscal rule be important because when we control the nation ' s finance , we bring stability to family finance . we have all experience the consequence of previous government lose control , and our mortgage rate and rent have go through the roof . this Labour Government will never let that happen again . the Government commit to one fiscal event a year in the name of economic stability , but by have an OBR forecast and these constraint , they have only one lever to pull : spending cut . this time , disabled people pay the price , and the Government have since have to row back . do the Government regret place those restraint on themselves over tax measure when OBR forecast be publish ? the Government be commit to the independence of the OBR . we will keep set out future fiscal plan at one fiscal event a year . do the Chief Secretary agree that without the fiscal rule we would not have see four interest rate cut , which have benefit thousand of constituent across the country ? I agree with my hon . friend that we have have four interest rate cut under this government which be good for mortgage holder and renter . wage have increase fast than cost for the first time in many year , and the Chancellor have be able to invest billion of pound in our country while keep market stable . that be the consequence of stability in our economy and in our politic and the fact that we be implement our fiscal rule in the way we say we would . with all due respect to the Chief Secretary , the Chancellor really should be here to answer this urgent question because the financial market be extremely concerned about she wellbee — the financial market which , by the way , be ask for a 10 - year yield now that be considerably high than after the Liz Truss Budget . it be really important that the bond market , which be aware of the hole in the Government ' s finance , know how the Government be go to act , because otherwise we will see far fleeing of the millionaire and the wealth creator and the business whose investment we rely on for growth in this country . I be not entirely sure what the question be , but I think the hon . Lady be exhibit that she have learn some lesson from her party ' s performance when she be last in government . maybe she could share that with her Front - Bench colleague in due course . I be amazed that the conservative party have bring an urgent question on fiscal rule . the Conservatives have seven set of fiscal rule in 14 year ; I mean , guy — and it be all guy — come on . the reason why they keep miss debt and deficit target be because they keep cut investment , mean less growth and less tax revenue . do the Chief Secretary agree that by invest to grow , we get our debt burden down ? this Government recognise that it be because of cut , especially to capital investment through the austerity year under the Conservative Government , that we have such poor productivity in our economy . we be still suffer the consequence of that , which be why , as the Chancellor say at the Budget , we be choose investment over decline . a year ago we be promise radical change , but the only radical change appear to be in the Labour party itself , which have decide that if you be poor , old or disabled , it will be you who will bear the brunt of the cut and on whose back the book will be balance . so be the fiscal rule always predicate on go after the most vulnerable and the weak and those least able to organise and fight back , instead of take on the rich , the powerful , the multinational and the tax avoider ? as a consequence of the Chancellor ' s decision , we give Scotland the large real - term spend increase since devolution begin , and the only radical change that we be now look for be the Scottish National party to be kick out of Holyrood next May . as my hon . friend the Member for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) mention , there be seven different set of fiscal rule under the previous Government . the shadow Chancellor , the right hon . member for Central Devon ( Sir Mel Stride ) , have announce that he have reflect on the mistake make by the Truss Government and I be sure that international investor watch what be happen in the Commons would like to see sensible debate from all party in the Chamber on the most critical challenge face our time . will the Chief Secretary therefore set out the important way in which capital investment unlock under these fiscal rule be allow for economic growth and development ? because of the Chancellor ' s decision to update the definition of debt — [ interruption . ] we have be able to unlock billion of pound of investment into house and school and hospital and GP surgery across the country . opposition Members may laugh but , as my hon . friend point out , they have no plan to share with anyone at all . in November last year the Chancellor tell the CBI conference that she be " not come back with more borrowing or more taxis . " will the Minister , as the Chancellor be not in the Chamber , reiterate that promise today , or have the Chancellor mishandle the economy so badly that she be now go to have to add this to the Government ' s grow list of u - turn ? the Chancellor be very clear that the last Budget be a once - in - a - generation Budget because it have to deal with the sheer scale of negligence and mess that we have inherit from the party opposite . I be very grateful now that we be one year into a Labour Government we do not have to keep clear up their mess year after year . the Opposition have oppose all the tough decision this Government have make to raise revenue , from vat on private school to the windfall tax . have the Chief Secretary hear anything from the shadow Chancellor about how their plan would interact with the fiscal rule , if they plan on have any fiscal rule at all ? I might suggest to my hon . friend that the public be grateful not to hear very much from the conservative party after 14 year of failure , but if Conservatives member wish to be competitive again , I would encourage they to set out what they might actually do with the country . plan to plunder disability benefit and the decision to hike national insurance contribution be example of policy that disproportionately hit Welsh community . instead , we need fair policy , such as a wealth tax on asset over £ 10 million , an end to Government subsidy for oil and gas giant , and a clampdown on tax evasion . when will the Government ' s fiscal rule enshrine fairness , where the ultra - wealthy and large corporation pay their fair share ? the right hon . Lady seem to have miss the fact that this Government have change the non - dom tax status , which have be use by some of the wealthy people in our country for many year ; we have introduce vat on private school ; and it be now much more expensive to fly in a private jet than it be under the former conservative Prime Minister . as a consequence of the decision that the Chancellor take at the Budget last year , we have give the large real - term increase in spending to Wales since devolution begin , and as a consequence of our reform to the Bill that we will be discuss on Wednesday , we have increase the base rate of universal credit for the first time in many year . it be extraordinary that the Tories have recover so quickly from their economic mismanagement that they feel able to stop apologise , and even to offer advice — if only the economic wellbeing of my constituent have recover as quickly . do the Chief Secretary to the Treasury agree with I that the Office for Budget Responsibility , like economist the world over , find it easy to measure the economic consequence of funding cut , such as the propose cut to disability benefit , than the economic consequence of investment , such as invest in people get into work ? this be the first opportunity I have have to congratulate my hon . friend on her recent damehood , which be very well deserved . she invite I to comment on the independent Office for Budget Responsibility ' s forecast methodology . give its independence , I be afraid I will not to that , but I will point to the fact that in the last forecast , the OBR be able to forecast an increase in growth as a consequence of our reform to the planning system , which we welcome very much . since April , eight company have personally approach I to tell I that they have either lay people off or have have to close their business after decade of trading because of the rise in national insurance contribution . how many business in the Minister ' s constituency have tell he a similar story ? I will not give a running commentary on my conversation with business or constituent in my constituency , but what I have hear from business in the defence and infrastructure sector be welcome news regard our long - term spending commitment , our reform of the planning system and our commitment to spend more on capital across our country , which will generate good job and good skill in every part of the country . there have be talk about the previous Prime Minister . as the MP for the constituency where the lettuce that last long than the previous Prime Minister be locate , I can confirm that we all know from our constituent that she do more damage . it be good to hear Conservative member finally talk about the small business that be the backbone of the british economy , rather than worry about the millionaire . do my right hon . friend agree that we need to give those business even more certainty and confidence about the road ahead ? the EU trade deal that we have do be a brilliant start , but do he agree that there be now a case for also look at thing like alignment by default , so that they can confidently know what kind of future they have under this government ? I thank my hon . friend for welcome the trade deal that this Government have enter into with the United States , India and the European Union , with whom we get a great deal , especially on food and drink import and export , which will result in low price on the shelf of our supermarket across the country . as my hon . friend know , we have commit to an annual summit with our counterpart in the European Union , and I be sure that my ministerial colleague will set out further detail on those negotiation in due course . George be the fifth - generation owner of Knight ' s fish and chip shop in Glastonbury . it be a much - love business in the town , but it be under severe pressure after the nic increase and business rate and some of the decision make by Ministers on our economy . hike national insurance hurt our small business and economic growth . so will the Minister back small business by overhaul business rate and scrap the nic hike ? the hon . Lady will know that when the change in national insurance contribution for employer be implement , the scheme be design so as to protect small business , in relation to big business . she point to our fish and chip shop , which be often belove in all our community . I know from fish and chip shop in my own constituency that the price of fish , for example , have go from about £ 100 to £ 300 a box . the price of oil have go up follow the russian invasion of Ukraine , and even the price of potato have go up , often because those product be import from the European Union into the UK . that be why our trade deal on food and drink with the EU as well as our investment into cheap renewable energy will make a big difference to fish and chip shop such as the one that the hon . Lady mention . it be always amusing to hear the shadow Chancellor , who preside over a crisis in the welfare system , complain about this Government ' s action to restore fiscal stability . it be like listen to an arsonist complain about the fire brigade . do my right hon . friend agree it be difficult to take the conservative seriously when they will not tell we what their plan be or even whether they support the spending lay out in the spending review ? my hon . friend be right . if any party on the Opposition Benches want to be competitive in the next election , it need to set out what it propose to do with the country and how it will pay for it . time and again , whether it be the conservative party , Reform UK , the Green party or any other party , it be all promise of jam tomorrow , with no idea about how to pay for it . the public have be burn by that already because of the last government , and they will not be burn by it again . have the Chief Secretary see the much long - term forecast by the OBR for the growth in public spending and the growth in debt rise to more than 250 % of gdp in decade to come and the debt interest rise to 12 % of gdp ? now that there be a gape hole in the Government ' s financial plan because of the vote last week and the u - turn on welfare reform , why do he think that he can play for time , instead of act to give the market confidence before they lose confidence ? the Treasury obviously monitor all OBR forecast and consider they in detail . as the hon . Gentleman know , it be right and proper that the Treasury look at OBR forecast in an orderly way when it produce its forecast in line with the fiscal forecast . that be how we bring stability back to the public finance , and that be what we will be do . the Leader of the Opposition have appoint every member of Liz Truss ' s Treasury team to her Front Bench , apart from those boot out by the public . do my right hon . friend agree that a party that have no fiscal strategy but to believe " in Liz we Truss " can not be trust on any of it ? in a more conciliatory tone to Conservative Members , let I say that they have so few mp they have no choice . since the Budget , some 270 , 000 job have be lose and borrowing be up by ten of billion of pound . just last week , the Office for Budget Responsibility indicate that it will lower its forecast for the second time since the Budget . do the Chancellor still have confidence in the OBR , or have she lose confidence in it ? the Chancellor have confidence in the OBR . the consequence of lose control of the country ' s finance , as the Conservatives do , cause real pain and a cost of live crisis for my constituent . do my right hon . friend agree it be only because of our sound economic management that we have see wage rise for work people at a fast rate in the first 10 month of this Labour Government than in the last 10 year of the Conservative Government ? my hon . friend be right . whether it be investor , market trader or our constituent , they get sick to the back tooth of chaos under the Conservatives , whether it be the mess of Brexit or the change in Prime Minister and Chancellor every five minute . ultimately , that result in a Parliament in which people be bad off at the end of the Conservative Administration than they be at the start , and our mortgage and rent be high as a cost of the loss of control in the public finance . this Labour Government will never let that happen again . a £ 6 billion hole have be open up because those on the Labour Front Bench can not get those on the labour back Benches to vote for their own policy . as a result , no . 10 be today conspicuously refuse to rule out a wealth tax . if we tell business people and wealth creator that their money will get tax if they leave it in this country , we drive even more investor away . be it not the case that even if this measure be not ultimately put in place , over the next couple of month the speculation about a wealth tax itself will drive investment away from this country ? the hon . Member know that the Chancellor will set out any decision on tax one way or the other in the Budget , which she will do in the autumn . do the Chief Secretary agree that this Government have have the courage to make the difficult but necessary decision in an effort to ensure sound public finance and improve the economy , while the opposition have hide behind their mistake and have no credible economic plan of their own ? my hon . friend know that this Labour Government be commit to fiscal and political stability , because that be what matter for family finance and get this country back on track after year of chaos under the Conservatives . I find it highly alarming that the Chief Secretary to the Treasury do not seem to realise that the cost of government borrowing be high now than at any time since the last Labour Government . all of this come back to decision about spending , so why , when Labour ' s manifesto say that it would limit spending increase to £ 9 . 5 billion a year , do it increase spending by eight time as much — £ 76 billion a year — three month later in its Budget ? because the conservative party have not do a spending review since 2021 and let inflation go through the roof , and the cost of do business be high , along with a whole string of broken promise from the Conservatives . the soon they reflect on their mistake and apologise to the country , the well for all of we . with major investment announce by this Government that will directly benefit my constituent — such as the low Thames crossing , dare nt Valley hospital and school building renewal — do the Chief Secretary agree that this Government have the fiscal rule in place to provide the economic stability we need to renew our social and economic infrastructure , which be leave in a terrible state by the last government ? I thank my hon . friend for demonstrate the real consequence of fiscal discipline , but also the fact that the Chancellor update the fiscal rule to allow for investment in precisely the kind of project my hon . friend mention in his constituency — in hospital , school , well road , public transport and more affordable housing across the country . with its NI rise , among other measure , last year ' s Budget skew the tax burden on to small company . my hon . friend the Member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) have just lay out some measure that would skew that burden towards big company and multinational . give that the Government ' s no . 1 priority be growth , could the Chief Secretary explain why we be tax small company over big company ? I think the hon . Member be refer to employer ' s national insurance contribution , which — as I have set out to the House — be design to limit the burden on small business , with big business pay more . that be the way that the system be design , and that be the system that the Chancellor put forward . the only way out of the economic doom loop that the previous Government get we into be by grow the british economy again . if the british economy have grow over the past 10 year as quickly as the OECD national average , there would be £ 40 billion more sit in the Exchequer without have to touch spending or taxis at all . [ interruption . ] the Conservatives talk about the fast growth in the G7 — that be like walk the first 26 mile of a marathon and then brag about jog over the finish line . growth be unacceptably slow under the previous government , so can the Chief Secretary let we know what he be do to get the british economy grow again , particularly change the broken planning system so that we can build more home and energy infrastructure here in the UK ? my hon . friend speak passionately , because his constituent know that they be bad off at the end of 14 year of the Conservatives than when they start . he know that this Labour Government be commit to make his constituent well off at this end of this Parliament than they be at the start . that be what our investment in the renewal of Britain be about , and it be what this Labour Government will deliver . we all know that taxis be come ; we just do not know on whom they be go to fall hard . the country be nervous , with every family and every business wonder how much those taxis be go to cost they . do the Chief Secretary regret the fact that that be lead to reduce domestic spending and reduced business investment , and be drag the economy down overall ? I do not disagree with this Government ' s fiscal policy , no . I always listen attentively to the shadow Chancellor , in this place and in his many media round . sadly , what be miss be a cost economic policy of his own . do my right hon . friend agree that the shadow Chancellor might be wise to spend some quality time in his beautiful Dorset constituency — Devon . apology — in his Devon constituency over the summer to develop some credible policy of his own ? if he do not , he be not credible from the Dispatch Box . I agree with my hon . friend . it will be a benefit to the whole House that the shadow Chancellor will be in his Devon constituency for the whole of August . the Chief Secretary talk about fiscal stability and fiscal discipline . he will be aware that labour - run Birmingham city council have be declare bankrupt , so I wish that skillset would be transfer to some of the people run that council . on a serious note , we still have a bin crisis in Birmingham ; bin worker be still on strike , and it be forecast that they will not go back to work until Christmas this year . local business and resident be absolutely feed up , so on a sincere note , will the Chief Secretary or his staff meet I and Birmingham MPs to bring this misery to an end ? I know that the hon . member and colleague in Birmingham be in correspondence and communication with relevant Ministers in the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government . I point he to the fact that this Government have increase the local government grant by up to £ 2 billion by the end of this period — by 2028 - 29 — and that we have give local government long - term certainty with multi - year budget for the first time in many year , to allow they to plan for the future . I have raise in this House on a number of occasion the many child in my constituency of Ealing Southall sleep on the floor or on the sofa in mouldy temporary home , due to 14 year of inaction and financial mismanagement by the Conservatives . do the Chief Secretary to the Treasury agree that it be only because of the fiscal and budgetary decision that this Labour Government have make that we have be able to invest a record almost £ 11 billion in build new affordable and social home for homeless London family , like those in Ealing Southall ? I thank my hon . friend for point out the legacy of the past 14 year , where so many of our constituent be wait for secure , affordable housing . that be why the Chancellor ' s decision not only to update the definition of debt , but to allow for the creation of a new national housing bank mean that we can direct billion of pound into build affordable and social housing again . those record level of investment will make a real difference to the life of family across the whole country . the Chief Secretary to the Treasury seem to have only one line to survive this urgent question on behalf of the Chancellor , and that be to make reference to the former Prime Minister . can he answer a simple question , to which we have already hear the answer today ? be government borrowing cost high now under he , or under the former Prime Minister in September 2022 ? I refer the hon . Lady to my previous answer . the Conservatives be responsible for the dangerous dismantling of all our public service , stagnant wage and inflation rate that peak at 11 % . do the Chief Secretary to the Treasury agree not just with I , but also with former Chancellor George Osborne , who say that the Leader of the Opposition have no " credible economic plan " ? we should not be take advice from a party responsible for 14 year of degradation . I can reassure my hon . friend that we be take no advice from the conservative party on our approach to the economy , give their dismal record . before the general election , the Chancellor say that this would be the most pro - business Government ever . she speak recently at the Times CEO summit . before she be introduce to the ceo , the host ask how many of they think that this Government be still pro - business , and not a single hand go up . why do the Chief Secretary to the Treasury think that be ? I be not at the event , so I can not comment on those discussion , but I point the hon . member to record level of investment in this country . we have £ 120 billion of investment from the private sector in the first year of this Labour Government — include , as the Prime Minister say last Wednesday at Prime Minister ' s question , £ 40 billion from Amazon . we can look at water infrastructure , housing or digital infrastructure . the United Kingdom be a country that people now want to invest in . it be a stable country with a long - term strategy and with lot of great potential and asset , and we look forward to work with those business partner and investor to get the good deal for Britain . the Institute for Government ' s review of the Government ' s performance against fiscal rule find that the previous Conservative Government change their rule in 2014 , 2015 , 2016 , 2019 , 2021 , 2022 and 2024 . in fact , all of the set of rule that exist under the Conservatives be abandon because at least one rule could not be meet . do the Chief Secretary to the Treasury agree that the Conservatives have not meet a fiscal rule they do not change , break or , in the case of Liz Truss , blow up ? I thank my hon . friend for his pertinent question . it rather beg the question of whether the last Conservative Government have any fiscal rule at all . base on the experience of all of we pay our mortgage and rent , and look at the cost of inflation at the back end of the last Parliament , the answer be no . who do the Chief Secretary to the Treasury think be most responsible for the extra 276 , 000 people unemployed since the time of the Budget ? be it the national insurance job tax , be it the business rate increase , or be it the attack that the Government have make on long - term investment , whether through agricultural property relief or business property relief ? I disagree with the premise of the question . we be not attack investment in this country ; we be welcome it . we be increase public investment , we be do deal after deal with the private sector , and we be welcome significant amount of foreign direct investment that will create good job with good wage in every part of the country . in the last 12 month , the Government have invest £ 5 million in North Tees hospital , £ 20 million in Billingham town centre and another £ 20 million in Stockton town centre — with police patrol seven day a week — £ 1 billion in local transport in Teesside and £ 4 billion in carbon capture and storage , and have rescue British Steel . do my right hon . friend agree that it be the market ' s confidence in this Government and this Chancellor of the Exchequer that give we the fiscal ability to invest in Stockton , Billingham and Norton in my constituency ? I congratulate my hon . friend on be so successful . the amount of investment that he have secure for his constituency be clearly a testament to his ability to represent it . he be right to point to all those investment , because part of the Chancellor ' s economic strategy be invest in the renewal of Britain to benefit not just his constituent , but all our constituent across the country . although I very much welcome the Government ' s decision last week to roll back on propose welfare change , it have undoubtedly put considerable pressure on the fiscal rule . I have the great concern for the middle class , who get little help to raise their child , pay for their education or feed they other than child benefit , and who will feel the squeeze of a wage increase without an increase in the child benefit threshold . with respect to the Chief Secretary , and always conscious of the importance of look after people who need help , may I ask how he will ensure that middle - class family be not squeeze far , which can only have the effect of they rob Peter to pay Paul , thereby land themselves in debt to both ? let I point to the fact that wage be now increase fast than cost — for the first time in many year . he also invite I to comment on childcare provision , which the Government agree be important to family , whether middle - class or otherwise . we have extend school - base nursery and breakfast club in school , and have subsidise childcare in nursery across the country to help work family get to work and be able to afford to do so . follow the election , I be deeply disturb to discover that the close to £ 20 million of town fund money that have be promise for Coatbridge by the last Government do not actually exist . it have be announce with much fanfare , but have not be budget for . however , thank to this Government and their plan for neighbourhood , that £ 20 million be now come to Coatbridge . do my right hon . friend agree that we must never go back to the fiscal irresponsibility of the Conservative party , which be always keen to promise but always fail to deliver ? I congratulate my hon . friend on secure investment in his constituency from this Labour Government . he be right to point out that in the past his constituent have be give fail promise , whereas this Labour Government be deliver on their promise . I thank the Chief Secretary for his statement . my thought today be with the family of Anne Moffat of Old Harlow , who lose her life 20 year ago in the 7 / 7 attack . do the Chief Secretary agree that part of the reason we have be leave with such a fiscal mess be the previous Government ' s decision to cut the number of hmrc compliance officer by 1 , 200 ? I declare an interest , because one of they be my mum . I share the sympathy of the House with the family of my hon . friend ' s constituent . my hon . friend be right to point out that investment in HMRC have be cut over many year , which make it hard for tax to be collect from those who need to pay it . the Chancellor have invest significant sum in HMRC to improve customer service for everybody who use it , and to ensure that we be get in the tax receipt that will pay for our public service . do the Chief Secretary agree that it be the very decision make by the Chancellor at the time of the last Budget , include those on the fiscal rule , that have enable this Government to invest £ 190 billion in day - to - day spending and £ 113 billion in long - term investment , and that this simply would not have happen have the conservative party be in power ? I agree . as the House know , when the Chancellor present the Budget last year , she say that this Government " choose investment over decline " for Britain . that be reflect in our spending review , which be invest in the renewal of Britain , unlock billion of pound as a consequence of the fiscal rule that the Chancellor have set out in the Budget — which be non - negotiable , and will therefore stay in place . in the context of spending decision take by the Johnson Government , the last Conservative Rail Minister , Huw Merriman , tell the Transport Committee last week : " a lot of promise be make to mps and other as to the ambition , but it do not match the amount that be actually be set down . " he go on to say : " by the time I come into post I end up with a list that be much long than could be fund . " do the Chief Secretary share my anger at the way that the conservative party try to take all our constituent for fool ? I do . it be good that my hon . friend have be able to raise that testimony from the Transport Committee , because it remind we why the british people be so angry with the conservative party after 14 year of fail promise , and why this Labour Government will always make sure that we deliver on our promise . I thank the Chief Secretary for his answer this afternoon . action of iranian Regime : UK Response before we come to the urgent question on Iran , I remind the House that there be a criminal case currently before the court in which the accuse have be charge under the National Security Act 2023 with offence relate to the targeting of UK - base journalist . this case be sub judice , and no reference should be make to it during our proceeding . there be also a separate case involve alleged terrorism offence in relation to a target in London . this case be not sub judice , because no charge have yet be bring , but hon . and right hon . member will wish to take care to avoid say anything that could prejudice the ongoing police investigation and any subsequent trial . ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs if he will make a statement on the UK ' s response to the action of the iranian regime . we have long have concern over Iran ' s malign activity . Iran ' s continued support to align group , like Hezbollah and Hamas , undermine regional stability . it support Russia ' s illegal war in Ukraine through the provision of unmanned aerial vehicle and ballistic missile , and it pose a threat to UK national , iranian dissident and jewish people in the United Kingdom . this government will hold Iran accountable for its hostile activity . the Home Secretary announce on 19 May that Jonathan Hall ' s review deliver recommendation to tackle state threat . we be committed to take they forward , include through the creation of a new state threat proscription - like tool . in April , we sanction the Iranian - back , Swedish - base Foxtrot criminal network for its role in attack against target across Europe . in September , in response to Iran ' s transfer of ballistic missile to Russia , we end Iran ' s air service agreement and stop Iran Air fly directly into the UK . we have place Iran on the enhance tier of the foreign influence registration scheme , enhance transparency regard foreign influence in the UK . we have so far designate 31 individual in relation to malign iranian activity . the UK now have more than 450 sanction against Iranian - link individual and entity , include the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps in its entirety . as we mark the 20th anniversary of the London terrorist attack , the victim , survivor and their family , and the emergency service personnel who respond that day , continue to be in our thought . two week have pass since the US airstrike against Iran ' s nuclear facility . do the Minister have an assessment of their impact , and what be his response to the iranian regime now prohibit co - operation with the International Atomic Energy Agency and its inspector leave Iran ? give Tehran ' s refusal to co - operate , be the Minister and the Department in discussion with partner about apply snapback sanction and other measure ? be he concerned that this demonstrate that Iran will continue to pursue its entire nuclear weapon programme ? give the information receive through discussion with America , Israel and other intelligence partner , will the Government finally come off the fence about the strike and agree with the opposition that they be absolutely necessary ? on our interest in the region , can the Minster assure we that he be take continue step to bolster the security of our military asset and personnel , and what assessment have he make of Iran ' s ballistic missile capability and the threat that they may continue to pose to our interest ? we agree that Iran can never have a nuclear bomb , but the regime be a fundamental menace in so many other way . it sponsor terrorism across the middle east , and threaten our own country with sophisticated plot . what work be take place across Government to respond to the threat pose to dissident in the UK , and to those with family member in Iran who face persecution as the iranian regime seek to threaten and blackmail they ? what more will the Minister do to take down the finance structure prop up the regime ' s destabilising activity , and to stand with the brave people of Iran , include human right defender , who face the most barbaric oppression ? with the iranian regime and its terrorist proxy in a weakened state due to Israel and America ' s action , do he agree that this be a moment for the Government to publish a serious strategy to roll back the regime ' s malign influence ? finally , can the Minister give an update on the discussion he have have with partner about the US - lead plan for a ceasefire in Gaza , free the hostage , aid access and secure the removal of Hamas ? I thank the right hon . Lady for her question . I be afraid I will not provide a detailed commentary from the Dispatch Box on the extent of the damage from the strike , for reason that I be sure she and the rest of the House understand . I can confirm that we be in discussion about the snapback mechanism . as the Prime Minister , the Foreign Secretary and I have say , we can not see Iran get a nuclear weapon . Snapback be an important lever , and we be talk with our E3 partner and the Americans about what role snapback can play . we hope to see a diplomatic solution , which be ultimately the most enduring way to ensure that Iran do not get a nuclear weapon , but we will continue to consider all diplomatic tool , include snapback . the right hon . Lady ask a range of other important question . I confirm that we keep regional security question , particularly in relation to our basis , under close review . since I last have an opportunity to face she across the Dispatch Box , there have clearly be quite a few change in relation to event in the region , include in our travel advice . I recognise that this have be a fraught period for those with interest in the region . I be glad to see the ceasefire between Iran and Israel hold . we be encourage by the report on the effort to secure a Gaza ceasefire , but I be not in a position to provide much further commentary at this stage from the Dispatch Box , and I will not go any far than we have already go from the Dispatch Box on the strike against Iran . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . I wonder whether the Minister might be able to help we . we have before we the iranian ambassador , who make it clear that he want to be able to continue to negotiate . give the way in which the joint comprehensive plan of action fall apart and the fact that the Iranians be in the middle of negotiate when there be the attack by the Israelis , if a significant segment of the iranian regime want to continue to negotiate , what be Britain do to ensure that we have jaw - jaw , not war - war ? my right hon . friend ask vital question . we do want serious negotiation with the iranian Government about nuclear weapon and , indeed , many other thing . the Foreign Secretary seek to play a full role in provide an opportunity for talk rather than conflict , but those talk can not be spin out indefinitely . the deadline for snapback , which be reference by the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , be fast approach , so we be under considerable time pressure . that do not mean we do not want talk to happen , but they must happen at pace and with real seriousness . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the iranian regime be utterly committed to destabilise the middle east and export terrorism globally , and under the auspex of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps be focus on threaten our own citizen in the UK . the Minister mention the introduction of the new power of proscription to cover state threat follow Jonathan Hall ' s review of terrorism legislation . will he confirm that the Government will use that new power to proscribe the irgc ? iranian community across the UK will perhaps feel the threat from Iran most severely . I also recently visit the headquarters of the Community Security Trust , which impress on I just how vital it be , at a time when many jewish people be feel worried and afraid , that the CST continue to receive our support . will the Minister outline what far step the Government will take to protect these community as well as the wide UK public from iranian - sponsor terrorism ? let I be absolutely clear . we will not tolerate any Iran - back threat on UK soil : not against British Jewry ; not against journalist ; not against any british national or anyone who be resident here . as both the Foreign Secretary and I have make clear to our iranian counterpart , we know the threat Iran pose to those in the UK , include to dissident , journalist and the jewish community . it must cease that behaviour now . we will not hesitate to take the strong possible action . the hon . Lady ask an important question about proscription . give that the irgc be an arm of the state , we have take the view that it be important to look at where the mechanism for take action against other state can be improve . that be why Jonathan Hall do his review and why , on 19 May , the Home Secretary make the announcement that she do . I reassure the House that the irgc be fully sanction in the UK . Proscription be a slightly different question . it be for those reason that Jonathan Hall have do his review . we be potentially move to a point where proscription of the IRGC need to be look at considerably more strongly as a mechanism for deal with the transnational repression that Iran be get away with . the murder of Mahsa Amini in 2022 see a wave of iranian dissident attempt to rise up against their own regime , demonstrate the bravery that so many people in this country would applaud . those people , who then have to flee , now find themselves at the mercy of iranian operative here and in our allied country . I welcome the Minister ' s commitment to prevent transnational repression , but can he say more specifically about what be happen to support iranian dissident in the UK and those who be still seek to demonstrate the horror of Iran in our allied country in the middle east ? I do not want anyone in the House to be under any illusion about the seriousness with which we take the irgc ' s activity . that be why we commission the Jonathan Hall review . that be why it be on the enhance tier of FIRS — the foreign influence registration scheme . that be why it be fully sanction . that be why we have continue to impose sanction in response to iranian aggression . I know well the threat that Iran pose not just to british national but to journalist as well , as my hon . friend eloquently point out . I have meet many of those journalist . I be appalled that some of those threat be be make here in the UK . I will not comment too much on law enforcement and intelligence activity , but I have be clear with the iranian ambassador that the full force of the law and all our capability will be focus on those who seek to harm people here . Omid Khalili , a british citizen and renowned iranian broadcaster , host a phone - in reach over 30 million Iranians . he have be target by the iranian regime . the detail have be lay out in UnHerd by the journalist David Rose , but in summary his wife , parent and sister have be detain in Iran , interrogate , threaten and their passport have be confiscate . the aim of that be to blackmail Mr Khalili into come back to Iran , where he will certainly be arrest and very probably execute . those act of intimidation be carry out by the iranian secret police and the irgc , and facilitate by so - call diplomat in the iranian embassy here . we can not ignore this state - sponsor blackmail , so what the Government ought to do be expel iranian official complicit in that behaviour and finally proscribe the irgc . the right hon . Gentleman make an important point about the pattern of iranian detention in Iran and some of the threat that we have already describe that be seek to be prosecute here . I will not say more about the state threat here , as I think I have probably lay out more than I would like to , but it be incredibly important that people be aware of the way in which the iranian state have operate and continue to operate within Iran . we be deeply familiar as a government — as I know our predecessor be — with the pattern and tactic of iranian detention . we continue to provide consular support wherever we can . we be constrain by the iranian refusal to recognise dual nationality , which often mean that those with link to the UK be not in a position , although they should be , to get consular assistance from the UK . we will continue to do everything we can to change that . an iranian - origin woman who live in Acton come to see I the other day . although she be relieve that her 90 - something grandparent be not among the civilian casualty from Netanyahu ' s US - back bombing the other day , she report that the hate hard - line regime in Iran be crack down even far on its beleaguered population . I urge my hon . friend — I think he hint at this — to proceed with caution . it be a very delicate situation and the consequence be manifold , include iranian refugee wash up on our shore in dinghy , which do not use to be widespread . there be a temptation to go in all gun blaze , but I urge my hon . friend to do all he can to get a diplomatic solution . we all want to stop Iran ' s nuclear ambition , but to do so in the right way . I confirm for my hon . friend that we be do everything we can to try to see a diplomatic solution . I have to say that I think the Minister be right in make the judgment about whether to proscribe the irgc . I support the comment make by the Chair of the Select Committee , the right hon . member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) . the theocratic regime in Iran have never be weak domestically , internationally or among its regional neighbour , so there be now a real premium on work with our european and regional ally to explore all avenue of progress through more reasonable element within Iran . I know of the right hon . Gentleman ' s long commitment to these issue . so many right hon . and hon . member have have encounter with the iranian diaspora and , indeed , more moderate Iranians . the iranian people be not the enemy of the UK . there be a broad , cultured , moderate population there who would like to live a well life , and who see their family oppress in the way the right hon . member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) describe . we must do everything we can to support they . I thank my hon . friend and his diplomat in the fcdo for their work and the emphasis on diplomacy . do my hon . friend agree with I about the importance of soft power in this situation , and that the BBC Persian service be do excellent work in explain news in a truthful way ? do he agree far that we ought to be extend a hand of friendship to the iranian people at a very delicate and sensitive time in world politic ? I very much agree with my hon . friend , on both the importance of diplomacy and the importance of BBC Persian , through which the UK make an important contribution for Farsi speaker across the world . I have meet many BBC persian service journalist and they provide a vital service . do the Minister think it more or less likely that , as a result of the american airstrike , Iran will get a nuclear bomb ? as I be sure the hon . Gentleman would expect , I will not comment on assessment at this stage , give the security and intelligence implication thereof . like many member , I have constituent who be strand in Iran . we have all hear what the Minister have tell the House this afternoon , and I know that he take the safety of british national overseas extremely seriously . will he assure the House that all practical step be be take to extend consular support , which be currently be frustrate and deny by the iranian regime ? the UK have be able to provide a very limited amount by way of consular support in Iran for some year , for exactly the reason that my hon . friend mention — it be frustrate by the iranian Government — and our warning and travel advice be clear . I be grateful to my hon . friend for provide I with an opportunity to confirm to the House that we have now reopen our embassy in Tehran after a temporary closure , and a charg é be in place . we will continue to play our full role to ensure the safety of british national in Iran and , indeed , to contribute to the diplomatic development we have discuss . the israeli and United States military action have destroy three of the facility and , of course , kill some of the scientist and irgc operative who have be involve in the nuclear programme . however , it be suggest that the Iranians remove their nuclear material to another site before that action take place , and now , of course , Iran have withdraw its co - operation with everyone in term of inspection and check on what be happen . what action be the Minister take to make sure that Iran be bring to the negotiating table to establish what have happen to that nuclear material , and indeed to ensure that Iran be not go to continue to enhance its nuclear capability ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his important question . I be sure I will receive complaint from his party ' s Front Benchers , but he will understand that I will not be comment on the assessment of the strike or on intelligence matter . but I will say that it be absolutely vital that iaea inspector be allow back into Iran ; that be the fundamental basis on which trust can be build for a diplomatic solution . now that a ceasefire be in place , the inspector must come back in . People across Newcastle - under - Lyme watch event in the middle east week in , week out with anger , horror , sadness and frustration . I be grateful to the shadow Foreign Secretary for bring this urgent question to the House this afternoon . may I ask the Minister two thing ? first , what specific engagement have happen between the British Government and our regional partner in the middle east ? I be not sure he have touch on the specific . secondly , in an answer he refer to a state threat mechanism . can he elaborate a little more on what that mean ? if he can not do that on the Floor of the House , I will be happy to have a cup of tea with he so that he can tell I in detail . I would be — [ interruption . ] there be an amusing degree of lightness from the Opposition Benches about security matter . I would be delighted to discuss this matter far . the question at issue in the Jonathan Hall report be the state threat proscription - like tool . I accept that the name be rather clunky , but it be focus on the fact that a state , in this case , have prove a persistent threat in the UK , use method unlike those usually employ by a state . I will not say very much more about that , but Jonathan Hall have identify a gap and it be that gap that we be seek to fill . I will be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss the issue far . last week , in the most tawdry and cynical fashion , a decision — bear in anger and drive by revenge — be bulldoze through this House . I wonder : while the Government be discuss proscribe Palestine Action , do the Minister or any of his Foreign Office colleague advise that Iran ' s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps could also be add to the proscribe list ? if they do not , why not ? perhaps he could explain to the House why his government consider the irgc to be less of a threat to our national security than Palestine Action . in my last answer , I try to illustrate why proscription of the irgc be a complicated question , give gap in the exist legislation . that be one of the reason why Jonathan Hall have do his review . we be committed to take forward his recommendation . the Minister have set out a desire to get Iran back to the negotiating table . can he say what step he and his colleague at the Foreign Office be take to ensure that they get that outcome ? the Foreign Office — the whole ministerial team and our diplomat — be focus on the concrete step that would be require . the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) ask an important question about the IAEA and there be an important question about snapback . there be a range of serious and impactful diplomatic measure that can be use to try to make diplomatic progress to guarantee that Iran will not acquire a nuclear weapon . I recognise that there be a long history of nuclear diplomacy with Iran that have not be a success ; that be why I say in one of my previous answer that the timeframe be not unlimited . we will take step , include snapback , if we do not make progress on diplomacy . many people believe that the pre - emptive strike on Iran by Israel and the USA be illegal under international law . Most intelligence agency , include the director of american intelligence , say that there be no viable evidence of an active nuclear weapon programme . can the Minister tell the House what the UK intelligence agency say ? I be not , for reason obvious , go to provide a running commentary on the assessment of UK intelligence agency . the Defence Secretary have say , correctly , that Operation Midnight Hammer have alleviate a grave threat , but the Attorney General appear to be less clear and wonder if it be illegal , while the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary appear to sit on the fence . I be sorry to put the Minister on the spot , but do he agree with the Attorney General or the Defence Secretary ? with the great of respect to my predecessor , he will know that the Defence Secretary and the Attorney General do rather different role . I do not think they be in disagreement , and in any case , collective responsibility would bind they both , and indeed I . may I help the Minister share a little information with the House by ask he whether the Government know of any purpose for refine uranium - 235 to 60 % purity other than to build a nuclear weapon ? I be happy to be clear that that level of enrichment have no obvious civilian purpose . we be tell that it be for research and development , but I think many observer have draw exactly the same conclusion as the right hon . Gentleman . the Minister will know that I support absolutely the decision to remove the nuclear arsenal from the hand of iranian terrorist , who have pull the trigger on various act of terrorism against this nation and other . however , it be also clear that we be leave with a difficult situation in Iran , and the call for regime change leave vulnerable child even more in need . be there more we can do to ensure that aid reach woman and child live in oppression and fear in Iran and the axis of evil ? as ever , the hon . Gentleman ask an important question focus on those who be vulnerable . we have sustain an embassy in Tehran , and I be pleased to announce that it have reopen . one of the role of the embassy be to maintain engagement that be as wide as possible with wide iranian society . there be obvious constraint , with which the hon . Gentleman will be familiar , but we do what we can where we can . give every child the best Start in life with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will make a statement on this Government ' s vital work to change our country for good by give every child the good start in life . the focus today be firmly on our young child , but the impact will be much more broad . this government be build a strong , fair society , and we will lay the foundation for it in the early year of our child ' s life . because we be determined to tackle the root cause of problem , not just the symptom , we begin at the start . the inequality that stain our country and the way in which opportunity be heap on some but hide from other be disparity that do not suddenly spring up in adulthood . our baby be bear into an unequal world , and the inequality grow with they , right from the very first day when we carry they home from hospital . early difference in the support that family can get , in the early education and childcare that parent can access , and in the opportunity that child have to start explore be all difference — these and many more — that take hold early on . the wind of fortune be already there on the first day of school — a gale at the back of some ; a blizzard in the face of other . these difference mean that some child arrive in the classroom not yet ready to learn . they mean that while two third of child reach a good level of development by age five , a third do not . half of our child on free school meal miss that important milestone , and this injustice be fuel by those difference . a Labour Government will not tolerate our child be fail like this . within month of take office , we set out in our plan for change our ambition to get a record share of child to reach a good level of development by the age of five , because it matter so much for those young life . our plan go far — it set the tone . forty per cent of the disadvantage gap at the age of 16 be already there at the age of five . next month , we know that young people across the country will pick up their exam result . some will do well , but sadly some other will be disappoint , and those result - day story of smile and frown for our young people begin to be write in the first year of their life , so if we want to build an education system where every child can achieve and thrive , if we want to grow a society where the opportunity to get on be open to all , and if we want to deliver the change that the country so desperately need , we have to focus on the early year . we have to give every child the good start in life . that be where my priority as Education Secretary lie , and that be why , just 12 month after enter government , I be proud to be here today to set out our " good start in life " strategy , which we be determined will change the country for good . give every child the good start in life begin with family . become a parent or a carer be full of joy and wonder , but we all know that it can sometimes be hard — and it can feel isolate , too — so parent and carer need to know that they can tap into a community of support . they need to know that they be not alone , but we be fall short . one in four family with child under five struggle to get trust advice ; for family on low income , it be one in three . it be not always like that . there be a time when Government care deeply about child ' s development . member across the House will know all about sure Start , the quiet revolution in the life of our child carry out by the last Labour Government . sure Start be one of the proud achievement of that Labour Government , and I be proud today to build on its legacy . we remember all the good it do for our child , for our community and for our country . sure Start raise exam result and reduce hospitalisation . it improve early identification , boost physical health and boost mental health . it reach disadvantaged family and make a difference to their life . sure Start be a triumph . of course , it be not perfect — no programme ever be — but it work in so many way and for so many family , and never more so that when it stick to its principle and bring together the excellent service that parent need . at the heart of its success be the child ' s centre : one - stop shop where family know where they could go for help ; a comforting and consistent offer of support all in one place . there be many way in which 14 year of Conservative Government damage our country and our society , but the vandalism they inflict on the life of our young child — tear these service out of community , deepen inequality and abandon family — should never be forget . today , the Government will right that terrible wrong and restore hope to family . our Best Start service will honour the proud legacy of sure Start . today ' s Labour Government stand on the shoulder of those who go before , but we do so to look forward to the well future our child deserve , not back to the past . that be how we will deliver for a new generation of family . we will introduce a new Best Start family service deliver through Best Start family hub : the first step to a national family service that ensure that family can get the right support for their child from conception to age five , give parent the freedom to focus on love their child . this morning , we announce the national year of read for 2026 . we want to give parent more time to read with their child , to grow a love of learn that start in the home and flow throughout a child ' s life . good Start family hub will be open to all , root in disadvantaged community . they will work with nursery , childminder , school , health service , library and local voluntary group — a whole community come together around one goal : to give child the good possible start in life . our Best Start digital service mean that we be ready for the future , link family to their local Best Start family hub and explore how the power of artificial intelligence can help parent find the right information . we will also make early education and care more affordable and easy to access . from the day the Government win the backing of the people , we set about deliver the entitlement of 30 hour of government - fund childcare a week for work family , back by funding reach £ 9 billion from next year . last July , we inherit a pledge without a plan , but the Government be deliver on our promise to parent , because I know how much it matter that promise make be promise keep to the future of our country and to the trust between family and their government . the cost of childcare will no long price parent out of the job they love ; instead , they will have the choice and freedom to work the hour they want and an average of £ 7 , 500 a year back in their pocket . I thank all those who be work with we to drive that change , from private nursery to school - base one , group - base provider , childminder , dedicated professional , and early year educator who be transform life chance . almost £ 370 million be provide by the Chancellor in the spending review , and we be build and expand more nursery in primary school , with the first of the 6 , 000 extra place come from September this year . soon enough , 80 % of childcare in this country will be government - back . the message be clear : this Labour Government be on the side of family . the Labour party be the party of family . that mean that childcare must be well link to educational priority , well gear to close attainment gap , and well focus on all our child succeed at school . our early year educator be too often the hidden hero of our community . it be past time that we back they , so we will raise the status of our workforce . there will be a new professional register , because work in early year be just that : a profession . there will be more high - quality training for staff , guide by the golden thread of the good evidence , and we will train more early year teacher , because we know the difference that they make to our young one . our strong practice hub will double in number , and we will offer new financial incentive to attract and keep great early year teacher in the nursery that serve the most disadvantaged community . every child deserve a great education and a great start in life , and that must extend to our child with special educational need and disability . early intervention can work wonder to lower barrier to learn , so under this Government , inclusive practice will become standard practice . this government be drive a decade of national renewal , but there can be no decade of renewal for our country without a decade of renewal for our child . this be urgent , because child only get one chance . if opportunity be miss , parent do not get what they need . if that great nursery down the road have not be build yet , that be it — there be no go back . for 14 year , child ' s life march on as service be rip away . I will not stand by and watch as more and more child be let down . through this strategy , I be bring change — change for all our family , all our community , and above all , our child . it be for they that our strategy be write , and it be for they that we will see it through , so that we give each and every child , from their first day in this world , the good start in life . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . when the right hon . Lady be in opposition , she criticise every announcement simply because it come from the Conservatives . take childcare : she call the hour model that she talk about today " break " . she say that she would have a new childcare system , and that its creation would be " like the creation of the NHS . " yet now , in government , she trumpet the childcare system that the Conservatives design as one of her main achievement . the right hon . Lady once dismiss family hub as a " poor imitation " , but after last week ' s chaos , what be she turn to for the Government ' s reset ? yes , the Conservatives ' family hub plan . that be why I be surprise this weekend to hear her claim that this could only happen under Labour . the irony be that this programme be start under the Conservatives — we do not hear that today — and the expansion be not in the labour manifesto ; it be in the conservative one . her strategy document , publish today , have even lift the name of our " good start for life " plan , publish in 2021 . imitation really be the sincere form of flattery , for which I thank the right hon . Lady . perhaps recent event have remind she that Labour do not have a monopoly on good idea — if indeed it have any good idea at all . I will not take the right hon . Lady ' s approach , which be opposition for opposition ' s sake . I agree in principle with much of what be be propose today , but as with free school meal and the child ' s care cap , I will do my job and point out the gap , raise concern and expect proper answer . she might consider engage with the question this time , instead of fall back on a rant about the Conservatives , which frankly convince no one and improve nothing . with that in mind , be this genuinely new money be announce today , or just a reannouncement of the family hub money from the spending review ? the right hon . Lady talk about £ 500 million of funding . which financial year , and how many year , do that cover ? be the funding for new hub only , or will it support exist one , too ? will there be new capital funding for brick and mortar provision ? as the Secretary of State acknowledge , sure Start have its limitation . it fail to effectively target support at those who need it most . what be be do differently this time to avoid the same mistake be make ? when I visit a family hub in Dartford early this year , I be shocked to hear how many mother be be refer to it because they face domestic violence from their own child . these be child who have grow up witness abuse at home . what datum be be collect through these hub to track national tend like these , and how be that inform the Government ' s response to the most pressing issue face these family ? I welcome the Government ' s focus on school readiness . child who live through lockdown be arrive at school with speech delay and gap in basic skill . this be one of covid ' s long shadow , but if we be serious about tackle it , we need to be honest about responsibility : what fall to parent and what fall to teacher ? teacher be step in where parent be not . they do it because they care , but it be not their job to potty - train , to brush tooth or to teach child to get dress . of course , child with SEND need tailor support — that be a different conversation entirely — but for most child , that support need to start at home . the Government have set a target for school readiness , but it relate to the end of the school reception year . we need a target that actually reflect school readiness and what have happen at home , not the brilliant work of reception teacher . the right hon . Lady have say that her no . 1 priority be early year , but the rhetoric do not match the reality . nursery across the country be on the brink because of decision her Government have make . while it be welcome that they have continue the roll - out of our early year offer , the lack of compensation for the national insurance contribution increase be force provider to either hike fee or shut their door . it be no use give out incentive payment for job at nursery if provider be close because they have be clobber by nic . finally , I must raise the issue of SEND . this have be splash across three national newspaper , and despite the off - the - record briefing from her Department , the right hon . Lady have fail to give parent any reassurance over the weekend . parental anxiety be , as we all know , go through the roof , so I will give she one more opportunity . can she confirm that no parent or child will have their right to support reduce , replace or remove as a result of her plan change ? right now , this be a Government devoid of idea . a year in , they be define by broken promise and u - turn . parent need and deserve answer on what their Government be do , and until they get they , they have every reason to doubt everything this Government have to say . every time I come here to announce the positive change that a Labour Government be bring , whether it be free breakfast club , school - base nursery or our " good start in life " strategy , what be the right hon . Lady ' s response ? the same confected outrage , the same negativity , and the same petty point scoring . she have no plan or vision for the future of our education system , and for give our child the good start in life , which they deserve . the Conservatives can talk all they want , after 14 year in government , about what they put in an unsuccessful manifesto , but it come with a post - date cheque if ever there be one . the british people rightly judge their politician not on what they claim they will do , but on what they actually deliver , and it be on that basis that this Government will be judge . the right hon . Lady ask a number of detailed question about what we be deliver . we be treble investment in Best Start family hub across the spending review period . all the detail be there for she to see in the many document that have be publish with the spending review , and in the strategy that we publish today . this be additional investment that we be put into support our young child , because this Labour Government prioritise the early year and want to make sure that all our child get the good start in life . the only policy that the right hon . Lady have be to cut budget in state school and hand a tax break to private school . that be it . [ interruption . ] order . I certainly want to listen to what the Secretary of State for Education have to say . the right hon . Lady ask about the need of child with special educational need and disability . I would say to all parent of child with SEND that there be no responsibility I take more seriously than our responsibility to some of the most vulnerable child in our country . we will ensure as a Government that child get well access to more and strengthen support with a much sharp focus on early intervention . we be invest more in support for child with SEND ; there be the extra £ 1 billion at the Budget , £ 740 million for more place , and well training and support for staff work with child with SEND . no group suffer more under the last government than child with SEND . a degree of humility on the right hon . Lady ' s part be well overdue . this be a serious and complex area that the Government be determined to get right . the Conservatives duck the difficult decision and fail to put in place the support need , to the extent that the previous Education Secretary describe the system as " lose , lose , lose " . this government will ensure that all our child get the good start in life , include child with SEND . through the school White Paper , which will come out later this year , we will ensure that all our child , include those with SEND , get well outcome . we will step up and deliver the change that our child need , and will ensure through our " good start in life " strategy that family once again get early support , timely intervention , access to healthcare , and the chance to speak with other parent about the challenge and joy of parenting . I be so proud that in the first year of the Labour Government , we be deliver more than the Conservatives achieve in 14 year . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I warmly welcome the statement from my right hon . friend the Secretary of State on restore a comprehensive and strategic approach to early year support , childcare and early education — an approach that have sadly be lack during the 14 year of the last government . in that time , we see sure Start dismantle , the cost of childcare soar , and the absence of any focus at all on quality or address the disadvantage gap . I welcome the commitment that there will be a SEND co - ordinator in every Best Start family hub . give the shortage of sendco in school , what be the Secretary of State ' s plan for the training and recruitment of this workforce , and what qualification will they have ? how be she work with colleague in the Department of Health and Social Care on the wide challenge in the workforce for educational psychologist and speech and language therapist ? I welcome the approach to inclusion in early year . my right hon . friend will know that there be huge difference in the approach to inclusion take by different provider . how will individual setting be hold to account on inclusivity under this strategy ? finally , my right hon . friend will know that there be huge expertise and quality in our maintain nursery school across the country , but many be struggle with significant financial deficit . what role do she envisage for maintained nursery school in this new strategy , and how will they be help to be sustainable ? I be grateful to my hon . friend the Chair of the Select Committee for her detailed question , and for the welcome she have give the strategy . I would be more than happy to discuss all the area with she in more detail , because I appreciate that time be often short here , Madam Deputy Speaker . we want to ensure high - quality training and support for all staff work across our education system , but my hon . friend be right that we will have a SEND train professional in every Best Start family hub , because the evidence from Sure Start be clear about the importance of early identification of need , align with well parenting support and wide health service access , so we will deliver that . maintain nursery have an incredible role to play , give the expertise that they can share across the system , and we be consider further step to support they in share and building on that expertise . as my hon . friend will know , maintain nursery often have a large number of child with SEND in their setting , and we think there be a lot we can do around inclusion there , too . on inclusion across the board , there be an important role for the revise ofsted framework in ensure that all school and education setting be genuinely inclusive . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . every child deserve to have the very good start in life possible , so I welcome any measure to tackle inequality and improve support for the early year and for family . I therefore welcome today ' s announcement both on the hub and around the early year workforce and help to raise the professional status of those who work with child in the early year . that be something that Liberal Democrats have long be call for , give the level of responsibility and expertise require in that profession . with the hub , as we have hear there be a great opportunity to identify special need early and provide contact time with mental health practitioner and important advice for parent . however , these change need to go hand in hand with address some of the deep problem face charitable and private early year provider , and I hope the Government will start by reverse the national insurance hike for early year and nursery setting together with review the rate they pay to provider to ensure that they actually cover the cost of deliver high - quality care and early year education , because we know that many nursery across the country be struggle . while I have the Secretary of State ' s attention on early year , may I raise with she the tragic case of Gigi Meehan in Cheadle and the child at the Twickenham Green nursery in my constituency , who be completely fail by their early year provider at the hand of extremely cruel , vicious , uncaring staff ? the verdict in both of those case have be utterly shocking . I know the Minister sit next to the Secretary of State , the hon . member for Portsmouth South ( Stephen Morgan ) , meet my hon . friend the Member for Cheadle ( Mr Morrison ) last week , and although the Secretary of State ' s announcement do not include it , I have read in some news report that the Government will be increase ofste inspection for nursery , something that Gigi ' s parent , my hon . friend and I be press for . however , over and above that , we do need to see a strengthening of the early year framework to include the use of CCTV . may I , Madam Deputy Speaker , say one final sentence and press the Secretary of State once again to put the parent and carer of child with special need across the country out of their misery — order . and rule out scrap ehcp — Order . I call the Secretary of State . the hon . Lady ask a number of question and I be grateful for her broad welcome for the intent of this government to make sure that all of our child get the good start in life . on early year , she will know that as of next year we be invest £ 9 billion into the system along with a near - doubling of the early year pupil premium . that go hand in hand with the £ 75 million expansion grant to support the sector ahead of the September further expansion . in addition , we be work across Government , as the strategy set out , on how we might consider simplification of funding and how we can make sure it be work as intend for both provider and for parent . I would of course be happy to discuss further issue on that with the hon . Lady . as she say , the Minister for early year education , my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth South ( Stephen Morgan ) , meet Genevieve ' s family and the hon . member for Cheadle ( Mr Morrison ) last week . to answer directly the question on Ofsted , from next April Ofsted will inspect new early year provider within 18 month of opening and will move towards inspect all provider at least once every four year , compare with six year currently , alongside there be additional investment to strengthen quality assurance and inspector training to make sure that all child be safe , love and protect . I also join with the hon . Lady in send my condolence to the family affect . I welcome the revival of a ' 90 favourite , not just oasis at the weekend , but sure start - style family service to support half a million more child . can the Secretary of State confirm that some might say we no long need to look back in anger and that these hub will be staff with SEND professional to identify need early , work with family and give vital access to speech , language , emotional and neurodiversity service ? it be hard to top my hon . friend ' s question and I will not begin to try to make far ' 90 reference . what I can say to she be that we be draw on the good of sure Start , learn from the evidence about what be incredibly effective . one other element I would add to her list be that sure Start be at its good when it work with family to understand what be most important to they — when service be co - design with family , and when family and parent have real input into the nature of those service . I remember one development in my own community that only come about because of the role of parent : many dad tell we that they want Saturday morning club so they could be involve in those service . that be the kind of change that we only get through listen to and work with parent . my hon . friend be right that we will make sure well SEND support be deliver through the Best Start family hub . we will also make sure that support for child around speech and language happen much more quickly than be currently the case , and that go hand in hand with the Nuffield early language intervention that we be roll out across primary school . will the Secretary of State agree to write to I , as a matter of urgency , regard the frankly bizarre decision by the Government to twice turn down fund for a new heating system for Meadowgate academy , a special educational need academy , rate outstanding , that provide place to 182 pupil , which be at risk of have to close as a result of that decision ? it be bizarre to announce special educational need co - ordinator , while both delay the new 210 - place new special educational need school that be to be provide to Fenland and risk the closure of the exist outstanding school , because the Government be refuse to fund a new heating system . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for raise important constituency matter . I will be happy to look into the detail . if he could share some more information with I after this session , I will ensure he get a full response . I warmly welcome today ' s announcement . sure Start be one of the great achievement of the last Labour Government , and these Best Start family hub will build on that . as a member of the Education Committee , we have hear evidence that sure Start be at its good when it be target and specific . will the Secretary of State set out what criterion will determine where these new family hub will be locate , and what I might need to do to get one locate in Leeds South West and Morley ? I can confirm to my hon . friend that his local authority will benefit from the extra funding . the area be one of those not currently fund , but it will be receive funding shortly — this year — to start the process of move towards a Best Start family hub in the next year . we will be clear with local authority that we want a focus on disadvantage , to ensure that the service be accessible to the family who need they the most . however , build on the great record of sure Start , any parent or family who need support , particularly in the early year , should be able to access it . it be great news for the baby of Britain that a cross - party consensus have break out about the importance of the very first day of life . I welcome that the family hub and the Start for Life programme have morph into the Best Start family hub programme , with cross - party support . will the Secretary of State outline what difference parent in Worcestershire will see , specifically with regard to child with special educational need ? the hon . Lady ' s local authority area be not currently fund through the programme and it will receive funding , include a share of a £ 12 million development grant , which we will confirm in the next few week , to start the process , ahead of open a Best Start family hub next year . as I say early , we will ensure there be a train SEND professional in every setting so parent get early and timely access to support . twenty five year ago this year , the then Prime Minister , Tony Blair , join my predecessor , John Denham , in open one of the first sure Start centre in the country , on the Weston estate . we remember the good that that do for family there , and we remember the effect of over a decade of slash council budget and shut sure Start centre . I welcome this announcement , which will benefit family in my constituency . obviously , we be go to need more early year educator , many of whom we lose after the pandemic , to deliver this plan , so will my right hon . friend set out how the Government will build that vital workforce where it be really need ? as a government , we want to ensure that more brilliant people want come and work in early year , and that they can gain qualification and training , and build fulfil career . we will work with the sector to do that . we will recruit more early year teacher , particularly in the area where they be need most , more than double the number of fund early year initial teacher training course by 2028 , and roll out a new early year teacher degree apprenticeship . that go hand in hand with consult with the sector on introduce a new £ 4 , 500 early year teacher incentive to attract and keep early year teacher in nursery serve some of our most disadvantaged community . I really welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement on Best Start family hub . I draw attention to the word she say in her statement : she want those hub to be " open to all " and " root in disadvantaged community " . will she bear in mind the evidence from the Rural Services Network show that if rural England be a distinct region of England , it would be England ' s poor region ? by definition , community such as mine in the Grange peninsula , the lake , the dale and the Eden valley be a long way from service and population centre . what will the Secretary of State do to guarantee that young people in rural community such as mine will be able to gain benefit from what she be propose today ? I know the hon . Gentleman always champion his community and the need of rural community across our country . with the additional £ 500 million for local authority to deliver Best Start family hub , we will set out guidance on how they can ensure that they be serve the most disadvantaged community , but local authority will have flexibility in determine how that operate . I know that many local authority that have retain or protect some element of similar provision have do so in a way that be really tailor to the need of their community , and I would be happy to discuss that far with the hon . Gentleman if he would like to write to I . may I join with many of the other relive their political youth in welcome sure Start and pay tribute to the late , great Tessa Jowell , whose vision for it inspire we all ? one of the reason why Tessa be so passionate about sure Start be that she know it would ultimately save we money by invest in family . the evidence now prove that for £ 1 in Sure Start , we get £ 2 back . the chutzpah of those on the Opposition Front Bench , who push up demand for childcare but fail to invest in it under the previous Government , therefore stand as a stark testimony . my right hon . friend will know that we still need to put much more funding into childcare . in the spirit of Tessa Jowell , do the Secretary of State agree it be time to recognise that pay people to stay married , as the marry couple allowance do , will not be as productive in help family in this country as put the £ 600 million it cost we into childcare and expand access far ? my hon . friend have always be a really powerful voice around campaign for childcare , high - quality early year education and well support for parent . I join she in pay tribute to our late friend Tessa Jowell , who make such an enormous contribution and without whom sure Start would not have happen . we be all in her debt . my hon . friend invite I to comment on matter of tax policy . she will forgive I if I do not respond directly to she , but I will ensure that her view be share with the Chancellor ahead of any fiscal event . she be right to draw attention to the fact that this Labour Government be invest in early year education and childcare , reach £ 9 billion next year . we be double the early year pupil premium , create more place in school - base nursery and ensure that the brilliant people work in early year get the support and recognition that they finally deserve . I speak about SEND funding in Cambridgeshire in a Westminster Hall last month , and I be inundate with correspondence from constituent who find themselves suffer because of the county council ' s inability to meet the statutory delivery timeframe for ehcp — an issue that be set only to worsen with the lack of clarity around the forthcoming local government reorganisation . in the debate , I ask about those sweeping change and receive no clarity . some 60 % of ehcp be outside special school , and Cambridgeshire already have one of the poor delivery rate in the country . how will the removal of a crucial lifeline for so many family in my constituency improve the educational prospect for the child who desperately need that support ? while I recognise the hon . Gentleman ' s concern about ensure that his constituent get the support that they deserve , include child with SEND , I gently say to he that it do no one any favour to scare parent . the guide principle of any reform to the SEND system that we will set out will be about well , strengthen and improve support for child both inside and outside special school . we want improve inclusivity and more specialist provision in mainstream school and absolutely to draw on the expertise of the specialist sector and create the place where we need they . there will always be a legal right to the additional support that child with SEND need . the hon . Gentleman and the Conservatives leave behind a system that have lose the confidence of parent — he describe the wait , the delay and the bureaucracy that too many parent have have to endure . a period of reflection and an ounce of humility would get the Conservatives a long way . one of the very good thing that the last Labour Government do be the roll - out of Sure Start , and one of the very bad thing that the Conservative Government do be the hollowing out of so many hundred of sure Start centre , so I be thrill by today ' s announcement . play have be squeeze out of childhood for so many year — stay - and - play be such a fundamental part of what sure Start have to offer . will the Secretary of State assure my constituent that stay - and - play , and play generally , will be a fundamental part of the offer of Best Start ? I know how hard my hon . friend have campaign on this issue , both on sure Start and on the right of all child to play . like he , I know that access to stay - and - play , rhyme time and those kind of opportunity for child and family be incredibly important , especially for family who simply do not have the money for extras — who do not have the money to get on a long bus trip or take their child to soft play . that be why that kind of support for family be so critical , and it be why Best Start family hub will make sure that child have opportunity to play and socialise and , critically , that parent get time together at what can be an isolate time . that will be a central part of everything that those family hub deliver . on Thursday , I visit the Acorns nursery and Forest school in Lindfield in my constituency , which be found 40 year ago by the indomitable Janet Irwin . its manager , Mrs Christina Franks , be recently award an mbe in the King ' s birthday honour . the Acorns have be ofste outstanding for many year , but follow a recent inspection in which one new piece of paperwork be find to be miss , it be downgrade . this be absolutely devastating for Mrs Irwin and Mrs Franks — they have shed tear and cancel their 40th anniversary celebration . the paperwork be now fix , but Ofsted be unable to come and reinspect . what advice do the Secretary of State have for the Acorns ? as the hon . Lady will understand , I can not comment on individual case , but if she write to I with the detail , I can make sure that Ofsted look carefully at the matter she have set out and provide she with a full response . my first step into politic be campaign to keep my local Sure Start centre open after the Tories take the short - sighted and frankly barbaric decision to decimate its funding . I be pleased that , with Kirklees council receive funding , parent in my constituency can once again get the help they need and child can get the good start in life . do the Secretary of State agree that this be the difference a Labour Government make ? where the Conservatives choose to close place that support family , we choose to open they . it be only through my hon . friend ' s election and through a Labour Government that this investment will be come to her community . the first investment will start to flow this year , allow her local authority to get the system and structure in place that will enable they to open up next year . I be delighted that in the first year of a Labour Government my hon . friend ' s constituent be already start to feel the benefit that come from have send she to this place . I endorse the tribute to the late Tessa Jowell — she be a remarkable lady . the Secretary of State pointedly refuse to rule out scrap ehcp . if that be her intention , may I genuinely offer she some advice ? please do not do that . I have have parent in my surgery in tear of frustration , some of whom have have to spend over two year navigate a bureaucratic assault course to get an ehcp . [ interruption . ] please — if those ehcp be take away , there will be an anguished and angry backlash , so whatever the Secretary of State be contemplate on SEN , I ask she please not to abolish ehcp . the right hon . Gentleman have set out with great clarity why the system we have at the moment just be not work . his experience be that of many member across this House ; I , too , have meet many constituent who have struggle for far too long to get the support that their child deserve . that be why , while we be invest through the Budget and the spending review in more training for staff , more place and well support for child with SEND , we be also take our time to get this right . I be listen very carefully to parent , campaigner , charity and other , so that the reform we set out deal with precisely the concern that the right hon . Gentleman have raise — how hard and adversarial it can be , and how parent have lose confidence in the system . on a more positive note , though , his local authority will benefit from today ' s announcement , and will receive additional funding towards a Best Start family hub in his community . frankly , I be shocked that Opposition Members seem to be suffer from collective amnesia when it come to figure out how we get into this state in the first place . as a SEND parent , when I be struggle over the past seven year I would have welcome some of the concern they be show today for those who have child with SEND in early year . parent be anxious and worried . that have not rise from a void , but anxious and worried they be . what reassurance and commitment can the Secretary of State give that parent and family of child with SEND will be listen to and their voice hear in any change to the SEND system in the forthcoming White Paper ? Change be desperately need , but parent , family and child must be at the heart of that . my hon . friend speak with real power , real expertise and personal experience on these matter , and I be grateful to have have the opportunity to discuss much of this with she , include her experience as a parent and as a constituency MP and what need to change . I can give she the absolute and categorical assurance not just that that work will happen , but that it be already under way . I be spend much time listen to and speak with parent of child with SEND , campaigner , charity , school leader and other . there be broad acceptance that the system just be not work , and the guide principle of any reform that we bring forward will be root in well life chance for our child with SEND . we want more support , strengthen support and more timely support . however , we be already deliver , back by extra investment go into the system . I appreciate the important need to build parent ' confidence in the system ahead of any wide reform , and that be why we be take action already . we be determined to get long term reform right , and I look forward to work with my hon . friend on make that a reality . Wiltshire be part of the f40 group , which mean that we get less money than practically anywhere else , despite the extra cost impose by rurality . we be delighted last April when it be announce that , as part of the safety valve programme , we would get a new SEND school at Bitham Park in Westbury for 130 child , reduce the number of out - of - county placement that we have every year . will the Minister say whether that programme will continue under her plan , and will she guarantee that we can still look forward to that new school opening next year ? the right hon . Gentleman will understand that I do not have at hand the precise detail of the constituency school that he raise . I would be happy to arrange a meeting for he with the relevant Minister to discuss it far . we have secure additional investment in capital at the spending review . I recognise the wide question that he raise about make sure that there be more local place close to home for child , to avoid they have to travel long distance , and we be look at that carefully . as I say , I would be happy for he to have a meeting with the Minister to discuss it far . I welcome the Government ' s focus on prevention through the roll - out of Best Start family hub . in Bedford , we have see the benefit of integrate service build on the sure Start legacy , with the Allhallows family hub set to open soon in Bedford town centre . I invite the Secretary of State to visit the hub to see how join - up youth and family service can support child , prevent antisocial behaviour and give every child the good start in life . I be delighted to hear about the experience in my hon . friend ' s constituency . I will do my very good to come and visit , but if not , I be sure one of my ministerial colleague would be able to join he and see the service directly . some of the most vulnerable and disadvantaged child be those who have be adopt or be receive kinship care . will the Best Start family hub provide any specific help for those who have lose out on access and support as a result of the cut in the adoption and special guardianship support fund ? the extra investment that be go into Best Start family hub run alongside the additional £ 500 million that we be commit to early support and preventive service along with our colleague at the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government . a number of other member have ask about the adoption and special guardianship support fund . we recognise its importance , which be why we have provide a budget of £ 50 million for the next year . we have have to make decision to ensure that more child can benefit from such support , but that go hand in hand with the kinship allowance and improve support for foster carer that we be determined to deliver as part of our wide reform of child ' s social care . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s announcement . this will make a big difference for many family in my constituency . an issue of which the Secretary of State be aware be the SEND override and the problem that it be cause local authority . second only to temporary accommodation and adult social care , SEND be the key area on which many of they be focus , so I welcome the fact that she want to work with campaigner and family in look into this long - term issue . she also mention the digital offer for the Best Start family hub . as she will know , many family — the very one we need to target — be digitally exclude . will she tell we a bit more about what that digital offer will be ? my hon . Friend ask first about the statutory SEND override , and I know that , as Chair of the Select Committee , she take a serious interest in this area . we recognise that local authority will need support during the transition to a reform SEND system , which be why we extend the statutory override in the spending review , and , as my hon . friend know , we have provide some detail for local authority and will provide more . as for the digital offer , I appreciate my hon . friend ' s point about the need to give all family access to service . there be still challenge involve digital exclusion , and she be right to draw attention to they . we will provide more detail about how the digital offer align with the NHS offer before long , but effective outreach support and community engagement be also critical . one of the key lesson that we should take from Sure Start — and the evidence for this be incredibly strong — be that it be at its most effective , and have the great reach and impact in respect of disadvantaged child , when there be strong engagement with community . through the work that the Cabinet Office have recently be lead , we have learn of important way in which we can ensure that more disadvantaged parent who be struggle with issue such as poverty have access to those service , and as we proceed with the wide roll - out we will be sure to take that on board as well . More than 300 , 000 child in mainstream school receive education , health and care plan , include many from my constituency , but it be be report that that vital provision may disappear . whatever the challenge of the SEND system , surely the answer be not to remove those right , because family can not afford to lose such precious protection . will the Secretary of State confirm that ehcp will not be remove for child receive mainstream education ? be it not fascinating that so many conservative Members be suddenly take a keen interest in support for child with SEND ? the hon . Gentleman blithely say , " whatever the challenge of the SEND system — " , but they be challenge that the Conservatives leave behind , and they be challenge that this Labour Government will rise to . there will always be a legal right to the additional support that child with SEND need , and we will protect it . alongside that , however , will be a well system , with strengthen support , improve access and more funding , something that the Conservatives fail to provide in 14 year . they leave a terrible mess behind — family and child be fail — and a degree of humility and understanding from any of they would take we a great deal far along the way . if they do not want to be constructive and if they continue to duck the necessary decision , we will confront those decision and ensure that all our child be able to achieve and thrive , something in which they show no interest . today be a really proud moment for I , because 20 year ago I work for our brilliant sure Start centre in Stoke - on - Trent . I see at first hand the way they completely transform the life of family in my area . I then see the terrible removal of family support by the Conservatives in the austerity year — they leave more kid in poverty and more live in care . can the Secretary of State outline how the roll - out of more family hub will improve school readiness and help to lower the number of kid live in poverty and in care in my constituency of Stoke - on - Trent North and Kidsgrove ? my hon . Friend see at first hand the difference that sure Start make . through his election to this place , a new generation of child in his constituency will once again benefit from the kind of support that be so essential , and we will support his local authority with additional funding for that . he be right to say that this be about child grow up in poverty and the wide failure in our child ' s social care system . that be why I be so proud that , thank to the action of a Labour Government , more child will receive free school meal through the expansion of eligibility to all family in receipt of universal credit . alongside that , we will deliver the big reform in a generation to child ' s social care , to make sure that family be well support to stay together where they can , with early help and target intervention . where that be not possible , we will make sure that our most vulnerable child do not see wholly inadequate and terrible placement that fail to deliver the kind of support that we would expect for our own child . that be the difference that a Labour Government will make . I sincerely thank the Secretary of State for today ' s announcement , recognise that one - stop shop for advice and support should be available to every parent in every community . I be sure she will know that my local authority , West Sussex county council , currently do not receive Start for life funding , so I be excited to see how this deliver for my constituent . I chair the all - party parliamentary group on infant feeding . can the Secretary of State confirm that Best Start centre will be firmly rooted in evidence - base feeding support to ensure that all parent , regardless of how they choose to feed their baby , can access the guidance and help that they so desperately need ? through today ' s announcement , the Department for Education will fund support in the hon . Lady ' s constituency , and I be sure that will make a big difference to the people she represent . I be grateful for her work on infant feeding , and I can give she an assurance that the support put in place will be root in the well available evidence right across all the intervention that the Best Start family hub will provide . if there be more information about the work of the all - party parliamentary group that she would like to share with I , I would be happy to consider it far . I be pleased to meet official from my right hon . friend ' s Department at a centre in Hackney . I also meet official from the Department for Work and Pensions , and it be really apparent that the work be do to help parent get into work be critical . could she expand on how that will fit into the Best Start centre ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for identify the work that be already go on in her constituency . although it be lead by the Department for Education , the strategy that we be set out today be the work that we will drive right across Government . we be work with colleague in the Department for Work and Pensions on access to childcare support and on route back into work and training for parent , but also with colleague in the Department of Health and Social Care on how we can improve access to speech and language support , health visit support and much more besides . that be why my right hon . friend the Health Secretary set out a direction that align with ours through the 10 - year NHS plan . in her statement , the Secretary of State say that every child deserve a great education , include child with SEND . I do not think anybody could disagree with that , but for parent and pupil in my constituency , and up and down the country , warm word be one thing but concrete outcome be another . can the Secretary of State guarantee that not a single child who be currently in receipt of special need support will lose it under the Government ' s policy ? child will continue to receive the high - quality support that they need — I can give the hon . Gentleman that absolute and categorical assurance . once again , I observe that Conservative Members do not show the same level of interest when they be in government . that be why we have end up in this sorry state , with far too many child be fail by the system leave behind by his party . we be determined to improve outcome for child with SEND and to put in place well support , and that be back up by the extra investment already go into the system . of course , there be much more that we need to do to deliver well outcome for all child . that be what we be work towards , and the reform that we will set out will be properly inform and shape by the conversation , discussion and meeting that I , ministerial colleague and official be have with parent , group and campaigner in order to get this right . if the Conservatives would like to be constructive about that — just for once — I would be happy to engage with they on it , but I be afraid that be not what we be see this afternoon . the roll - out of the Best Start family hub across every local council area will make a huge difference to family , tackle inequality in my constituency , particularly with the cross - work between health , social care and education . like so many other , I be absolutely incredulous at the Conservatives , who — help by the Liberal Democrats in the coalition year — force so many cut on local authority that lead to the demise of Sure Start centre . do the Secretary of State agree that it be yet again a Labour Government who have make the decision that will break down barrier to opportunity for all child , regardless of postcode ? yes , it be this Labour Government who will ensure that family get well access to health support and family service , and that they can do so much more rapidly . my hon . friend be right to draw attention to the record of the last government in this area . she will know that it be not just in this part of our work that we be deliver real change for family in her community . I be delighted to join she to visit one of the first new free breakfast club open at Denbigh primary school , and it be brilliant to be there right at the start of its breakfast club expansion . that be the difference she be bring to her community for family , child and their life chance . Jill , a speech and language therapist from my constituency , tell I that in the last five year the decline in child ' s ability to be understand and to socialise have be stark , lead to their own isolation . I also hear from William ' s mum yesterday about the isolation of mum and dad who nobody want to be with because their child be difficult . can the Secretary of State confirm whether there will be health visitor and those who identify speech and developmental delay in Best Start family hub , and whether local authority in Dorset that appear affluent but have pocket of deep poverty will be able to access funding ? yes , I can confirm that . the hon . member be right to draw attention to the critical work of our health visitor and our speech and language therapist , who do some amazing work to support child and family , but I appreciate that they often feel overstretched and overwork at the moment . that be why we want to ensure — and I be work closely with the Health Secretary on this — that we not only support more health visitor to train and to work in the profession , but deliver improvement to health visit to well support parent , to make it easy to access health visit service and to ensure that more child be get the early check that be so important in identify speech and language need at the early possible point . I have see some brilliant work that our speech and language therapist have do on this . while some child will of course continue to have an endure need that require specialist intervention , I think there be more we can do in the reception year , with the Nuffield early language intervention , to identify child who might need additional target support , but who can make very rapid progress with that support . the evidence be clear that that be particularly the case for more disadvantaged child . today ' s news on Best Start family hub be absolutely brilliant . the loss of sure Start in community such as mine be still keenly feel by the local community . however , family need support not just from Monday to Friday , as be bring home to I last week on a visit to the family department of my local hospital . be any thought be give to extend service — particularly when it come to healthcare and education , as well as the additional support in these hub — to weekend ? my hon . friend be right about access to both family support service and health service . I have discuss this with the Health Secretary , and I know he take a keen interest in it . when family be able to access appointment only during the school day , that can mean child ' s attendance at school take a hit . that be why , through the NHS 10 - year plan , we be work very closely on that . also , one of the lesson I see from the last sure Start programme be how , when we listen to community and parent , we deliver the service they want , which be not always the service the professional think they need . that be why work with parent and community on design service in a way that be genuinely accessible to they will be a critical part of what we expect local authority to do . only 34 % of disadvantaged pupil in Bath meet the require standard for reading , writing or math in 2021 - 22 , which be well below the national average . it be always surprising that Bath , which be a prosperous city , have very deep pocket of deprivation . the Language for Life programme in my constituency have make a big difference in participate school for the young people who need additional , but not specialist , support — the Secretary of State have already mention that difference between additional and specialist support . how can she ensure that the most disadvantaged family , who be the least likely to ask for support , have access to these additional service ? the hon . member be right to seek to ensure that family face extra challenge or struggle and the most disadvantaged family have access to Best Start family hub . again , the evidence , particularly from the first phase of sure Start , demonstrate that engagement with parent and community — good outreach work — be critical to build that . I recognise what she say about some of the gap , include in what be otherwise perceive as prosperous community . that be why we be put a lot of emphasis on support for reception year to make sure that , as child arrive at school , they have the support they need to thrive , and to make sure that our brilliant staff work in early year and reception be able to identify need much more quickly and put in place the support require . give the importance of family hub , I know the Secretary of State share my disappointment that neither Central Bedfordshire nor Hertfordshire previously receive a single penny of family hub funding . it be vulnerable family in the town and village in those area of my constituency who be pay the price , so I be delighted that we be put that right today . one of the shortcoming that lead to be not enough young people with special educational need have those need identify early with support be put in place at an early age when , as we all know , the evidence tell we it be most effective . as we roll out more best start hub , how can we ensure that tackle SEND challenge and provide support at the early possible opportunity be at the heart of the Government ' s plan ? I agree with my hon . friend , and we want to ensure that no parent face parenthood alone . be a parent be a wonderful joy , but it sometimes come with many challenge . that be particularly true when a parent be worried that their child be struggle and not quite make the progress they would expect , so be able to access family support service close to home be absolutely critical . he be also right to draw attention to the need for well support for child with SEND . that be why we will make sure that Best Start family hub have a dedicated professional work with family of child with additional need . I welcome today ' s announcement , but Joanne from my constituency of Taunton and Wellington have ask I to advocate for child with special educational need and disability , give the number involve and the limitation on resource . this be at a time when Somerset ' s auditor have blame the predecessor council for decision that " lead to funding shortfall in each future year in perpetuity . " will the Secretary of State and the Government ensure that council such as Somerset be properly fund so that parent and child with special educational need do not have to wait the one or two year they currently do for assessment , which can devastate their education ? at the Budget and at the spending review , we allocate additional investment to support council . however , I recognise what the hon . Member say about the importance of timely support in identify need much more quickly and put in place the support require , which be why we be invest an extra £ 1 billion in SEND support . we be provide council with £ 740 million to support they to create more specialist place in mainstream school to make sure we build parent ' confidence in the system and create the place need , alongside additional investment to support the workforce to well support child with SEND . I be so grateful for my right hon . friend ' s focus and commitment on invest in our very young , not least because when we invest in early year , we change the trajectory of a child ' s life . will she look at the model we have create in York , where we have not only a SEND co - ordinator , but a SEND hub , so that we can bring all those specialist service together , which can be really transformative for family as a one - stop shop ? I be grateful to my hon . friend . I know the Under - Secretary of State for Education , my hon . friend the Member for Lewisham East ( Janet Daby ) have visit and see at first hand the difference that be make and the impact it be have . we be very keen , through this programme and wide development in the strategy , to draw on the brilliant practice and expertise that be out there . I would be happy to discuss that far with my hon . friend to really understand what York be do well and how we might think of that as the basis for further development right across the country . may I invite the Secretary of State to congratulate Burhill primary school in Hersham , which I visit this morning ? it have be re - award for excellence in wellbee for the second year in a row for provide great mental health provision . my constituency be a large contributor to the Exchequer , but it be also one of the most unequal . headteacher see that disadvantage every year in their reception class . will she make a commitment that the hub will be distribute throughout the country , in every constituency where there be need ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right about the importance of mental health in our school , which be why we be roll out mental health support team right across the country . what I can confirm to the House today be that , as well as make sure we have fund in place for the area that do not currently receive funding — 65 local authority — we will also be roll out additional investment to all local authority . we will confirm allocation for all local authority in the autumn , but this be an extra half a billion pound of investment over the course of the spending review period — a significant extra investment in our child and their life chance . I thank the Secretary of State for her brilliant statement today and , as I do with the Prime Minister last week , I thank she for her recent visit to Harlow . how will the hub , like sure start before they , work in collaboration with local community to benefit people in Harlow and across Essex ? I have to say , people on the doorstep still talk about the importance of sure Start in my community . we will ensure that voluntary and community group have an important role to play in our family hub . I be grateful for everything my hon . friend do to champion Harlow and his community . Harlow will now benefit from the extra investment that I be announce today through the " good start in life " strategy . it be through his election to this place and a Labour Government that his constituent will once more see the service they need and deserve . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement , which contain really good news . I very much welcome the report she have release , which state : " postcode shouldn ' t dictate the support available , but one in four family with child under five can not access local child ' s centre or Family Hubs , rise to one in three low income family . " today , the Secretary of State have ensure that more child and parent will be able to access opportunity — truly good news . she will be aware that child in Northern Ireland live in great poverty than those in most postcode here . I know , personally , that she have a deep interest in Northern Ireland , although she do not have responsibility for it . I appreciate that and I welcome the conversation she have have with I and with other member of Parliament from Northern Ireland . what discussion will she have with the Education Minister in the Northern Ireland Assembly to ensure that child in Northern Ireland postcode have access to these type of hub ? will additional Barnett consequential funding be available for rural area , which be so isolated ? as the hon . Gentleman know , I be in Northern Ireland at the end of last year , during which time I be able , as part of my work co - chair the child poverty taskforce , to meet many charity , campaigner and parent about what they want to see through that work . that be important to hear , because the responsibility that we carry through the child poverty taskforce be UK - wide . that be also a welcome opportunity for all UK Education Ministers to come together , include his colleague in Northern Ireland . we continue to work with our colleague right across the UK as part of that important work . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement and for her recognition that where people live should not dictate the support available to they when they be grow up , nor when they want to start a family . I really welcome the work that she be lead to support our young people ' s mental health and wellbeing . she will recognise that young and young child be present with mental health issue . will she set out how our Best Start family hub will help to address the early driver of mental illness for child and young people before they reach crisis point , and ensure that every child be support to thrive from an early age ? I be grateful to my hon . friend . through the announcement today , his local authority will benefit from extra investment in Best Start family hub . again , that be the difference that come from elect he to this place . he be right to identify the grow challenge that many of our young people experience with their wellbeing and mental health , include at a young age . alongside the early support that we need to put in place , I know that the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care be determined to ensure that we be take action on more acute service to tackle the unacceptable wait for child and adolescent mental health service . in addition , the support for parent through the Best Start family hub will be critical . it be parent , work together with their child and professional , who make the big difference . the evidence from Sure Start be clear about that . I warmly welcome the Secretary of State ' s announcement . in Dudley , our family hub be in St Thomas ' s , one of the most deprived ward in the borough . currently , it provide parent group , baby clinic , prenatal support and much more , but its funding be uncertain . will my right hon . friend outline how the new announcement will enhance the hub , so that family can continue to receive vital service , include SEND support ? through today ' s announcement , we be ensure that area that do not currently receive funding will receive it , but alongside that we will ensure that all local authority be able to deliver into the next phase . my hon . friend be right that the service in her community , include those serve the most disadvantaged community , make an enormous difference . that be why I be incredibly proud that we be invest half a billion pound across the spending review period , which will allow we to reach half a million more child than be the case right now . I congratulate my right hon . friend , partly for the launch today of the national year of reading . as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on literacy , that be a wonderful and joyous thing to see . we all know that read with child can be great not just for their literacy development , but for their oracy , as well as for boost confidence and parental engagement with child . in Stoke - on - Trent , we have a wonderful family hub operate in the Bentilee ward in my constituency . its success be due to the fact that it be co - create by organisation on the ground , such as Thrive at five and Alpha Academies , that understand the importance of family and the nuance of those community . will the Secretary of State say a little more about what flexibility there will be in the future hub ? may I invite she or one of her ministerial team to visit the Bentilee hub , so that they can see what great work we be do and how it might inform national practice ? I be grateful to my hon . friend . I have hear much about the work go on in Stoke , include the Thrive at five programme , and I know my hon . friend meet the Minister to talk about that . I would be happy to visit , or perhaps one of my colleague might be able to , but I would love to see or hear more about what be go on there , because I have hear wonderful thing . it demonstrate the value of ensure that service be responsive to what parent want , as well as there be a clear set of expectation about minimum level of support alongside that , really target to the need of community and parent . that be where sure Start be at its good : listen to community , work with community and build that trust , include among family who might otherwise not feel able to access that kind of service . my hon . friend mention the national year of reading . I be delighted with the role he have play to make it a reality that today we be announce that 2026 will be a national year of reading . it will be a welcome and timely opportunity to spread the joy and love of read throughout our country to ensure that all our child have access to a fantastic range of book . perhaps we , as adult , can lead by example by read a little bit more and not scroll quite so much . I thank the Secretary of State and her Department for rightly put a spotlight on the early year . before come to this place , I lead a global campaign to ensure that early childhood development be include in the UN ' s sustainable development goal , and I work with the late , great Tessa Jowell to highlight the UK ' s global leadership on this subject . it be great to see a Labour Government step back into that leadership role , because we know that early intervention be critical , especially for child with additional need . on that point , will the Secretary of State confirm how SEND provision will be embed in Best Start family hub to support parent and child in my Bournemouth West constituency ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for all the campaigning she have do over many year to get we to this point . it be only a Labour Government who would bring forward this kind of strategy to ensure that all our child be set up to succeed , break the link between background and success , and ensure that at the early moment in our child ' s life , we give they the support they need . that be why we be set out , through the strategy , the important work that Best Start family hub will provide in term of train support for child with SEND , so that we be well able to identify additional need at an early point . that run alongside further funding for early year special educational need co - ordinator , so that staff in our early year setting be well train and well able to support family . when child then arrive at school , teacher will already be able to understand where there might be additional challenge or where extra support may be require . I thank the Minister for her statement . in Ilford , our engagement hub bring together family service , citizen advice , revenue and benefit team , and enforcement officer — in effect , the council be take into the community — so I particularly welcome today ' s announcement of Best Start family hub that will operate on a similar model . will the Secretary of State explore the opportunity to co - locate service as per the Redbridge model , and confirm that train SEND co - ordinator will be place in the new hub to identify need , work with parent and ensure easy access to early year support ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for identify the brilliant work that be already go on in his constituency . through today ' s announcement and the " good start in life " strategy , his community and his constituent will see extra investment and more support for precisely the kind of service he identify . this will be a crucial part of the shift that we make both in education and in health , move away from treatment to prevention , with more support root in community that it be easy for parent and family to access and that , critically , be focus on deliver the good start in life for all our child . like other , I welcome the ' 90 resurgence . with that in mind , how will this announcement coincide commitment to inclusive play in park ? I be sure we all agree that all child deserve a park life . that be very good . I slightly resist be draw into the Oasis reference early , and now we have move on to Blur . I will stay out of that one , even though I have my preference . my hon . friend be right to talk about the importance of play for all child . it be strike — I be sure she will have hear the same thing from her young constituent — that many child often do not feel safe to go out of the house and to be on our street . we absolutely have to tackle that , because it be have a big impact on not just their mental health but their physical health . I would be happy to discuss that far with my hon . friend . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement . at a recent joint meeting of the Work and Pensions Committee and the Education Committee , Sure Start be name by the panel as the previous Labour Government ' s most positive policy for child . the policy have a very proud legacy , yet the Conservative party close 50 % of our centre in Leicestershire . do the Secretary of State agree that build the foundation and invest in family , as happen at our family hub in North West Leicestershire , will ensure long - term benefit like those achieve by sure Start ? will she say how good start family hub will work alongside pre - school and primary school to aid the delicate transition into school ? the hub will be key to our vision for how we well join up education and health service in the community , but they will also work with voluntary and community group , childminder , library and other to bring service close to local people . my hon . friend talk about the important link between early year setting and the start of school . we be set out through the strategy how we will do more to well join up the support between early year setting and school . we will use that not only as the basis for great expertise , training and development , but , crucially , as the basis for well life chance and opportunity for child . if we can identify where child be struggle and not make the progress we would hope they be make , and share that at the start of school , it will make a really big difference . as the mother of young child , I welcome the creation of " good start in life " family hub and share the Government ' s determination to give every child the good start in life in Aldershot , Farnborough , Hawley , Blackwater and Yateley . my constituency be home to thousand of serve personnel and their family . military life can bring unique pressure : frequent relocation , disrupt healthcare and childcare , and long period of separation . will the Secretary of State set out how the new hub will support armed force family and honour our commitment to prevent discrimination under the armed force covenant ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for everything she do to champion our armed force community , not least give their importance to her constituency . I will make sure that we reflect far on how we can ensure that our force family be able to access service . my hon . friend ' s local authority be one area that currently do not receive funding but , after today ' s announcement , it will shortly receive funding . her area will share in a £ 12 million development grant that we will confirm in the next few week , to help it hit the ground run and get set up from April next year . there will then be ongoing support throughout the spending review period . I do , though , take seriously my hon . friend ' s challenge about make sure that force family be able to access and benefit from the service . I would be happy to have a conversation with she , or if she can provide more information about what would be helpful to her constituency , I will happily look into it . I strongly welcome the Secretary of State ' s announcement . under the Conservatives , 40 sure Start child ' s centre in Birmingham be shut down , include seven in my constituency , with devastating consequence for thousand of child who need that support . I be so glad that Labour be take action to turn the tide . will she confirm that when funding allocation be make at local authority level , factor such as population size and child poverty rate , which be particularly important in an authority like Birmingham , will be take into account ? yes , we will consider the factor that my hon . friend mention . later in the autumn , we will confirm the allocation across all local authority for the next phase . that run alongside the development grant that will go to local authority that do not currently receive funding . it will be a massive boost to my hon . friend ' s constituent and to people right across the country ; it be half a billion pound over the course of the spending review period . as someone who feel the benefit of be bear and grow up under the last Labour Government , I welcome this Labour Government ' s decision to give child the good start in life . local charity Home - Start Kettering do phenomenal work , but over recent year it have see an increase in demand for its service . will the Secretary of State confirm how the " good start in life " strategy will work with local charity to help achieve the Government ' s objective of get more child school ready ? my hon . friend be right to draw attention to the important work of voluntary and community group , which will have a central role to play , not least because they be often well able to access and support family who might otherwise find it difficult to go through the door of a centre , and who might feel a certain kind of reluctance about statutory service . their role and work be critical to what we will take forward . my hon . friend be right that the last Labour Government do amazing thing , and today ' s announcement build on the proud record of sure Start . as a fellow SEND parent , I fully concur with the comment make by my hon . friend the Member for Thurrock ( Jen Craft ) about the system we inherit and the lack of humility from those on the Opposition Benches . I thank the Secretary of State for visit my constituency 10 day ago to see the incredible work carry out by staff at Peareswood primary school in Slade Green . Slade Green and the northern part of Crayford have real deprivation , and the conservative council in the London borough of Bexley close the sure Start in both those ward . do the Secretary of State agree that it be ridiculous not only that the council do that , but that it receive no money from the previous Conservative Government for family hub ? will she commit today to turn that situation around and finally give my council money for family hub ? yes . as a result of today ' s announcement , my hon . friend ' s local authority will now receive funding to roll out those service . I join in his sheer incredulity at the fact that such effective , brilliant service be closed . how short - sighted , and what an impact we have see on child and their life chance ! I know from my visit to Peareswood in my hon . friend ' s constituency how much brilliant work be go on , thank to the amazing staff who work in our school and in early year education . I also know what a brilliant Member of Parliament staff there have champion their cause in the House . I hear the most thought - provoke question from my young constituent . on a recent visit to an infant school , a six - year - old ask I what I think the Government ' s most important achievement might be . today , I would like to tell she that our two local authority , Wokingham and read borough council , which previously receive no family hub funding , be each set to receive a Best Start family hub . that be one of the most important achievement a Labour Government can make . the Institute for Fiscal Studies be clear about the evaluation and the long - term economic benefit ; will the Secretary of State ensure that economic evaluation be bake in , so that we can ensure that these project be fund for the long run ? absolutely . the impact on child and their life chance be clear , but the work of the Institute for Fiscal Studies , which we have look at carefully , be also clear about the wide economic benefit . I be delighted that my hon . friend ' s constituent will now benefit from a Best Start family hub . the reason why they , include the child she just mention , will benefit be that the people of her constituency send she to this place and elect a Labour Government . the last government ' s decimation of sure Start be nothing short of social vandalism ; the paroxysm of outrage from the Conservative Benches feel like an arsonist complain that the fire service have not put the fire out quickly enough . I welcome this policy because the family hub will make a real difference . can my right hon . friend tell I how constituency that be , like Calder Valley , define by town and somewhat ropey local transport will get the full benefit of the family hub , as urban area will ? my hon . friend ' s community will benefit from the extra investment in today ' s announcement , alongside the wide announcement in the " good start in life " strategy , which focus on a number of important area , include early - year education , reception , the support we put in place for parent , and the funding to deliver that . my hon . friend be right to draw attention , as other have , to the need of community that be geographically isolate , include rural community . some of the good and most effective work that we have see have include outreach work with community and family directly — work to understand their need and tailor and deliver service accordingly . be responsive to what parent be tell service would be good and most effective . last year , I be delighted to welcome my right hon . friend to our family hub in Guisborough — one of three that our Labour council open across East Cleveland . I commend the work of Nicola Hall and her team at those centre . today our Government have go even far by invest in early year service to benefit work family right across the country . I commend this statement and this Secretary of State for deliver that . will local authority with exist provision , like mine , be able to access this funding and benefit in future ? I have a fantastic visit to my hon . friend ' s constituency . it demonstrate that even in the face of the very difficult funding settlement that many local council have endure , brilliant council have seek to prioritise investment . as the then lead member on that council , my hon . friend do incredible work ensure that family have access to support . what have always remain with I from our visit be how important it be to bring speech and language provision into the family hub . we really want to build on that . yes , I can confirm that all local authority will benefit from the announcement today , include my hon . friend ' s . we will confirm allocation for all local authority in the autumn . the previous Conservative Government do not give a penny to Bracknell Forest council to deliver early year support through family hub . can the Secretary of State confirm that she will end that injustice ? bracknell family need that support too — for SEND and speech and language , as well as health support . it be so desperately need . will she provide that support ? yes , we will make sure that my hon . friend ' s local authority get the support that it be previously deny . it will be able to share in a £ 12 million development grant , which we will confirm in the next few week , so that it can hit the ground run and put in place the service need from April next year . we will then confirm the wide programme of allocation alongside it . I know how much my hon . friend care about ensure that all our child get the good start in life , include child with SEND . it be only because his constituent send he here and deliver a Labour Government that they will now benefit from Best Start family hub and all the brilliant service alongside they . I really welcome the statement today , as I be sure do the resident of Normacot , whose excellent family hub they fight hard to save many year ago . but we need more in my constituency of Stoke - on - Trent South . stoke - on - Trent consistently lag behind the national average . many child start school unable to speak , and infant mortality rate be the high in the country . we consistently rank high for the number of child in care across England , and in some part of my constituency , child poverty be as high as 76 % . stoke ' s child deserve well . the Best Start hub offer an opportunity to improve health , to help child reach their development goal and to improve parental wellbeing . will the Minister meet I to discuss the critical need for more of these hub in my constituency ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to draw attention to the shocking failure to support so many child grow up in poverty or go through the social care system . the outcome be often tragic . that failure be inexplicable , give the trauma that many of those young people have experience . we be bring forward reform to child ' s social care to make sure that all our child get the good start in life . the Under - Secretary of State , my hon . friend the Member for Lewisham East ( Janet Daby ) , be lead that work ; she bring her experience of social work to bear , so that we understand how we can do more . I will be more than happy to meet my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Dr Gardner ) to discuss how we can go far , but her local authority will benefit shortly from extra investment around the development grant and wide funding across the spending review period . I warmly welcome the roll - out of Best Start family hub . they build on the legacy of sure Start — one of the proud achievement of the last Labour Government . the Secretary of State may remember our visit to High Tunstall college of science when she last come to my constituency of Hartlepool . the head tell we that he could pinpoint precisely the year group that have not have access to sure Start , such be the additional challenge that those young people face . do the Secretary of State agree that the brilliant announcement today mean an investment not only in our child and grandchild , but in our wide society , and that it will ultimately save the taxpayer money ? my hon . friend be absolutely right : as well as the real benefit to child and family , there be clear economic benefit . he describe what I have hear from so many school and college leader and university vice principal across our country . they tell I , " if you can do one thing , invest in the early year — that ' s where you will make the single big difference . " that be what this Labour Government be do . I thank the Secretary of State for her fantastic statement . could she elaborate on how the Best Start family hub will support the family that I represent in Erewash , and those across Derbyshire , who be fight for a well deal for child with special educational need and disability ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that issue . change and reform be need to the system . that be why we be invest an extra £ 1 billion in support for child with SEND , and why we be invest in capital programme to create the specialist place need in mainstream school , alongside deliver well mainstream inclusion . it be why we be roll out the partnership for inclusion of neurodiversity in school programme — the PINS programme — across more than 1 , 000 extra school . we be deliver the support around neurodivergence that many of our staff say they need . through the PINS programme , I have see the critical work that can be do between parent and staff — often quite small , practical change that can make the world of difference to child ' s attendance at school and , critically , lead to well outcome for child with SEND . they say that it take a village to raise a child , but it take a Labour Government to give every child the good start in life . I warmly thank the Secretary of State for her announcement . as she may well know , in Suffolk not a penny be spend on family hub at the moment . she say that this announcement be a game changer for child with special educational need , and mention future provision be inclusive . in rural area , there be decline population in our primary school . will she outline whether there be an opportunity to use the increase in capacity to increase provision for SEND ? follow today ' s announcement , my hon . friend ' s community will benefit for the first time from funding that will allow for a Best Start family hub and wide service deliver through that . she be right to identify that although the fall birthrate , include in her community , present a challenge , it allow we to think about how we can use the school estate to well deliver support for child . it be a key priority of this Labour Government to deliver more specialist provision in the mainstream . I have see some brilliant example from right across the country of child be able to go to school in their local community with the targeted , specialist support that be need . they can spend some of their time in a mainstream setting but also get the additional specialist support require . through our capital settlement at the spending review , we will deliver more support for child in her constituency and right across the country . rise — order . to ensure that everyone get in , could question and answer be short ? the IFS find that sure Start deliver benefit significantly great than its cost , yet it be still slash by the Tories , with well over 1 , 000 centre close . it be one of the big act of vandalism under austerity , stunt life chance for too many for a generation . can the Secretary of State outline how she expect this investment to work in area with very high level of inequality , such as my constituency , where life expectancy at birth differ by 19 year between one community and another ? as my hon . Friend say , we know from research by the Institute for Fiscal Studies that sure Start generate widespread long - term benefit in education and health , even reduce school absence and identify support for child with SEND much more quickly . we will build on the lesson of sure Start as we roll out good Start family hub . my hon . friend be right to mention the importance of tackle entrench inequality within community as part of that and ensure that all our child be set up to succeed . I warmly welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement . although new and fit for the modern age , it hark back to an era not only when great band be in their infancy , but when a Labour Government be invest in our young people in their infancy . back at that time , I attend the dad club at the Sure Start centre in Rugby every Saturday morning , where dad from all background benefit from the advice and camaraderie that come of those meeting , and they help we become well dad . do my right hon . friend agree that the Best Start family centre will help dad , and all parent , to become well parent , which will really help with our young people ' s life outcome ? I agree with my hon . friend , and I be pleased to hear about his experience . it be important that service deliver through Best Start family hub respond to the need of mum , dad and carer alike . the example he give demonstrate the importance of listen to parent about what they want to see . through the measure announce today , his local authority area will benefit from extra investment in order to get up and run in the next year and on an ongoing basis . that show once again the difference that a Labour Government be bring to his community . I congratulate the Secretary of State ; her measure will certainly give every child the good start in life , and Best Start be one of her many good idea . we have a crisis of basic nutrition , where child be obese while also malnourished , and have decay tooth . do the Secretary of State agree that Best Start will go far to address this issue ? my hon . friend be right to draw attention to the important link between education and health , particularly give his expertise . that link be why I be proud that we announce a big expansion to free school meal to make sure that more of our child get a nutritious meal during the day . it be why the Health Secretary be work to tackle tooth decay , which be one of the big reason for hospitalisation of our child . it be also why we be take action through this strategy to improve access to vaccination and health visit support and to ensure that all of our child have a healthy life . as my hon . Friend say , those problem be profound and need to be tackle . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on baby , the most common refrain I hear be , " bring back sure Start . " I commend my right hon . friend on focus on learn from the past and look to the future , and I thank she for show the good of the Labour party by start to restore the sure Start legacy . many of my constituent and service provider in Ribble Valley tell I that the hard thing about be a parent or support parent be a lack of consistent information and place to go for support . do the Secretary of State agree that it have be deeply confusing over the past few year for those live in the 65 local authority where crucial service and family hub have not be fund , and will the Labour Government end that injustice ? through the measure announce today , my hon . friend ' s local authority will now benefit from funding to make that a reality . she be right to say that even when service be available , it can be confusing for parent to know where to go to access high - quality , trust advice . the digital offer we be develop with NHS colleague will ensure that all parent , regardless of where they be or what their family circumstance be , can access good - quality information alongside that . I welcome that , through Best Start , Central Bedfordshire be get fund for a family hub for the first time . will the Secretary of State explain how this will be link to area of deprivation and urge the independent council to look closely at the statistic that show that place such as Dunstable and Houghton Regis be the area where child do not get the good start in life at the moment ? my hon . friend be right that her local authority will benefit from the funding announce today . it will share in a £ 12 million development grant , and further funding will follow alongside that . we will support the local authority to get up and run and then ensure that it have the service it need . this scheme will have a real focus on disadvantaged child while be available and accessible to all parent . the guidance we be issue to local authority will reflect that . I welcome this Government ' s commitment to early year , because we all know that investment in early year have a profound impact not only on the life of child but on community such as mine in Croydon East . do the Secretary of State agree that the fact that one in three low - income family currently do not have access to a local child ' s centre or family hub should be a great source of shame for the Conservatives ? can she also outline how the measure announce today will help to fix the failure of the previous Government and give all of our child the good start in life ? our announcement today be about make sure that more parent and child be able to access high - quality parenting , healthcare and education service . the half a billion we be invest over the spending review period will allow we to reach half a million more child , include in my hon . friend ' s community and constituency right across the country . as a mother of two , I see the decline in child ' s service under the last government in real time , so I welcome this statement . I particularly welcome identification and intervention for SEND kid . will the Secretary of State say how this announcement change the funding for vital child ' s service in my area ? the measure I have announce mean that local authority that do not currently receive funding , include my hon . friend ' s local authority , will receive funding through a share of a development grant to make sure that they can get up and run from next April . in the autumn we will confirm allocation across all local authority for the next phase . we want to make sure that disadvantaged child and family be able to access service , and we will ensure that local authority have the clear direction to make that a reality . I join other in hugely welcome today ' s announcement . I will get straight on the case and urge Buckinghamshire council to prioritise Aylesbury for a Best Start family hub , give that we have the high level of deprivation in our county . I have be campaign for well understanding of and support for maternal mental health . many new mum tell I that what they really need in their community be somewhere they can go for advice and company . do the Secretary of State agree that this should be of real benefit to parent who be struggle with their mental health ? yes , and I be delighted that my hon . friend ' s local authority and community will benefit from today ' s announcement . she be right that access to mental healthcare for new mum in particular be really important . it can be a very lonely and isolate experience , and be able to chat to other parent and access support in a supportive environment be incredibly important . what we be announce today will support more mother to get that important access to early support and will help to prevent problem from become more serious . a few week ago I visit Leftwich primary school and meet the fantastic headteacher Claire Harrison and her team . the one thing Claire want to get across be how much the job have change over the last decade . the dismantling of early help and prevention service have mean that teacher and headteacher be spend more time essentially be the parent of last resort rather than undertake their core function of educate child . it should not be this way , and we should be clear that dismantle sure Start be an act of utter vandalism by the previous Government . it be fantastic that Cheshire West and Chester council will benefit from the new money for Best Start , build on what sure Start do good , but do the Secretary of State agree that it be ridiculous that Cheshire West be ever put in a position where there be no money to fund these vital service ? my hon . friend ' s local authority will now benefit from this extra funding , and it will make a tremendous difference to child and family across his community . like my hon . friend , I have hear that story from so many school leader , teacher and support staff who go above and beyond to support family who be often face very real challenge and difficulty around homelessness , poverty . we want to make their job easy . that be why we be expand free school meal eligibility , put in place new free breakfast club , cut the cost of school uniform and increase the national minimum wage . those be all measure design to support family , and they will bring big educational benefit too . twelve month ago the Prime Minister give his final speech of the election campaign in Redditch in a Sure Start centre abandon by the last government , in an economically deprive area of my town that be forget by the last government , and in a county that do not receive a single penny of funding for any family hub in 14 year . despite the chuntering from the Conservatives , do the Secretary of State agree that it be action not word that lead to the good future for our child ? I agree with my hon . friend . it be this Labour Government who will once again ensure that all our child be set up to succeed . we will build on the proud legacy of sure Start , take the good evidence of what work , and expand and enhance that for the generation of child to come , in his community and across the country . the postcode in which a person be bear still have a profound impact on the life they lead . that be no more true than in my constituency , where those bear in Hatfield have a healthy life expectancy that be 11 year short than those bear three mile down the road in Brookmans Park . do my right hon . friend agree that it be essential that the new Best Start family hub have integrate care , give advice on early year education as well as health support ? that be critical , which be why we need to bring together healthcare , education , library , childminder and voluntary and community group in that endeavour to ensure that all our child get the good start in life . like my hon . friend , I be determined to ensure that background do not equal success . the drive mission of this Labour Government be to ensure that where you be from and the family you be bear into do not determine what you achieve , and that your hard work , your aspiration and all that you do drive what you can achieve . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . along with 6 . 5 million fellow member , I be a member of the local government pension scheme , through my proud membership of the London Pensions Fund Authority . we be uniquely affect by the Pension Schemes Bill , which we be about to contemplate . I be therefore concerned that it should be a hybrid Bill rather than a public Bill . I seek your guidance , please , as to whether the Bill have be properly certify as a public Bill and whether , in fact , it should be refer to the examiner to decide whether it should go through the hybrid Bill process . if not , and the House decide to proceed today , could the House of Lords independently decide through its examiner whether it be , in fact , a hybrid Bill ? I be grateful to the right hon . member for his point of order and for give notice of it . the Bill be not refer to the examiner at the time of presentation , indicate that the view take by the relevant House authority at the time be that the Bill be not prima facie hybrid . he be welcome to refer to any aspect of part 1 of the Bill during today ' s proceeding . the Chair can not be expect to respond substantively today , but I will ensure that he receive a substantive write response this week . his final point be about proceeding in the House of Lords , which be not a matter for the Chair , or indeed for this House . I ask he not to refer to that matter in his speech . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . member of the House have be visit my constituency . the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) visit on 1 May , and I see social medium post of a raid . the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) visit on 4 July , which again I see in social medium post . I understand that Ilford South be the centre of the universe and that any wannabe political party leader would want to visit , but they have show discourtesy accord to the rule of the House in not inform I . I seek your guidance . I thank the hon . gentleman for notice of his point of order . can I confirm that he have give notice to the right hon . member concern ? they will , no doubt , be aware after this . indicate assent . the booklet on " rule of behaviour and courtesy in the House of Commons " be entirely clear that notice must be give when a Member intend to visit another colleague ' s constituency except for purely private purpose . the hon . Gentleman have indeed put on the record that his constituency be the centre of the universe . Bill Presented Water Regulation Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Tim Farron present a Bill to abolish the Water Services Regulation Authority ; to establish a Clean Water Authority and to make provision about its power and duty ; to make further provision about the regulation of water ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 12 September , and to be print ( Bill 278 ) . pension Schemes Bill Second read [ relevant document : oral evidence take before the Work and Pensions Committee on 14 May , on investment in the UK economy and Pension Schemes Bill , HC 897 ; write evidence to the Work and Pensions Committee , on investment in the UK economy and Pension Schemes Bill , report to the House on 14 May , HC 897 . ] I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . this Bill aim to deliver fundamental reform to our pension landscape , and it be good to see that the prospect of discuss a long , slightly technical pension Bill have see so many member flood into the Chamber . these be reform on which there be a broad consensus across the pension industry . they also build on at least something of a consensus across the House . in its principal focus on high return for pension saver , the Bill also respond to specific responsibility that we hold in the House . it be because of decision of Parliament that something significant have happen over the past decade : british worker have get back into the habit of save for a pension . today , more than 22 million worker be build up a pension pot . that represent a 10 million increase since 2012 , when Parliament introduce the policy of automatically enrol worker . the rise be large for woman and low earner . so there be lot to celebrate as more save , but there be no ground at all for complacency about what they be get in return . the private sector final salary pension that many of today ' s pensioner rely on guarantee a particular income in retirement . if those pension scheme do not deliver good investment return , that be a problem for the employer and not directly for the saver . but most of tomorrow ' s retiree with a define - contribution pension bear all the risk ; there be nothing guarantee . how well the pension scheme that they save into perform matter hugely , and because pension be a very long game , even small difference in how fast a pension pot grow can make a massive difference over time . that be the system that the House have choose , so the onus be on we to ensure that it deliver . but the pension system that we have today be too fragmented , too rarely do it ensure that people ' s saving be work hard enough to support they in retirement , and it be too disconnected from the UK economy . that be the case for change and the context for the Bill . the UK have the second - large pension system in the world , worth £ 2 trillion . it be our large source of domestic capital , underpin not just the retirement we all look forward — or at least most of we look forward to — but the investment on which our future prosperity depend . but our big pension system have far too few big pension scheme . there be approach 1 , 000 define - contribution scheme and less than 10 provider who currently have £ 25 billion or more in asset . a consolidation process be already under way , with the number of DC scheme reduce by about 10 % a year . what the Bill do be add wind to the sail of that consolidation . it implement the conclusion of the pension investment review , create so - call megafund . for the DC market , we intend to use the power provide for in clause 38 to require multi - employer scheme to have at least £ 25 billion in asset by 2030 , or a credible pathway to be there by 2035 . big and well pension fund can deliver low cost , diversify investment and well return for saver . that support the work that the industry be already do to well deliver for saver . as the House have discuss before , in May , 17 major pension provider manage about 90 % of active define - contribution pension sign the Mansion House accord . this industry - lead initiative see signatory pledge to invest 10 % of their main default fund in private asset such as infrastructure by 2030 , with at least 5 % in UK asset . that investment could support a well outcome for pension saver and back clean energy development or fast - grow business . to support this industry - lead change , the Bill include a reserve power that would allow the Government to require large auto - enrolment scheme to invest a set percentage into those wide asset class . that reflect the reality that the industry have be call for the shift for some time , but word have be slow to translate into action . I draw the House ' s attention to the fact that I be a trustee of the parliamentary contributory pension fund . consolidation be absolutely the right direction of travel so that pension fund have well expert who be well able to advise . I still have a slight concern , though , about mandation . there will have to be scheme to invest in , and they will need to ensure that they be get return . how will the Minister ensure that the Bill actively deliver on both side of the equation ? I thank my hon . friend for her question and for her oversight of all our pension , which I think be reassuring . [ laughter . ] sorry ; it be reassuring ! I will come directly to her point , because I know that be one question that hon . member on both side of the House will want to raise . let I just say that the Bill explicitly recognise the fiduciary duty of trustee towards their member . in the last Parliament , a number of we raise concern about the administration of define - benefit scheme by , among other , BP , Shell and Hewlett - Packard . it be obvious at that stage — I think this view be hold by his right hon . friend the Minister for Social Security and Disability , who be then the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee — that one of the root cause of the problem be insufficient independence and oversight by define - benefit pension trustee . what be there in this Bill that will protect the position of pensioner in their retirement under those scheme ? the right hon . Member invite I to skip quite a long way forward in my speech , and it be a long speech . ah . that be not the support I be hope for from the Chair — understandable , but harsh . I will come to some of the point that the right hon . member raise . I think he be refer particularly to pre - 1997 indexation , which I shall come to . as I say , the Bill include a reserve power that will allow the Government to require large auto - enrolment scheme to invest a set percentage into wide asset . that reflect the wide call that have be make for this change but have not lead to its taking place . what pension provider be say be that they face a collective action problem , where employer focus too narrowly on the low charge , not what matter most to saver : the high return . I do not currently intend to use the power in the Bill , but its existence give clarity to the industry that , this time , change will actually come . some argue — I will come to some of the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) — that this somehow undermine the duty that pension provider have to saver . that be simply wrong . first , the Bill include clear safeguard to prioritise saver ' interest and be entirely consistent with the core principle of trustee ' fiduciary duty . clause 38 include an explicit mechanism , which I have discuss with member from the main three party in this House , to allow provider to opt out if comply risk material detriment to saver . secondly — this be the key point that motivate a lot of the Bill — saver be be let down by the status quo . there be a reason major pension scheme across the rest of the world be already invest in this more diverse range of asset . fragmentation within the pension industry happen within provider , not just between they . some insurer have thousand of legacy fund , so clause 41 extend to contract scheme the ability that trust - base scheme already have to address that . provider will be able to transfer saver to another arrangement without proactive individual consent if , and only if , it be independently certify as be in the member ' s good interest . another point that I hope be of common ground across the House be that we need to do more to realise the untapped potential of the local government pension scheme in England and Wales . we need scale to get the most out of the LGPS ' s £ 400 billion - worth of asset . again , the Bill will turn that consensus into concrete action . it provide for LGPS asset spread across 86 administer authority to be fully consolidate into six pool . that will ensure that the asset use to provide pension to its more than 6 million member — predominantly low - pay woman — be manage effectively and at scale . each authority will continue to set its investment strategy , include how much local investment it expect to see . in fact , these reform will build on the LGPS ' s strong track record of invest in local economic growth , require pension pool to work with the like of mayoral combine authority . in time , big and more visible LGPS pool will help to crowd private pension fund and other institutional investor into growth asset across the country . our measure will build scale , support investment and deliver for saver , but the Bill do more to ensure that work people get the maximum bang for every buck save . to reinforce the shift away from an excessively narrow focus on cost , clause 5 provide for a new value - for - money framework . for the first time , we will require pension scheme to prove that they provide value for money , with standardised metric . that will help saver to compare scheme more easily , and drive scheme themselves to focus on the value that they deliver . for persistently poor performer , regulator will have the power to enforce consolidation . that will protect saver from get stick in poorly perform scheme — something that can knock thousand of pound off their pension pot . we be also at last address the small pension pot issue . I be out door - knock in Swansea early this spring , and a woman in her mid - 30 tell I that something be really wind she up — and it be not I knock on the door . [ laughter . ] this be a very unsupportive audience . it be try to keep track of small amount of pension saving that she have from old job ; the only thing that be bad be that her husband keep go on about it . there be now 13 million small pension pot that hold £ 1 , 000 or less float around . another million be be add each year . that increase hassle , which be what she be complain about , with over £ 31 billion - worth of pension pot estimate to currently be lose . it cost the pension industry around £ 240 million each year to administer . clause 20 provide power for those pot to be automatically bring together into one pension scheme that have be certify as deliver good value . anyone who want to can of course opt out , but this change alone could boost the pension pot of an average earner by around £ 1 , 000 . of course , once you have a pension pot , the question be : what do you do with it ? we often talk about pension freedom , but there be nothing liberate about the complexity currently involve in turn a pension pot into a retirement income . you have to consolidate those pot , choose between annuity , lump sum , drawdown or cash out . you have to analyse different provider and countless product . choice can be a good thing , but this overwhelming complexity be not — 77 % of DC saver yet to access their pension have no clear plan about how to do so . I agree with a lot of what the Minister be say . give what be say last week by the Financial Conduct Authority on target support , would he look again at what be be resist by the Money and Pensions Service ? it be not prepared to work with the pension scheme to allow automatic appointment so that pension saver can be guide to well outcome . I realise that MaPS will say that it be too busy , but this be a key moment . if we could get people to engage at age 50 , say , we would see vastly different outcome for they if they invest properly , and in well way , with their pension . I thank the right hon . member for his question , and for the discussion that we have have on this important topic . he spend year work on this . the priority for MaPS right now be to ensure that we have the system set up to deal with the additional call that be likely to come when pension dashboard be roll out , but I will keep in mind the point that he raise . I think he and a number of hon . member write to I about exactly that point . as I promise in my letter , I will keep it under review , but we must not overburden the system , because we need it to be able to deliver when pension dashboard come onstream . will the Minister update we on when consumer will see the introduction of the pension dashboard ? [ laughter . ] I think recent progress on the pension dashboard mean that that deserve a little less laughter . what we be see at the moment be success , drive the first connection to the dashboard . obviously , all scheme and provider be due to be connect by the autumn of 2026 , but I will provide good notice of when we can give a firm date for that . my hon . friend and near neighbour have secure himself early warning of exactly that happen . we need to make the choice clear for people as they move from build retirement saving to use they . the Bill give pension scheme a duty to provide default solution for saver ' retirement income — yes , with clear opt - out . as well as reduce complexity and risk for saver , that will support high return because provider will be able to invest in asset for long if they do not need to secure the possibility of have to provide full drawdown at retirement . each of these measure to drive up return will have an impact on their own , but it be their cumulative impact that matter most , especially when it be compound over the decade that we save for a pension . to give the House a sense of scale , someone on average earning save over their career could see their retirement pot boost by £ 29 , 000 thank to the high return that the Bill support . that be a significant increase for something that should matter to we all . the reform that I have set out will transform the DC pension landscape , but with £ 1 . 2 trillion - worth of asset support around 9 million people , define - benefit scheme remain vital — they have already be raise by the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) . their improved funding position be hugely welcome . around 75 % be now in surplus , which have enable far more scheme to reach buy - out with an insurer . many more intend to do so , welcome the security that buy - out can offer . other may not be able to reach buy - out or may value run on their scheme for at least a time . the Bill provide those trustee with a wide range of option . clause 8 and 9 give more trustee the option to safely share surplus fund , which be something that many can already do . I thank the Minister for give way and the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) for raise this issue . what will the Bill do for my constituent Patricia Kennedy and the member of the Hewlett Packard Pension Association who be ask for more action on their pre - 1997 non - index - link contribution . my hon . friend have raise this issue with I on a number of occasion , and he be a powerful advocate for his constituent who have lose out through the discretionary increase that they be hope to see on their pension not be deliver . this be the same issue that the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland raise . one of the thing that surplus release will allow be that trustee may at that point consider how member can benefit from any release that take place . one thing I would encourage they to prioritise if they be consider a surplus release be the indexation of those that have not receive it on their pre - 1997 accrual . I hope that provide some clarity to the right hon . Gentleman and my hon . friend . I be extremely grateful to the Minister for take my intervention and for the very helpful letter he send I on 30 June about scheme of this sort , and in particular the ExxonMobil pension scheme . his letter encouragingly state : " follow our reform , trustee will continue to consider the correct balance of interest between member and the sponsor employer when make decision about the release of surplus fund . trustee will be responsible for determine how member may benefit from any release of surplus … and have a suite of option to choose from — for example , through discretionary benefit increase . " the trouble be that these pensioner have receive a letter from the trustee of the ExxonMobil pension fund state : " the power to award discretionary increase be hold by Esso Petroleum Company Limited ( the " Company " ) . whether or not any discretionary increase be provide be for the Company to determine : the Trustee have no power to award discretionary increase itself . " this may be a loophole that the Minister need to address . if the trustee can not award the surplus as benefit and the company say no , that be not go to benefit my constituent . I thank the right hon . member for raise that specific case . I will look at it in more detail for he as he have kindly raise it here , but he have raise a point that will have more general application , which be that lot of different scheme , particularly DB scheme , will have a wide range of scheme rule . he have raise one of those , which be about discretionary increase . one thing that be consistent across all the scheme , with the legislation we be bring in today , be that trustee must agree for any surplus to be release . it may be the case that the employer , in the detail of those scheme rule , be require to agree to a discretionary increase , but the trustee be perfectly within their right to request that that be part of an agreement that lead to a surplus release . what if it be the other way round ? in any circumstance , the trustee would need to agree to a surplus release , so they be welcome to say to their employer : we be only go to agree to it on the basis of a change to something that the employer hold the card over . I be happy to discuss that with the right hon . member far , and there may be other scheme that be in a similar situation . the way in which the Minister be talk about insurance buy - out suggest that , in the Government ' s mind , insurance buy - out be still in some way a gold standard . can he reassure the House that he be seek to flatten the playing field , such that the increase choice available to define - benefit pension scheme will mean that for perpetual who run on — such as OMERS , which start off as the Ontario municipal employee retirement system and be now worth 140 billion canadian dollar — there be as much safety in superfund as there be in insurance buy - out ? I shall come on directly to the question of superfund , which I know the hon . Member have a long - stand interest in . there be obviously a distinction between closed and open define - benefit scheme , which I think be relevant to the point he be raise . it be also important for trustee to have a range of option . obviously that can happen only where there be surplus fund , and there may not be surplus fund in all circumstance . I just want to give the Minister a head - up in relation to the question about employee benefit . it would be useful in Committee to have more information about the Government ' s analysis of how many of these surplus release will directly benefit the employee rather than the employer . I understand that the Government , with their mission for growth , want investment in grow the company as well , but what kind of split do he expect to see ? I do not expect an answer to that today . it be nice to sometimes be able to surprise on the upside . I would expect employee to benefit in most case , because trustee be in the drive seat and I be sure they will want to consider how employer and employee will benefit from any surplus release . obviously , the exact split between the two will be a matter for the individual case , but I be sure we will discuss that far in Committee . I want to reassure the House that this be not about a return to the 1990 free - for - all . DB regulation have be transform since then , and scheme will have to remain well fund and trustee will remain in the drive seat . they will agree to a release only where it be in member ' interest and , as I say , not all scheme be able to afford to buy out member ' pension with insurer . the Bill also introduce the long - await permanent legislative regime for DB superfund , which be an alternative mean to consolidate legacy DB liability . this support employer who want to focus on their core business , and , as the superfund grow , they will have the potential to use their scale to invest in more productive way . crucially , trustee will be able to agree to a transfer into a superfund only where buy - out be not available and where it increase saver ' security . the Pension Protection Fund be , of course , the security backstop for DB member . it celebrate its 20th anniversary this year , and it now secure the pension of over 290 , 000 people . the Bill update its work in three important way : first , by lift restriction on the PPF board so that it can reduce its levy where appropriate , freeing scheme and employer to invest ; secondly , by ensure that PPF and financial assistance scheme information will be display on the pension dashboard as it come onstream , which my hon . friend the Member for Blaenau Gwent and Rhymney ( Nick Smith ) , who be now not in his place , be keen to see ; and thirdly and most importantly , by make a change to support people go through the tough of time . as several hon . member have call for , we be extend the definition of terminal illness from a 6 - month to a 12 - month prognosis , provide early access to compensation for those who need it most . pension be complex beast , and so be the law that surround they . that complexity be inevitable , but not to the extent that some recent court case risk create . the Bill also legislate to provide clarity that decision of the Pensions Ombudsman in overpayment case may be enforce without go to a further court . I have be clear that the Government will also look to introduce legislation to give affect pension scheme the ability to retrospectively obtain write actuarial confirmation that historical benefit change meet the necessary standard at the time . government be like people in one important respect : they can easily put off think about pension until it be too late . I be determined not to do that . we be ramp up the pace of pension reform . the past two decade have deliver a big win , with more people save for their retirement , but that be only ever half the job . today , too many be on course for an income in retirement that be less than they deserve and less than they expect . the Bill focus on secure high return for saver and support high income in retirement without ask any more than be necessary of worker ' living standard in the here and now . the Bill sit within wide pension reform as we seek to build not just saving pot but a pension system that deliver comfortable retirement and underpin the country ' s future prosperity . legislation for multi - employer collective define - contribution scheme will be introduce as soon as possible after the summer recess , and we will shortly launch the next phase of our pension review to complete the job of build a pension system that be strong , fair and sustainable . it be time to make sure that pension saving work as hard for all our constituent as our constituent work to earn they . I commend the Bill to the House . it be a great pleasure to be here with you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I welcome the Minister to his place . he have be here a couple of day over a year and be already take an important Bill through Parliament . it be good to see he , and I very much look forward to work constructively with he as the Bill progress through the House . while the Bill be not perfect , the Minister will be pleased to hear that there be cross - party consensus on many of the plan change . that be because we all want our pension system to be work well . if we rewind back to 2010 , we inherit from Labour — dare I say it — a private pension system that be not quite ideal . the move from a define - benefit pension - dominate market to a define - contribution system have leave million of people behind . back in 2011 , only 42 % of people be save for a workplace pension . the cornerstone of change be auto - enrolment , which have be an overwhelming success , as I be sure the Minister will agree . now around 88 % of eligible employee be save into a pension , and the remain 10 % who opt out tend to do so because of sound investment advice . the Conservatives be proud of our rock - solid support in government for our pensioner . the triple lock ensure that we lift 200 , 000 pensioner out of absolute poverty over the course of the last government . worker deserve dignity in retirement , not just a safety net in old age . they deserve to look forward to their later year with hope , not anxiety , and with choice , not constraint . that be why before the last election , the previous Government have turn their attention to two central issue : first , get the good value for money out of our pension scheme and , secondly , pension adequacy . I will come to pension adequacy later , but let I start by recognise some of the positive measure contain in the Bill to make our pension fund work well for saver . when Labour get pension policy right , it be often by build on the conservative legacy , recognise what work and seek to extend it . that be why we broadly support the measure in the Bill that seek to consolidate and strengthen the gain of auto - enrolment . we also welcome the continue progress towards the pension dashboard , which will revolutionise the way people access their pension information and plan for their financial future . for too long , the complexity and fragmentation of pension pot have leave saver confused and disengage , as we have hear . if you be anything like I , Madam Deputy Speaker , and be think more actively , dare I say it , about your retirement income — actually not like I ; you be a lot young . [ interruption . ] Mr Speaker be like I ; he be think about his pension . he will have spend countless hour try to track down old pension . the dashboard , however , will put power back into the hand of saver , and we will support measure in the Bill to improve its implementation and delivery . I want to highlight the creation of large megafund in both the public and private sector , as well as the consolidation of the local government pension scheme , as sensible and pragmatic step . the lgps be one of the large pension scheme in the UK , as we have hear . it have 6 . 7 million member with a capital of £ 391 billion , yet it be highly fragmented into 86 locally administer authority . there be a great deal of divergence in the funding position of those council , even among geographic neighbour . they range from Kensington and Chelsea , which have a scheme funding level of 207 % , to neighbour local authority like Waltham Forest , Brent , and Havering , which be underfunde in the 2022 triennial review . while we support the concept of these megafund , there be legitimate question that I hope the Minister will address in Committee . we do not want to see constituent from one council area unwittingly funding shortfall from neighbouring area . like many people in this House , I first cut my tooth in politic as a councillor . soon after be elect , I be appoint chairman of the finance committee on Forest of Dean district council . one of our task be to oversee the performance of our local pension fund . let I assure the House : the Forest of Dean be a truly wonderful place , but it be not the City of London . our finance committee be make up of dedicated local councillor , but when it come to scrutinise the pension fund , we be — to put it kindly — out of our depth . meanwhile , the pension fund manager , with their pack diary and weary expression , seem to treat a trip to rural Gloucestershire as a rare expedition to the outer reach of the Earth . one thing strike I about small local government pension fund : they simply do not work . but it be not just in local government , small fund be — albeit with some notable exception for bespoke fund — not fit for purpose in a global investment environment , as we hear from the Minister . the creation of large fund will enable great scale , well investment efficiency and , ultimately , well value for money for member . it will allow our pension fund to compete on the world stage , to invest more in UK infrastructure and to deliver high return for british saver . there be other area of the Bill that we support and welcome . the consolidation of small , fragmented pension pot be a long - overdue reform . bring those together will reduce administrative cost and prevent the erosion of saving through unnecessary fee . the introduction of a value - for - money framework be essential to ensure that saver be get the good possible deal , not just on charge , but on investment performance and retirement outcome . we also welcome the development of guide retirement product . we can not simply leave saver on their own to navigate complex choice at retirement . change to provide great support for those face terminal illness will provide comfort to those in extremely challenging circumstance . these be all positive step , and we will work constructively with the Government to ensure they be deliver effectively . while there be much to welcome , there be also significant area where the Bill fall short and area that require attention if we be to deliver a pension system that be truly fit for the future . most fundamentally , the Bill do not address pension adequacy . the uncomfortable truth be that million of people in this country be simply not save enough for their retirement . the amount people be save , even with auto - enrolment , be too low to deliver a decent standard of live in old age . research by Pensions UK show that more than 50 % of saver will fail to meet the retirement income target set by the 2005 pension commission . close the gap between what people be save and what they will need must be the press concern of this Government . we urgently need the second part of the pension review to be fast - track , with a laser - like focus on pension adequacy . we need a bold , ambitious plan to ensure that every worker in this country can look forward to a retirement free from poverty and insecurity . the hon . Gentleman be not wrong on this point . in fact , the Public Accounts Committee look a number of year ago at enrolment in pension scheme and find that a lot of young people be not enrol because of the cost of living , which his government have to take responsibility for . there be no easy answer to this , but I would be interested to know if the conservative party now have policy to resolve this problem . it be an important question , and one that I will come to in due course . watch this space for a fascinating manifesto in the run - up to the next general election — I be sure everybody look forward to it . far to the point make by the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) , in every election we all say that we cherish the triple lock , and we seek to gain electoral advantage from it , but do we not need to come to a settle collective view in society about the combination of the triple lock and the inadequacy of auto - enrolment ? the 8 % contribution be not enough , as the hon . Gentleman say ; we need to get to australian level . one speak to the other . unless we can take a holistic view of those two element and the third pillar , we be not be truly honest about some of the trade - off , give that we be deal with £ 70 billion of tax relief at the moment . the former City Minister raise a good and important point . he try to bring together a number of related but quite disparate issue that we need to think carefully about . I would not want to make conservative party policy on the hoof at the Dispatch Box , though the Minister urge I to do so . these be important point , and I think my right hon . friend would understand that I would not want to rush into anything without careful , consider thought . these be issue on which he and I — and the Minister , of course — might get together . as I say , we need a bold , ambitious plan to ensure that every worker in this country can look forward to a retirement free from poverty and insecurity . that mean look again at contribution rate , the role of employer and how we support those who be exclude from the system . another omission in the Bill be the failure to extend the benefit of auto - enrolment to the self - employ . there be over 4 million self - employ people in the UK — people who be drive our economy , create job and take risk . too many of they face the prospect of old age in poverty , with little or no private pension provision . research by the Institute for Fiscal Studies find that only 20 % of self - employ worker earn over £ 10 , 000 a year save into a private pension . with the self - employ sector continue to grow , the Bill miss an opportunity to come up with innovative solution for this underserved group in the workplace . on auto - enrolment , the other miss group be those aged under 22 . auto - enrolment seem to be set up with the view that people would go to university before enter the job market , but that be not the case for many people . it be possible that start auto - enrolment early would mean much more adequate pension pot for people , because the early they save , the big their pot grow by the time they reach retirement . the hon . Member make an important point . the early people start put money in , the well . as a result of compound interest , over many year they will end up with a big pension pot , even if at the beginning the contribution be quite small ; the amount aggregate over a long period . we will discuss that in Committee . we be concerned about the lack of detail in the Bill . too much be leave to the discretion of regulator and to secondary legislation . Parliament deserve to have proper oversight of these reform . from my discussion with the industry , it seem there be tentative support for many of the reform in the Bill . however , the message that keep come back be that the devil will be in the detail , so I hope that as this Bill make progress through the House , the Minister will be able to fill in more of the blank — and I be sure he will ; he be a diligent individual . I move on to the most important thing that this Bill hope to achieve : growth . we want to support Labour Members on the growth agenda , but too often they go about it in slightly the wrong way . surplus in define - benefit pension scheme be a great example . interest rate have rise post - covid , and that have push many scheme into surplus . in principle , we support great flexibility when it come to the extraction of these surplus , but there need to be robust safeguard ; that be certainly the message come back from the industry . under the legislation , there be nothing to stop these surplus be use for share buy - back or dividend payment from the host employer , for instance . neither of these outcome necessarily help the Government ' s growth agenda . we would welcome a strengthening of the Bill to prevent trustee from face undue pressure from host employer to release fund for non - growth purpose . in addition , to provide stability , the Government should carefully consider whether low dependency , rather than buy - out level , will future - proof the fund , so that they do not fall back into deficit . although the Government be keen to extract surplus from the private sector , there be not the same gusto show in the Bill when it come to local government pension . the House have discuss in detail the Chancellor ' s fiscal rule , not least early today . under the revise rule introduce by the Chancellor , the measure of public debt have shift from public sector net debt to public sector net financial liability . as a consequence , the local government pension scheme ' s record £ 45 billion surplus be now count as an asset that offset Government debt . this give the Chancellor great headroom to meet her fiscal target — headroom that , dare I say it , be shrink week by week . I do not wish to sound cynical , but perhaps that be the reason why the Bill be largely silent on well use these surplus . this may be a convenient accounting trick for the Chancellor , but the surplus could have be use , for instance , to give council pension scheme payment holiday . the Government could make it easy to follow the example set by Kensington and Chelsea , which have suspend employer pension contribution for a year to fund support to victim and survivor of the 2017 Grenfell Tower tragedy . these revenue windfall could be redirect towards a range of initiative , from local growth opportunity such as business incubator to improve our high street . we could even leave more money in council tax payer ' pocket . I turn to the part of the Bill on which we have our most fundamental disagreement : the provision on mandation . the Bill reserve the power to mandate pension fund to invest in Government priority . that not only go against trustee ' fiduciary duty — although I appreciate and recognise the point the Minister make early — but mean potentially bad outcome for saver . pension be not just number on a spreadsheet ; they represent a lifetime of work , sacrifice , and hope for a secure future . the people who manage these fund and their trustee be under a legal duty to prioritise the financial wellbeing of saver . their job be not to obey political whim , but to invest prudently , grow pension pot and uphold the trust place in they by million of ordinary people . that fiduciary duty be not a technicality ; it be the bedrock of confidence that the entire pension system rest on . these pension fund manager find the safe and good investment for our pension , no matter where in the world they might be . if thing go wrong , we can hold they to account . but if this reserve power become law , we have to ask the question : if investment go wrong , who carry the can ? will it be the pension fund manager and the trustee , or the Government , who do the mandation ? likewise , while the reserve power in the Bill focus on the define - contribution market , the shift in emphasis have potentially profound impact across the sector . UK pension fund , along with insurance company , hold approximately 30 % of the UK Government ' s debt or gilt market . if mature define - benefit scheme move from the gilt market to equity , that potentially have a profound impact on the Government ' s debt management , or ability to manage debt , and therefore interest rate and mortgage rate . for that reason , we would welcome the Minister confirm whether any concern have be raise by the Debt Management Office , and possibly the Bank of England . there be widespread opposition from across the industry to this power — I be approach the end of my speech , you will be pleased to hear , Madam Deputy Speaker . there be well way for the Government to deliver growth , such as change obsolete rule and remove restriction . in the annuity market , solvency rule prevent insurer from own equity in productive UK asset . wind farm , for example , deliver stable return through contract for difference and contribute to the Government ' s green agenda . they could be an ideal match for long - term annuity investment , while also deliver clean energy . release the limit on the ability of insurer to fully deploy annuity capital have the potential to unlock as much as £ 700 billion by 2035 , accord to research by Aviva . rather than impose top - down mandate , we want the Government to maximise growth opportunity from our pension industry by turn over every stone and seek out the unintended consequence of old regulation , not impose new one . I will conclude , Madam Deputy Speaker , as you will be delighted to hear . [ interruption . ] yes , I have take a lot of intervention . we reaffirm our commitment to work constructively with the Government . stability in the market be of paramount importance , and we recognise the need for a collaborative approach as the Bill progress through the House . we will bring forward amendment where we believe improvement can be make , and we will engage in good faith with Ministers and official to get the detail right . we want to go with , not against , the grain of what the Government be seek to achieve through this Bill , and I look forward to work with the Minister in the week and month ahead . I call Chair of the Select Committee , Debbie Abrahams , after whom I will call Steve Darling . I want to make three point . first , we recognise that define - contribution pension scheme have around £ 500 billion in asset under management . around 20 % of these asset be invest in the UK . that be down from 50 % some 10 year ago . it be very welcome that the Government be focus on this , so that we can ensure that these asset contribute to our growth . the Committee receive evidence in May from the Finance Innovation Lab , which tell we that the UK have have the low level of business investment in the G7 for 24 of the last 30 year . the fundamental driver behind that be the fact that the financial system , include pension fund , do not support business investment as much as it should . that again emphasise the point that the Bill be very welcome . it should help we deal with that , particularly as it require multi - employer DC scheme to have £ 25 billion in asset under management by 2030 . that will give more scheme the advantage of economy of scale . in a very welcome step , in the May 2025 Mansion House accord — I pay tribute to the Chancellor and her team for achieve this — there be a pledge from the 17 scheme that be part of that accord to invest 10 % of their portfolio in asset that will boost the economy by 2030 , with at least 5 % of these portfolio be ring - fence for the UK . this be expect to release £ 25 billion to the UK economy by 2030 . none the less , the Bill include a reserve power that the Government could use to mandate DC scheme to invest more in the UK economy . in evidence on 14 July , the Committee hear concern that that would interfere with the fiduciary duty of trustee to prioritise investment that they judge will bring the good return for scheme member . in May , Yvonne Braun of the ABI tell the Committee that it do not think the mandation be " desirable " . instead , she say that the aim should be for it to be " a rational choice — that the UK be an attractive environment for investing " . the pension industry want the Government to concentrate on enable the development of suitable asset for scheme to invest in , for example by improve the planning process and make the regulatory environment more predictable . Rachel Croft , of the Association of Professional Pension Trustees , say : " force we to invest solely in the UK may run counter to that primary duty and focus , unless there be a pipeline of suitable investment in a format suitable for pension scheme to invest in . if that be the case , we will invest in they ; if not , our primary duty will make we look elsewhere . " Chris Curry , of the Pensions Policy Institute , think that it be possible to create more UK investment opportunity and benefit member . he say : " it still have to work in the interest of member — that be important — but if we be remove the barrier and make it easy to invest , and at the same time , provide more of a pipeline for investment and try to package it so that it work well with how the pension system can operate , you be create opportunity . " he describe mandation as " blunt " and " inflexible " , and say that it would be difficult to design a scheme that work effectively in practice and do not give rise to unintended consequence . for example , he say that there would be a challenge in define what count as a UK investment . if the Government decide to mandate that scheme invest a particular percentage in the UK , how would the system respond to market movement that might temporarily reduce the percentage below that level ? he want the Government to consider the unintended consequence of that . the liability - drive episode in September 2022 show the potential risk of a lot of pension scheme effectively be ask to do the same thing at the same time . the Bill include a sunset clause prevent the use of the mandation power beyond 2035 . Pensions UK want to see that timeframe reduce , say it should be just for the lifetime of the Parliament . it also want to see the scope limited , so the investment mandation can not be prescribe beyond the allocation voluntarily commit to in the Mansion House accord , in other word the 10 % of default fund into private market , of which 5 % be in UK - base asset . on fiduciary duty , Jesse Griffiths of the Finance Innovation Lab say that " while the fiduciary duty should be paramount for the scheme , the Government have a different and broad mandate , and it need to look at the collective interest of all pension saver as a whole … in particular , when you think about the deep inequality that be embed in the system , the ONS estimate that the bottom half of the population hold just 1 % of all pension asset and the top 10 % hold almost two third . if you just focus on grow the financial return , most people will not benefit from that . I would argue that a system that also support a strong economy and the green transition would benefit most people more than a system that be focus on high return . " will the Minister help we to understand the context for the criterion in which mandation power might be use ? what will be the success criterion , other than the 5 % investment from this approach ? should the sunset clause , to prevent the use of this mandation power beyond 2035 , be bring forward to the end of this Parliament , as I mention ? do the Government guarantee that mandation should go no far than the aim of the Mansion House accord ? I share some of my hon . friend ' s concern about mandation . I be happy that the Minister seem to be listen , and I hope that we will get some answer . I be interested in my hon . friend ' s thought about pull forward the sunset clause . if these change take place , they will have to happen over a long period of time , as trustee can not just flip in and out of investment . she have set out the view of her witness , but do she have any view on pull that date forward from 2035 ? I can see there be argument both way , but I be concerned that that might push trustee to make bad decision . I understand what my hon . Friend say . there be always a balance to be find with long - term financial decision , but this be partly a political decision , so I point to the Pensions Minister to come up with a response . do the Government propose to consult on the design of the mandation power and how to mitigate against unintended consequence ? do the Government think that there be a case for change the law on fiduciary duty to make clear that trustee can take account of wide issue , such as the impact of pension scheme investment on the economy and the environment ? what would be the pro and con of do that ? briefly , I would like to touch on the lgps . I slightly disagree with some of the shadow Pensions Minister ' s point . since 2015 , the 86 fund have be form into eight group . if the Pensions Minister be propose to reduce that still far , will he set out the reason behind that ? what be the problem that merge they even far be try to fix ? will he let I know about that in his closing remark ? finally , I would like to touch on the pre - 1997 indexation , as the Pensions Minister know that I would . at the end of March 2024 , the Pension Protection Fund have a surplus of £ 13 . 2 billion . the PPF have take step to reduce the levy from £ 620 million in 2020 to £ 100 million in 2025 . however , under current rule , if it make the decision to reduce the levy to zero , it would then be unable to increase it again . the 2022 departmental review by the Department for Work and Pensions recommend that the PPF and the DWP work together to introduce change to the levy , so that the PPF would have more flexibility in reduce and increase the levy level . there be another issue , which the Pensions Minister will know about . PPF and financial assistance scheme member , particularly those in their later year , be really struggle . I come across a piece — I think it be in the Daily Telegraph — that say that one of the key supporter of the Pension Action Group and a FAS member , Jacquie Humphrey die a few day ago , just 11 week after the death of her husband . they be both employ by dexion , which fold , and , like hundred of other , refuse to leave it there . be there any comfort that we can provide ? I understand and recognise what the Minister say about the PPF surplus be on the public sector ' s balance sheet , but give that these people , who be in their 70 and 80 , be unable to live in dignity , what can we do to provide that for they in their later year ? Jennie seem to have capture the mood of the House , but I call the spokesperson for the Liberal Democrat party . as the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , I will not disappoint the Minister : I assure he that broadly agree with an awful lot in the Bill . however , as we touch on in our meeting early today , there be some area where we have concern that be similar to those express by the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Wyre Forest ( Mark Garnier ) , in more way than one . as Liberal Democrats , we want individual to have confidence and be give the ability to invest in pension scheme that they know all about . we also want business to be support to get their pension out , support their employee . element of the Bill be about re - engineering to drive well outcome for those who have pension , which be to be very much welcome , and about investment . we want to ensure that the individual be front and centre of that support . as other have say , we know that there be 12 million people who be not save enough . in my own constituency of Torbay , some people have challenge just to get enough money to put bread on the table and cover their bill , and to save for a pension be beyond their wild dream . reflect on how we can drive that agenda of support people to make those change around how they can save be absolutely essential . my father be a haulage contractor — more commonly , a lorry driver — and self - employ . he see the poverty that his father live in , and in the 1980 he choose to save for a private pension , as Mrs Thatcher suggest . he put probably more than half of his income at time into saving , but because he be poorly advise , the stock market crash and he be leave with less money than he put in . that be horrific for he . fortunately , the system be now more protective of people who put into pension , but that be a cautionary tale of what can go wrong . ensure that we support those individual be absolutely essential . as Liberal Democrats , we really welcome the development of large pot , which will hopefully drive well outcome for individual . we know that in our more complex world of employment , many people will have small pot . while we welcome the idea of draw these together in certain pot , we be not convince that the pot should follow the pensioner rather than have certain pot that the Government would manage , but that be to be discuss elsewhere as part of the proposal before we . the final area I will explore be invest in our economy , because growth be clearly absolutely essential . if our pension industry can be part of what oil the wheel of growth , that be to be welcome . as Liberal Democrats , ensure that we drive the social rent housing that be desperately need and our high street and see if those can be area that benefit from investment be absolutely essential . however , we have concern around mandation — colleague have already raise this point , and I agree with they . the Minister have say positive thing around mandation , and we look forward to unpick that in Committee with he , but we believe that part of that be about ensure transparency . as Liberal Democrats , we would like to ensure that there be clear evidence of how pension be help we to prepare for and tackle climate change in a positive way . as Liberal Democrats , we want to ensure that the pensioner themselves be front and centre . we welcome the reorganisation , but drive that positive growth in our economy be absolutely essential as part of these proposal . we look forward to work with the Minister and his colleague in get this positive legislation through . I be delighted to speak in this debate . in a former life , I be a trustee of a pension scheme and sit on its investment sub - committee . in my new incarnation , I be the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on pension and growth . pension sound boring to many , and they sound far away to the young . it might be easy to engage people if we talk about income in retirement . People be not save enough ; it be typically hard to think about , and it be a scenario that could be 30 year away for some . Albert Einstein say : " compound interest be the eighth wonder of the world . he who understand it , earn it ; he who doesn ' t , pay it . " pay into a pension pot from an early age exponentially increase the pension pot . that be one of the reason why I be passionate about people understand pension — or , rather , their retirement income — and what we can do as a Government to boost they . the soon we start , the wealthy we can all be in retirement . the Pension Schemes Bill aim to strengthen pension investment by support around 20 million people who could benefit from the reform through well outcome and great value in private sector pension scheme , increase the amount available to they . I support the aim of the Bill to enable the reform of investment management in the local government pension scheme in England and Wales . the aim of these reform be to ensure that the management of LGPS investment deliver the full benefit of scale , include great expertise , well value for money and improved resilience . one of the key engine of growth will be unlock the potential in our local authority pension fund to direct investment towards the UK and , in particular , local regional development . it be vital that investment reach beyond those area that fall under mayoral control . I therefore encourage the Minister , in take the Bill forward , to foster emerge idea on how local authority pension pool can help to review potential local investment opportunity to achieve the good outcome . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . she have convene a very powerful group — indeed , the former City Minister play an active part in its most recent meeting . do she agree that this Bill be particularly important for our high street and many other entrepreneur in our local community , to try to find new form of investment to help they boost business ? I thank my hon . friend for that contribution . it be absolutely essential that we ensure that investment be get to our high street and town , not just our city , and that people see that change when they walk around . I urge the Minister to take a supportive approach towards pool that be currently in transition , since they can not necessarily reallocate asset while they be not member of the new pool that they be go to join . their investment strategy be therefore effectively on hold until they join the new pool . I also ask he to liaise closely with colleague in the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government during the process of local government reorganisation . whatever the new framework be for local government in Staffordshire , the pension fund will still be there . local authority worker in my Tamworth constituency be part of the Staffordshire lgps . it be one of eight authority that be jointly own LGPS Central , which last year report £ 29 . 9 billion in asset under management . the sheer scale of such fund be what underline the link between pension and growth . the british growth partnership , announce in October 2024 by the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Secretary of State for Business and Trade , sit alongside the British Business Bank , and its primary goal be to stimulate investment from UK pension fund into high - growth , innovative company , thereby support the UK economy and create new job . the partnership aim to raise hundred of million of pound from institutional investor , include pension fund , to invest in UK venture capital . that will be support by a cornerstone investment from the Government . investment will be make on a long - term , fully commercial basis , independent of Government influence , leverage the expertise and market access of the British Business Bank to identify potential company . that will offer pension fund fruitful investment opportunity that deliver for their member as well as for the british economy . by unlock domestic investment , the partnership seek to enhance the UK ' s competitiveness in future industry , particularly in the technology and innovation sector . I be fortunate that in my constituency I have an innovative technology company call PI - KEM , which have grow its business and workforce over the past 34 year . by link pension fund to growth , it will be possible to have more such company create opportunity for skilled employment that see Britain at the forefront of market . however , there be one area of caution : a trend towards Government finance be pool into fund of which there be limited parliamentary oversight . while I understand and recognise the power of the large funding pool , I must raise my concern over how the fund will be report on and how we will ensure that both taxpayer and pension member money be stewarde appropriately through the british growth partnership . as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on pension and growth , it have be a great pleasure to meet with colleague and hear from a variety of industry sector about where they see the strength and challenge in these proposal . I take this opportunity to thank the Minister for agree to attend a meeting of the APPG to assist we in gain a great understanding of the approach that he be take in the next stage of the discussion of the Bill . I also take this opportunity to invite colleague to come along and join we on Wednesday . chapter 2 in part 1 of the Bill reform the regime govern trustee payment of surplus to employer and enable surplus to be pay out of more define - benefit scheme . it be state that trustee oversight and the regulatory framework will ensure the responsible and secure sharing of surplus fund . the triennial revaluation of a scheme may determine that there be a deficit or a surplus , but despite be calculate by highly skilled actuary , both be only a snapshot in time . for example , a scheme be evaluate this spring would have reflect the moment at which the US President ' s decision to introduce tariff hit asset price . an alternative set of circumstance could have create an apparent surplus . I have be through this process as a trustee , and I have put on record — and must put on record again — my scepticism about whether the potential figure be the true one when it come to the surplus . I ask the Minister to reassure my constituent , and pension scheme member in general , that he recognise that the interest of scheme member must always be the priority . it would also be welcome to understand how " surplus " be to be define and calculate , as I have receive at least four different version by canvass the pension industry . in chapter 4 of part 2 , provision be make for provider of automatic enrolment and pension scheme regulate by the Financial Conduct Authority to change the way in which a pension pot be invest , to transfer a pot to a different pension scheme with the same provider , or to transfer a pot to another provider without individual member consent where it would be in the good interest of member , take as a whole . I welcome the fact that the Bill state that a range of safeguard and procedure must be follow before an override or transfer can occur , as sadly , it be often difficult to engage member in the detail of their pension . that be particularly true where a number of small pot be accrue early in a work life , which have become the norm in many community with the rise of insecure work . as such , I also welcome the effort that this Government be make to create fair and secure work , because when that be couple with a well - fund pension , work people be protect not just at work but when they sit on their retirement beach , think about how their working career contribute to that welcome rest . will the Minister ensure that the safeguard be clear and give real prominence in discussion ? there be a real need for such fallback power , but there also need to be a positive narrative about encourage engagement . chapter 1 of part 2 confer power on the Secretary of State to make regulation to evaluate and promote the provision of value for money by pension scheme . it will enable define - contribution occupational scheme to be compare base on the value they provide , rather than just their cost . there be an argument that too high a focus on cost — management fee , for example — have have a detrimental effect on investment by pension fund . this stem from an approach that say that if the employer choose a fund simply base on cost , the fund may look to minimise that cost , and may achieve that through the tracker fund that have come to characterise much of the market . that be potentially why little investment have occur in the UK so far . therefore , by push forward on the value for money agenda , the Minister can encourage more investment in the UK , strengthen competition in the sector , and ultimately offer well return to member . chapter 3 of part 2 will require multi - employer DC pension scheme to participate in a default fund of at least £ 25 billion if they be to be use for automatic enrolment purpose . the aim be to encourage small fund to merge into large one that be more likely to invest in the productive finance of the UK . I suggest to the Minister that there be two issue here , the first of which relate to the market for asset . in any market , the price of a good rise if there be a shortage of that good . in this instance , the Government be be innovative and ask the pension industry to invest in productive asset , which can include infrastructure and regeneration scheme that be vital to the place where people live . it be therefore vital that we balance the pace and scale of the development of new profitable investment opportunity with the use of any regulation to push investor in a particular direction . to use an analogy , the Tamworth be a rare breed of pig . unless an appropriate opportunity be available to expand supply first , any ministerial direction to buy stock of the Tamworth pig would just result in a spike in its price and poor return for investor . my hon . friend be make a wonderful speech . may I also say that there be a wonderful pig from Berkshire as well , which have distinctive marking ? however , move away from animal , perhaps my hon . friend wish to say a little more about the success of the type of legislation she describe in Canada and Australia . it have deliver real value in those country ' economy and real value for pension saver . absolutely . there have be some really interesting change arise from those country ' review of their pension market , and I will be very interested to hear what the Minister have to say about what he have learn from those change . certainly , in the meeting that we have attend , we have learn a lot about some of the various initiative that be drive real growth and real change in those country . I urge the Minister to focus on the process of expand the pipeline of suitable project , while build on the Chancellor ' s success — and , I be sure , his own — in create a voluntary framework for industry and Government through the Mansion House accord . my hon . friend have refer to good opportunity . I think it be Islington council ' s pension scheme that invest in social housing in its area . that give a good return because , by and large , people pay their rent — it be a steady return over a long period of time . give the desperate need for housing in this country , do my hon . friend agree that that would be a real opportunity for these fund as they get big ? I absolutely agree . it be incredibly important that we make sure those investment be be drive towards the thing that be go to change life , and building house will change life . the other thing that my hon . friend will be very aware of be the fact that the state pension be calculate on the basis that people be go to own a house in retirement . as we know , we be head to a point at which many people will not own a home and their income in retirement may therefore not be enough , so we need to be alive to that situation . in conclusion , this Bill offer a great deal to my constituent , with the prospect of well pension through invest for the future so that living standard be high . for young generation , there be a real need for investment now in the long - term future of the british economy , so that they can eventually retire with an appropriate income to sustain they . there be also a need to channel that investment beyond our major city and mayoral authority to our shire district , in order to deliver the change that lie at the heart of this Government ' s mandate , and the Bill offer an opportunity to do that . I believe that it offer lot of positive opportunity , but as always there will be challenge . like a good pension fund trustee , I ask the Minister to take the Bill forward with a listening ear as he seek to link pension and growth for the long - term benefit of we all . I congratulate the hon . member for Tamworth ( Sarah Edwards ) on her speech . I be afraid , however , that you , Madam Deputy Speaker , will have to forgive I for puncture the air of bonhomie and positivity about the Bill , because I be really not content with it . frankly , I feel it be my duty as an Opposition back Bencher to be suspicious of consensus , particularly when the City of London be conspire with a Labour Government to muck about with our pension . we have see that before . I be old enough to remember Gordon Brown ' s so - call reform in 1997 , which strike a hammer blow to the british people ' s pension fund . you will remember , Madam Deputy Speaker , that the late , great Frank Field — who be then the Pensions Minister — later call those change a spectacular mistake that strike a hammer blow to the solvency of british pension fund and drive a dagger deep into the heart of the define - benefit landscape , result in its extinction . as such , I be afraid that must rise to raise some very significant reservation about this bit of legislation — and not just its technical execution , but the political instinct that it betray . while the Bill be wrap in the warm word of reform and modernisation , what it actually do be centralise control , unsettle previously settle right , and risk disenfranchise precisely those people whom it purport to help . to begin with the Bill ' s technical aspect , I reiterate my point of order . I be a member of the local government pension scheme through my membership of the London Pension Funds Authority , and I be uniquely affect by this legislation , as be 6 . 5 million other former and current public sector worker . my view be that , under this Bill , those people ' s right be be deny , and that through the hybrid legislation process , they or their representative should have the right to petition the Bill Committee and explain why they feel they be affect by investment pooling , the change to fiduciary delegation and the asset consolidation . they be uniquely affect by this Bill , which strike profoundly at the governance of the pension fund they have pay into in a way that it do not for other pension fund in this country . that be the definition of hybridity — if that be a word — so if we be go to stick to the rule in this House , we really should stick to they . I look forward to get the letter that you promise I , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I know that you have ask I not to refer to procedure in the other place , but this be not the only Chamber that will be look at this legislation . the hon . member for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) , who be just about to leave — I be sorry to detain she but will be brief — ask the Minister what the problem be . I repeat her question , but in relation to the local government pension scheme , I also ask what it have to do with he . it be my money , not his , and it be for scheme member to make decision about how they wish their money to be use . it be not taxpayer ' money ; it be my money . it be a define - contribution and benefit scheme , and we have all pay into it . he be the second Minister in the space of 18 month to try to interfere with the local government pension scheme , and I stand in this Chamber and oppose Michael Gove , now Lord Gove in the other place , when he attempt to manipulate the local government pension scheme for political reason . I urge the Minister to think twice before he do so . secondly , I believe that this Bill be conceptually flawed . if we be be generous — [ interruption . ] by all mean , the hon . member for Oldham East and Saddleworth be free to go — I will not be mention she again . she be hesitantly rise to leave . if I be be generous , the ambition behind this Bill be to unlock capital that can be invest for the purpose of growth , but the method it propose be chillingly dirigiste and make the dangerous assumption that Whitehall know well and that central direction by the Government can outperform the dispersed judgment of hundred of experienced trustee manage diverse fund in varied context . essentially , with this Bill the Minister be turn the pension fund industry into an element of Government procurement by the back door . there be three further point that I want to put on the radar on Second Reading . I understand that the Bill will go through , but I hope the Minister will take they into account . first , it be simply not true that megafund perform well . there be plenty of academic and empirical evidence that the picture be much more mixed . often , small fund with well governance and a more focused investment strategy can perform well . these supertank monopoly fund lose agility , lack accountability and become distant from pensioner and member of the fund . their investment discretion and their ability to move quickly on investment decision become sclerotic and bureaucratic . in particular , it be true that these megafund specifically underperform when they invest in exactly the kind of illiquid asset that the Government be hope to push they into : infrastructure and private equity . I urge the Government and the Minister please to examine carefully the evidence from the United States and elsewhere that show that these very large fund do not necessarily produce well return for investor . they may well be able to reduce cost because of scale , but I be afraid that the evidence be just not there on fundamental investment return . my second point be on the danger of politicisation . we have see elsewhere in the world where pension fund have be push into the Government ' s priority to their own detriment . in Canada , large pension fund have come under significant Government pressure to invest in state infrastructure . in France , pension fund surplus have be direct into Government bond - buy programme effectively against their will . once those asset become control and direct into state - favour investment vehicle , which be what the Government be propose through this Bill , the temptation for Ministers — not necessarily this Minister , but future Ministers — be to go far and push fund into politically convenient infrastructure project that may prove to be financially disastrous . if that power have be available to the political team that decide to instigate the frankly financially disastrous hs2 , and my pension fund have be put in it , where would I be now ? I urge the Minister to think carefully about the responsibility for my retirement and my future . by I , I be refer to myself as a member of the local government pension fund . I be everyman for these purpose . I be afraid that essentially what have happen in France and in Canada , and what may happen under this legislation in the UK , be that the pension fund system effectively become a tool of Government fiscal policy . effectively , absent capital spending available directly from the taxpayer , the Government direct capital spending from pension fund — from private money — and plug hole that they create by write cheque that they can not fulfil . I would be interested in the Minister ' s response to that . I be just google " dirigiste " and my right hon . friend ' s everyman quote . will he comment on the fact that OMERS , which he would probably agree be one of these megafund that he think be slow and unwieldy and invest in infrastructure and illiquid , return a 7 . 1 % net return over the last 10 year and the London Pensions Fund Authority return a 7 % return over the last 10 year ? as I say , the evidence about performance across the population of fund be mixed . some small fund do extremely well , because they have strong governance and a focused and nimble investment strategy . some megafund do reasonably well , because they can spread their risk across a variety of asset class , but it be not a give that a big fund will perform well than a small fund . in fact , in certain circumstance small fund , because they have well accountability and can have a more focused investment strategy , may well perform well . frankly , and this speak to my hon . friend ' s point , it be for I as a member of the pension fund to decide what I want to do , performance or otherwise , because it be my money . give that I have contract with this pension fund under circumstance make clear to I when I contract with it as part of my employment or otherwise , it be not necessarily for the Government to steam in and tell I what I should or should not do with my own money . that mean I carry a certain element of risk — absolutely — but unless we be go full - throate for the total financial infantilisation of the british people , I can not see that we have any other way to preserve our financial freedom and autonomy . do the right hon . member accept that he might be atypical among scheme member ? that may well be true , but that be a different question . there be a question about financial education and the ability of large number of our fellow citizen to understand these financial complexity . we have a large and professional independent financial adviser community , and all pension fund be require to have pension adviser who can speak to member , tell they what be go on and explain the decision before they . I do think that over the year , such step have disenfranchise the british people from their financial decision , yet we hold they responsible for their debt , their mortgage and their future . there be a large question for we in this House about how much we have subtract from the autonomy of the british people , and therefore how much blame attache to we as politician when their financial circumstance be not what they expect . the right hon . Member be give a lucid speech , as he always do — he speak very well — but I be fail to understand exactly the point he be make . he be talk about a local government pension scheme , which be guarantee he an income in retirement , as if it be a define - contribution scheme where he be the one at risk from change in the investment performance . it be local taxpayer with their employer contribution who ultimately bear the risk in the scheme he be talk about . it be our job to make sure that those taxpayer have the good possible chance of not have bad return , lead to bad outcome for they . he be not at risk in the way he be talk about . but I have pay into that scheme . you have . yes , I have . I pay contribution through my employment at City Hall , as do my employer . admittedly , it be a scheme base on a define benefit , rather than a define contribution , but that be the deal do with I on a settle contract , say that this be what I would be provide for from my contribution . every year , I review my pension benefit forecast . I be consult by the fund about how it should conduct its affair . I be ask to turn up to my pensioner ' conference to discuss with trustee how they be look after my future . the point be that the Government be steam in with absolutely no consultation with I as a pensioner and I have no right to be represent , although I be uniquely affect , beyond other pension scheme . I consider that to be high - handed and , as the hon . member for Oldham East and Saddleworth say , to be solve a problem that do not exist . my third point be also raise by my hon . friend the Member for Wyre Forest ( Mark Garnier ) : who carry the can ? what happen when the Minister tell my private pension scheme or the parliamentary pension scheme that it must invest in , for instance , HS2 and it turn out to be a disaster ? what happen when whichever ministerial pet project rise to the top of the priority list for pension allocation — what rough beast , its hour come round at last , slouch towards Whitehall to get its finance — and it all go horribly wrong ? I be sorry to quote Yeats to the Minister , but who will pay when that happen ? when there be a deficit in define - contribution pension fund that have be so direct by the Minister , who will pay for that deficit ? rise — I have already give way to the Minister . he say that the Bill contain an opt - out for pension fund , but that be not strictly accurate . it do not create an opt - out for trustee ; it create an opportunity for they to request the ability to opt out from the regulator , with whom the discretion to opt out lie . it also reverse the burden of proof . even if it be on their own judgment , the trustee must prove , empirically , that invest as the Minister so direct will be to the detriment of their fund . that be not a true opt - out . it be not at the discretion of the trustee . all they can do be request , and all they can do be try to offer whatever evidence they may have . we must reflect on the fact that an awful lot of investment decision be make by trustee on their judgment — yes , on advice , but on their judgment — and that be a very hard thing to disprove . I be afraid I feel that the Bill be bulldoze into an area of highly sensitive financial structure , and be not take care of the interest of those whom it purport to protect . it be reclassify risk , it be recentralise power , and it be rewrite contract that have hitherto be extant for many year . it be too important to my future , and the future of million of pensioner , for we to rush into this consensus - drive Bill without proper examination in Committee , with pensioner and pension fund themselves able to petition , as they should be , under a hybrid Bill structure . I be probably a parliamentary oddity , give that I have be look forward hugely to rise to support the Bill — and what luck to follow such a colourful and interesting speech from the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) . I believe that this landmark piece of legislation , which build on the progress make by the last Administration , have the potential to fundamentally reshape the trajectory of british capitalism by address one of the most important long - term challenge face our country , namely how we can unlock and unleash the full potential of british saving to support growth and prosperity here at home . it be a challenge that we must overcome if we be to tackle a number of deep - root structural weakness in our economy : low productivity , low business investment and regional inequality , as well as the financial insecurity that pervade the life of too many of our old citizen , especially those who do not own their home . before I go any far , I must pay tribute to my hon . friend the Minister — the Bill bear the hallmark of his serious and determined leadership — and also commend my hon . friend the Member for Tamworth ( Sarah Edwards ) for her very interesting speech . the Bill seek to address the lack of alignment between our nation ' s vast pool of domestic saving and the long - term investment need of our economy . over recent decade , that grow misalignment have become all too evident in community across the United Kingdom . during that time , our domestic pension fund , which now amount to about £ . 3 trillion , have steadily retreat from investment in the UK , although the trend have not be replicate in other comparable develop economy . despite taxpayer support amount to more than £ 60 billion a year — or £ 70 billion , accord to the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) — too little capital be find its way into british company , infrastructure and innovation . datum from the Capital Markets Industry Taskforce — I must disclose the fact that I once work for one of its member firm before enter this place — lay bare the scale of the problem . the datum focus primarily on public equity market , but when we look at the large pension scheme and fund in other country and compare the size of their total equity allocation relative to their domestic equity market , we see that Canada ' s pension be 2 . 5 time overweighte their home market , while France ' s be nine time overweight , Italy ' s 10 time overweight , Australia ' s 27 time overweight , and South Korea ' s be 30 time overweight . the UK be , massively , an international anomaly . our domestic pension fund be underweighte our equity market by about 40 % . that , I think , represent a structural weakness , with direct consequence for the global competitiveness of our economy , the vitality of our industry and , ultimately , our national economic resilience . if we be unwilling to invest in ourselves , we hold back our growth prospect . the UK have long need catalyst for a modern economic renaissance . the Government have take important first step through their industrial and infrastructure strategy , the artificial intelligence opportunity action plan and the reform of our planning system , but the common ingredient that be require to ensure their success be a reliable source of long - term capital . even a modest rebalancing of that £ 3 trillion could unlock billion in investment for domestic growth . in real currency that our constituent can understand , that mean investment in digital , physical and social infrastructure , and it mean great opportunity for entrepreneur to not only start up business but scale they into something globally consequential , provide well job and high income for family throughout the country . these investment be not just good for local economy . if we get the broad fundamental right , they can also deliver strong return for tomorrow ' s grow cohort of retiree , so the Government be right to propose tackle fragmentation across the UK pension system . in particular , the private define - contribution market and the local government pension scheme remain too fragmented . I must gently disagree with the right hon . member for North West Hampshire : I think that there be too many small , sub - scale scheme that have not only drive up cost and create market inefficiency , but result overall in suboptimal investment outcome . I think that large fund can manage risk well , and can invest in opportunity that can deliver high return for saver . I do not dispute the fact that there be too many small fund that be suboptimal ; my question be whether it should be the Government who correct that . if , for example , I be a member of a small suboptimal pension fund and the Government , through the Bill , consolidate it with another pension fund , and it turn out that this reduce my return , who carry the can ? as I have say , I think that large fund can manage risk well and deliver well outcome for saver , which mean that they can take great ownership of how they spend their retirement year . I also think that the £ 25 billion threshold for megafund in the define - contribution market be the right level to deliver the objective . other jurisdiction , especially Australia , Canada , and the Netherlands , have demonstrate that scale drive well governance , low fee and strong return . I welcome consolidation and the path towards the professionalisation of the local government pension scheme . I disclose that before I enter this place , I chair a local authority pension fund , so I know at first hand the potential of pool , and share many experience of pension fund meeting with the shadow Minister . I fully acknowledge that there will be resistance to pool in some quarter . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . do he agree that there be a grow consensus in the pension industry ? indeed , some of the trade body have be heavily involve in promote the idea of consolidation for some time , and perhaps what he be describe be a grow body of opinion in the pension industry . my hon . friend be absolutely right . stakeholder and firm that I have speak to — in the local government pension sector , the private sector and the City of London — be unanimous that scale be very much an economic imperative . have the Government consider what role fiscal incentive can play in help to accelerate the consolidation of private DC fund , and whether there be scope to reduce the number of LGPS pool in the year ahead ? I particularly welcome the Bill ' s proposal for a comprehensive value - for - money framework to guide DC consolidation , which my hon . friend the Member for Tamworth ( Sarah Edwards ) mention . this correctly tackle head - on the trustee cost mindset , which too often prioritise the cheap over the most appropriate asset allocation . that approach have frequently be try and test , and it deliver poor return for saver and miss opportunity for the wide economy , so I very much hope that DC consolidation can be implement as soon as possible . finally , I want to address the issue of mandation , which , to be honest , probably warrant a debate all by itself . I appreciate the concern that have be raise by member from across the House , and by people in the investment industry . my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) refer to the parliamentary fund , and I note non - facetiously that the parliamentary fund , of which we be all ultimately beneficiary , allocate barely 1 % of its asset to UK company . in Hampshire , we have a super - age population , so pension and post - retirement financial concern be frequently raise in my North East Hampshire constituency casework . one of my constituent write to I to say : " I want my pension to be put to work deliver sustainable , long - term growth and prosperity that allow every community in the UK to thrive . " this Bill should require full transparency from pension scheme to empower people to support sustainable , long - term growth in their community . do the hon . Member agree that require transparency would be the most effective way of incentivise investment ? in all aspect of our financial system and our financial market , and when it come to either public activity or private market , transparency be very much the good way to derive the most effective outcome for those who benefit from pension scheme . initiative such as the Mansion House accord , which have be refer to a number of time in this debate , have be welcome step . when it come to asset allocation , private sector leadership should always be preferable where possible , but we need to be candid about the fact that the challenge we face in the UK be stark and immediate . I now consider it necessary for the Government to signal to the market that they will not ignore the reality that allocation by UK institution to UK asset have fall sharply over my lifetime , and certainly over the last 40 or 50 year , and that they be prepared to exercise a degree of agency , if require . ideally , any reserve power will not be require . if the Government succeed with their broad economic strategy , there will be a wealth of investable opportunity that will attract capital without the need for compulsion . although the Government will need to exercise any reserve power in the most judicious and careful way , and in close consultation with the industry , we simply can not stand by and allow our domestic market to be hollow out . I understand that not everyone be in favour of the state intervene in market , and I be sure that the Minister , who work at the Treasury , will remember that not everyone in the City want the Government to step in and rescue Lloyds Banking Group or the Royal Bank of Scotland , but sometimes the Government have to act decisively in the country ' s long - term economic interest . the Bill be a welcome and necessary step towards answer the question of how we inject great confidence into our company , our market and our economy , while also provide people with a safe and secure retirement . that be why I be pleased to support it tonight . I start with an apology to the Minister , because I have a bit of a giggle when the timeline for pension dashboard be mention . I have be here quite a long time , and I feel like we have be talk about pension dashboard for that entire time . it have be suggest that they be just around the corner for most of the last 10 year . it feel like this be something that we rehash on a regular basis . it would be great if they really be just around the corner ; I look forward to see they . the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) will not be surprised to hear that our political ideology be slightly different when it come to interventionism and what the Government should or should not do . it be completely acceptable for the Government to give some direction on the large asset , but I be specifically not talk about the lgps , because it do not exist in Scotland . that part of the Bill do not apply to my constituent , so I will not touch too much on that . I understand where the hon . Lady be come from . she be keen on Government intervention in our pension , but do she recognise that that represent a fairly significant transfer of investment risk , and that the Government should underwrite that risk in all fairness to pensioner , who may lose money as a result ? auto - enrolment be a fairly substantial intervention by the Government in pension . since 1997 , pension have have to increase in line with inflation , and that be an intervention by the Government . there have be a long trail of intervention by the Government in how asset be manage and where they be hold , but pension trustee be still require to get a return . I agree with the right hon . gentleman about specific project , and I would be particularly concerned if we be look at specific project , but the mandation relate to UK asset , and the fund in which they could be invest . I would love to see much more investment of pension fund in social housing , for example , where the trustee can get a pretty great return , but they will still have a fiduciary duty and responsibility . for define - benefit scheme , the member will always get what they have be promise they will get . no matter how the fund be manage , they have a define benefit from the scheme , unlike in a define - contribution scheme , where it depend on the size of the pot as it grow — but I be go to carry on , because I have a lot to cover that be not to do with mandation , and as I say , the LGPS do not apply in Scotland . on value for money , I think the Bill be good , because compare pension scheme be difficult . compare any financial scheme be difficult because they be all lay out in different way and the fee be calculate in different way , so it do not make sense to most people . some of stuff on require the publication of information on value for money in certain way be important , and the survey be also important . I have slight concern about the chapter on value for money because , in comparison with the small pot consolidation section , there be no requirement to publish the regulation in draft before they actually become regulation . there be a requirement for consultation , as there be in both those chapter , but not a requirement for publication in draft . I think it be important for those to be publish , so the wide possible range of view can come forward , because value for money be so important for such a wide range of people , whereas some of the other stuff in the Bill be much more technical and will have an impact on far few people . the point about publish the regulation in draft be important . I be disappointed that the Government have not make more move on adequacy , but give where we be in the cost of living crisis , I can understand why it may be difficult to get cross - party political consensus on the creation of adequacy provision . this Bill could have take more of a look at pension in general , rather than be about pension specifically , because in a lot of way the Bill be seek to do be improve every individual ' s pension pot ' s potential for growth . that be an admirable aim , but some of the large picture could have be include — for example , in relation to auto - enrolment , the under - 22 and people earn small amount of money who do not qualify . the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) allude to the mid - life mot , which I have previously shout about . I agree that people should be send an appointment for a mid - life mot , in the same way as they be ask to get their bowel cancer screening send through the post . it should be exactly the same with a mid - life mot , which be so important , but so many people duck and dive about it . millennial be come up to reach this point , but millennial be a generation particularly averse to think about retirement , because we do not think it will happen to we . we think we will die before we get there , because there be an incredible amount of cynicism among millennial . we tend to avoid think about it because we be not go to reach that point , so force millennial — in the nice possible way — by give they such an appointment and make it for they mean they be much more likely to undertake it . on guide retirement , again I think the Bill tackle the issue pretty well by ensure that people have more information . I be particularly concerned about the people who draw down the 25 % tax - free sum of money , and then do not have a plan for the rest of it . how many of they have just think about the 25 % , and have not think about the rest of it , or about how complicated and unpredictable annuity can be depend on the year ? I be think about somebody I know who do not smoke or drink and run 10 km a couple of time a week , but they will get a small annuity than somebody who do the opposite . do people know how unpredictable it be — how much they will get and the fact that they can not tell from what the pot look like the actual outcome to cover their living expense ? any kind of understanding people can be give about that be really important . I do still have concern about some of the issue with freedom and how financially disadvantageous it can be for a significant number of people . I agree with some of the stuff on the consolidation of small pot . I have a concern about the fact that the Secretary of State or the Minister can make change to the definition of small pot by look at some consultation and then bring a statutory instrument to the House . I would appreciate some clarification , and agreement that the Minister will consult pretty widely before take a decision about change the definition of small pot in secondary legislation . on surplus release , I would disagree with a chunk of the Conservative Members who would use it for slightly different thing . I press the Minister on the balance between the economic growth mission and what employee will get as a result of surplus release . I be pleased to hear that trustee will have some flexibility , but I be concerned that that create a system with a number of tier , because it depend on how passionate the trustee be about help the employee or help the Government ' s growth mission . I would ask for some guidance from the Government about what they expect . when they be make that deal with employer , they have to agree with the employer where that money will go — how much of the money will go to increase the pension pot and how much into people ' s salary . there will need to be a significant amount of guidance for trustee on where the Government expect money to go . it would be appreciate if we could be involve in the creation of that guidance , or at least be consult on what it be suppose to look like . on megafund , there be a bit of a " wait and see " on what megafund , both master trust and the superfund , will look like and how they will pan out . I can understand look at other place the Government consider to be successful in how pension fund be manage and the very large investment that could be create as a result of huge fund . I appreciate that overhead can be reduce and that fund can be run more efficiently as a result , and that investment can be make into very large , long - term patient capital project if the fund be significant . my specific question on superfund be about new entrant to the market . the Bill state that there be an ability for transition . organisation likely to meet superfund status at some point , give a certain amount of time , will be give slack until they can reach that status , which be utterly sensible . but then it talk about new entrant come in to become a superfund . there be a pathway and the ability to get approval to do that , but only if they be innovative . I be slightly concerned about what innovative mean , because it be not define — I think it will be define in secondary legislation . why should they be innovative ? surely , if a new entrant be excellent , that should be enough ? innovative concern I . I do not really understand what it mean , or why it be in the rule for new entrant . anything the Government can say to explain what they think that be suppose to mean , and what they intend it to mean in the secondary legislation , would be helpful . on the whole , the SNP be cautiously optimistic about the Bill . we believe there need to be some change and we have specific question in various area , such as : on the rationale in relation to mandating ; on the rule on value for money and how they will impact individual ; and on the consolidation of small pot and how they will ensure individual have well outcome . it be not in the Bill , but ensure the pension dashboard happen so that people can see the consolidation of small pot happen in real time would be incredibly helpful . the good outcome we can get be for everybody to have an adequate pension when they reach retirement . we will not get that if people can not see and can not understand what they have in their pension and if those small pot be not consolidated . rise — Order . before I call the next speaker , I just want to be clear that it will be about an hour before the wind - up . nine member be bob , so perhaps you can all reflect on that in your contribution so that I do not have to put on a time limit . I rise to speak in favour of the Bill . on a policy basis , the Bill address a number of very important challenge . the first be ensure that the pension system deliver good outcome for the million of pension saver in Britain . that be absolutely critical . in my lifetime , the risk of pension saving have shift from the employer to the employee — in other word , to our constituent . at the heart of the reform be one essential fact : investment in a diverse set of asset lead to well return and well outcome than investment in a narrow set of asset . we need to move away from a focus on cost in the industry and on to a focus on overall value and the outcome that saver get , so they have comfortable retirement . I be determined that the work people in Glasgow East have comfortable retirement and be properly reward for their hard work . therefore , the Bill ' s objective of ensure that saver in Glasgow East and across the United Kingdom ultimately have access to a wide pool of investment , which have historically be restrict , be a good outcome and a good policy . the second challenge the Bill seek to address be growth . People in Glasgow East be very ambitious , as I know they be in Aberdeen North and in Hampshire . as I knock on door ahead of last year ' s election , people would say to I , " Britain have lose its way . " and many people say that they feel their child would be well off work abroad , or that there be more opportunity for their child abroad . that be the challenge the Bill play a part in addressing . we do not invest enough in our productive capacity so we have low , sclerotic economic growth . pension saving be an essential source of finance for british industry and infrastructure . in that regard , the Bill include , in chapter 3 of part 2 , something that seem to be cause anxiety : the backstop mandation of investment by define - contribution pension fund into private asset class link to the United Kingdom . private non - list share and debt be now central to investment in a way that they be not when I start off as a junior lawyer many year ago . growth company in area such as medicine , AI , technology and , of course , space remain in private hand for much long , and list on public market much later , if at all . the mandation power must be view in that context . if UK pension fund do not invest in those class of domestic asset , work people may miss out on significant return , and we risk lose the opportunity of growth and of develop the great innovation from our fantastic university , include the University of Strathclyde . the hon . Gentleman be make a good point , but do he accept that illiquid investment , by their very nature , tend to be more volatile , and that from a risk - adjust point of view they therefore represent much high risk for investor ? he mention investment in life science company ; he will be aware of the collapse a couple of year ago of the fund lead by Neil Woodford , which be a significant investor in illiquid private sector life science company and , because of that illiquidity , collapse . the point be that if we be mandate to do that stuff — I ask the same question as I ask the Minister — who will pay ? who carry the can ? I hope the right hon . Gentleman would accept that diversification be critical here . of course , illiquid private asset be not something that one hold for a couple of year and then sell , but the fund be design to be large enough to bear the risk from diversification . that be the critical point . pension fund be a statutory arrangement , with significant taxation and other legal benefit . that create a business opportunity for pension provider — and quite right , too . against that background , it be right that the Government review whether , under the exist arrangement , saver be get a fair return from that special statutory and legal arrangement . give the tax break , it be not unreasonable to address the question of whether there be sufficient investment in the United Kingdom . let I turn to our attitude to risk in the UK , on which the success of pension arrangement turn , as do our desire for more economic growth . we will not get more economic growth unless we take more reasonable risk , as the Chancellor of the Exchequer and other have make clear . it be essential for bank and fund manager to consider whether they take enough risk . the chief executive of the National Wealth Fund , John Flint , make the point last Tuesday at the Treasury Committee , when he say , " I would encourage the steward of private capital to go back and challenge themselves on their risk appetite … the country ' s growth outcome be , for I , largely consistent with the country ' s risk appetite generally . " I venture to say that our great fund manager and bank need to turn their mind to whether they be take enough risk , because that drive economic growth and drive successful outcome for saver . another aspect of pension reform and risk taking be the individual saver , as be bring home to I in a quite different context , when I be on a football history tour organise by football ' s Square Mile , which promote the history of football in Glasgow East . as we stand mainly in Glasgow East — I must admit that some of it be in Glasgow South — the guide explain to we that when queen ' s Park decide to organise the first international football match between Scotland and England in 1872 , the club have just over £ 7 . it have a choice : the low risk be to hold the match at a rugby club , free of charge ; the high risk be to hold the match at the West of Scotland cricket club at Partick , an old , closed ground where ticket could be sell and there be potential revenue . the problem be that the West of Scotland cricket club want more by way of rent than the Queen ' s Park have — much more than £ 7 . the guide put the choice to we all as we stand just in Glasgow South constituency , and just outside my constituency . the vast majority of people on the tour pick the low - risk option : an indication , at the end of the week , of how risk - averse we have become in Britain . encourage sensible risk taking be critical to pension saving and if we want more economic growth . in fact , queen ' s Park take the high - risk option : it rent the cricket ground and make a huge profit . the game transform the profile of football and be the foundation for Queen ' s Park ' s build the first international football stadium in the world , which open a year later in 1873 in my constituency . queen ' s Park take a risk that be pivotal to the development of modern football , and modern football contribute billion to the Exchequer . my point be that risk be essential to economic activity , as Mr Flint explain and as be illustrate later in the week . the Bill be critical for economic growth . it take active step to ensure that money flow to the entrepreneur and risk taker who will create wealth across Britain . it ensure that work people have access to well pension . on that basis , I support the Bill . I regret that the Pensions Minister , the hon . member for Swansea West ( torsten Bell ) , be no long in his place ; I want to pay he something of a compliment for get the Bill here today with typical ambition and enthusiasm . I should , however , remind he of my grandmother ' s favourite saying : an ounce of experience be worth a ton of enthusiasm . I stand here to talk about part 3 of the Bill on the basis of about four year ' experience as a director of the first pension superfund , have attempt to get it through the Pensions Regulator and the interim regime put up under the last government . that be ultimately unsuccessful ; part of the reason why we be go to need the Pensions Minister ' s enthusiasm and ambition be that he will come up against a series of vested interest . when we attempt — [ interruption . ] I welcome the Pensions Minister back to his place and be grateful that he be here to listen to this . when we attempt to launch the pension superfund , we be bombard by people who want to strangle the superfund industry at birth : the Association of British Insurers ; an extraordinary intervention by the Governor of the Bank of England — I be not sure whether the Minister have have a chance to reprogramme the Governor of the Bank of England recently , but I hope he be more enthusiastic about the Minister ' s proposal than he be about the last Government ' s — and lastly , the Pensions Regulator itself . I think the Minister want to create a thriving market in superfund . however , under the current interim guidance , capital requirement for superfund be about twice those for insurer provide buy - out , so it be hardly surprising that we have see a number of recent new entrant to the insurance market but no new superfund . the Solvency II regime — apology for the slightly technical language , but the Minister will appreciate it — that apply to insurer work off a one - year 99 . 5 % confidence level , but over time the industry have be allow to apply a number of important adjustment , include diversification , matching adjustment and defer tax credit . all have have the effect of effectively reduce the capital requirement for insurer . in combination , that mean that the capital buffer for a buy - out provider be approximately half that of a superfund under the current interim regime , even take into account the fact that superfund be propose to have a one - year 99 % confidence level . the Bill must address that inherent unfairness if , as the Minister want , the superfund market be to grow . at the moment , it be the proverbial baby who refuse to put on weight . can the Minister assure I that the Bill will address the problem and create a more level playing field that will allow superfund to offer the 10 % to 15 % pricing discount to insurer that his Department have say it be seek ? as the Minister know , there be a number of technique for achieve that . he might consider : specify that superfund should apply a 98 % one - year confidence threshold ; the creation of a rule similar to the match adjustment that apply to insurer ; extend a vat exemption to superfund for essential pension service , such as admin , actuarial and investment , include scheme origination and transfer of the scheme to superfund ; or — I suppose this be an " and / or " — allow superfund to use structured capital instrument such as subordinated debt and preferred share to lower the cost of capital and enhance investment flexibility , without compromise quality . lastly , I turn to the Pensions Regulator ' s process of assess superfund and give they a licence to operate — this be the bit where I have the scar on my back . will the Minister take a close personal interest in this and change the way that the Pensions Regulator work , so that there be strict and short time limit for assess suitability — short than the limit currently in the Bill , which be six month as a default and nine month as a stretch ? in the case of the pension superfund , we have three application and a similar timescale be use . one can just imagine why the investor ’ patience finally run out and the whole thing be wind up . I do not want the Minister to be in the position of his predecessor , Guy Opperman , who stand in this place and say that greenlighte superfund be his great achievement during lockdown , yet as a result of a combination of the regulatory environment that be put in place and the vested interest of those who argue against the birth of superfund , the whole concept be strangle at birth . I want the Minister to avoid that , so I encourage he to look back at the first effort to produce superfund and tell the Pensions Regulator a great deal more about how it should do its business . the reason why the Pensions Regulator become risk averse be because the last Government refuse to cover superfund in their Pension Schemes Bill , now the Pension Schemes Act 2021 . the Pensions Regulator do not see why it should take any additional risk if politician be not go to . I encourage the Minister to have the strength of his conviction to use primarily legislation to tell the Pensions Regulator the market that he want it to regulate . then he will give pension superfund a fighting chance of come into existence and consolidate . notwithstanding some of the concern that other have have , 5 , 100 of anything be not a work marketplace ; it be ripe for consolidation — it be then and it be now . first , I want to declare an interest . I subscribe to my current parliamentary pension , have preserve benefit in previous occupational pension and , like the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) , I too have preserve benefit in the local government pension scheme , though I do not propose to say much about that element of the Bill . I suppose that as a worker with a variety of pension , I be go to benefit from the Bill . I welcome the Government ' s proposal under the Bill , as too many people have their hard - earn cash scatter across pension pot that deliver poor return on their saving and leave they confused about their future and bad off in retirement . the Bill will deliver more money for saver by make pension simple to understand and easy to manage , and they will return well value over the long term . the new rule will bring together define - contribution small pension pot , to cut cost for saver and industry and help people to view their full pension picture easily . that will protect they from get stick in underperform scheme for year . the Bill have be welcome by the pension industry , as it set out a long - term plan to create big and well pension fund that will boost return for saver and drive long - term investment across the country . as we have hear , in the UK pension system there be more small pension pot than there be pensioner . currently there be 13 million small pot hold £ 1 , 000 or less , with the number increase by around 1 million every year . small pot be costly for saver and industry , who can lose money through flat - rate charge or administrative cost , and they deliver poor return because they be not big enough to invest in high - yield productive asset . the Bill will introduce a new value - for - money system to improve outcome for saver . it will assess the DC scheme and the arrangement that they operate , base on cost , investment performance and service quality . this will identify and address poor - perform scheme or arrangement , encourage consolidation and improve member outcome while promote investment in a wide range of productive asset . it will also protect saver from get stick in underperform scheme for year . the Bill ' s proposal will also help to unlock about £ 50 billion for investment in the UK economy . ease the rule around surplus fund could help unlock billion for employer to invest in their business and deliver for scheme member . for many business , that may be the financial lifeline they need to free up capital for investment or debt reduction , although it be important to flag that pension scheme trustee work with employer will decide whether to release surplus and act in the interest of scheme beneficiary , and trustee will be require to maintain a strong funding position so that they can pay member ' future pension when they fall due . will minister ensure that member or worker representation on trustee board be part of the plan ? like many people , I bring live experience to this space ; I be speak as someone who work in human resource . I be often ask question by employee about their pension , and I always have to say , " I be not provide advice ; this be solely information , " as I dish out their annual pension benefit statement . so I be very aware that most employee just want to understand more about their pension : what their contribution be and how those will benefit they in the future . I therefore very much welcome the introduction of the long - await pension dashboard , which will provide saver with their whole pension picture — workplace and state pension — securely and all in one place online . we hope that it will finally be with we next year . I commend the Bill to the House . although this Bill aim to strengthen pension investment , improve resilience and boost pension pot , many of my constituent be among the large number of individual who face serious pension injustice right now . I welcome some of the reform that the Government be introduce through the Bill , include the terminal illness and life expectancy measure . however , I be concerned that it do not go far enough to protect vulnerable pensioner in the UK now and tomorrow , or to ensure that we will not have future pension scandal . I recently raise in the House the immoral Midland bank — now HSBC — pension scheme clawback , whereby long - serve employee be unfairly deprive of large portion of their DB pension through a misleadingly label " state deduction " . the Government ' s response be that the clawback be a legal process and they be powerless to assist former HSBC employee who have be financially impact by those deduction . a disproportionate number of they be woman . expert from Exeter University have put together a number of recommendation for the Government that would ensure that pension injustice such as the HSBC clawback scheme would no long be able to operate . if the government do not legislate against such injustice now , they be wilfully keep pensioner — my constituent — in poverty . the same can be say for the widow and widower and partner of former policeman and woman upon their remarriage or cohabitation , despite the fact that in Northern Ireland and Scotland , and for widow and widower of armed force personnel , survivor ' pension be uphold regardless of remarriage or cohabitation . a court ruling in 2023 decide that be not to be the case for widow or widower of policeman and woman . Police force pensioner deserve consistency throughout the UK . the most high - profile pension injustice be the one affect the WASPI woman — Women against State Pension Equality Campaign — who see rapid and steep increase to their state pension age without adequate notice , and for whom the Government have fail to provide adequate compensation despite the instruction of the ombudsman to do so . what be the point of re - establish the ombudsman ' s legal power and restore they as a pension court if the Government refuse to listen to such judgment ? that be by no mean an exhaustive list ; many other pension scandal need address . it be worry that we do not see an explicit commitment in the Bill to support the divestment of pension fund from planet - wreck industry . for example , local authority invest about £ 10 billion in direct or indirect fossil fuel industry through their local government pension scheme fund . we must act now to protect pensioner and deliver prosperity for our future generation while protect our planet . the Bill represent a timely attempt to create a system whereby few and big pension fund can provide well value for member and do more to support the UK economy . key to this , though , will be ensure that pensioner get a decent income in retirement , alongside create the condition that allow pension fund to invest in way that benefit the UK , support good job and finance a just transition to a low - carbon economy . the Bill need to acknowledge , in the direction it take , the scale of the task that we face . one in six pensioner today live in poverty . only 62 % of pensioner receive an occupational pension of any kind , and those who do get an average of just £ 210 a week . half of define - contribution saver — around 14 million people — be not on track for the income they expect , and the 2017 auto - enrolment review recommendation have still not be implement . those challenge need to be address , along with the unfairness of the current rule around tax relief , which benefit high earner and need reform . as have be mention this evening , the Bill do not consider the specific issue of adequacy , and how the state pension interact with define - benefit and define - contribution scheme . give that the aim of a pension be to provide an income in retirement , it be vital that we look at pension in the round , not just those associate with occupational or private scheme . a statutory review into retirement income every five year would give this and future government the oversight need to regularly assess the adequacy of our pension system , include the opportunity to look at contribution rate for employer and employee . I be aware that the second stage of the pension review will consider those point , but I would be grateful if the Minister give a little more clarity on when that be likely to begin . the Bill need to be strengthen on the issue of climate change and the destruction of nature . UK pension scheme continue to hold around £ 88 billion in fossil fuel company , include those involve in new coal , oil and gas exploration , and have investment in company link to deforestation around the globe . over 85 % of lead scheme lack a credible climate action plan . consolidate small pension pot into large megafund provide the ability to invest in long - term infrastructure project , but that must not be at the expense of the environment . do the hon . Member agree that there be an opportunity here to do something transformational for our local community by enable fund , particularly local government pension fund , to invest in much - need infrastructure like care home , special school or even our high street , which would provide a secure long - term return and could be transformational for local community that need investment ? I think that what the hon . member raise be the creativity that we need on this issue , so that we look beyond the obvious investment towards some that perhaps have more social worth . I hope that the Bill will allow for that . for pension saver to have a secure future , we will need to phase out investment in fossil fuel . as the Chancellor have recognise , all financial sector regulation and legislation should integrate climate and nature . I would be grateful if the Minister could therefore address whether there will be legislative action , not just voluntary commitment , to phase out the destructive environmental investment that pension fund currently make , and to introduce an element of the Bill that acknowledge the connection between green investment , environmental protection and decent pension . turn to the local government pension scheme , governance structure vary widely across the exist pool , and reporting have be inconsistent . pool arrangement have not always provide the power to influence investment , which be why the TUC , for example , be call for a thorough review of the performance of exist pool to identify good practice in the relationship between fund and pool , as well as in governance arrangement , and for the introduction of clear and consistent reporting requirement before any acceleration and further consolidation take place . it be also important to point to the democratic deficit that exist within the scheme as a whole . while the role of member representative within the LGPS be a great strength , they be largely absent from pool governance structure at present , and this legislation do not specify a role for those people . give that pension fund be the defer wage of the workforce , we must ensure that there be great member engagement and democratic oversight by those involve in the scheme . not only should this stretch to have guarantee place on board with full voting right , but it must ensure that scheme member can have their say as to where their money be invest . there will undoubtedly be occasion when member be concerned about investment in particular industry , or , I would add , in particular country , and they should have a mechanism by which those view can be express . do my hon . friend agree that it be good that , in the local government pension scheme , representative of both employer and employee can sit on the pension committee , and that we often have trade union representative on the committee as well ? my hon . friend be quite right . trade union do sit on many of the LGPS committee . I be make the point that it be on the pool where there be less representation for those member voice to be hear , and that be extremely important . finally , I want to talk about the pre - 1997 pensioner . we know that those who have see the big drop in income be those who build up pension before 1997 . they have not receive an annual inflation - link increase to their pension and , over time , particularly when inflation be high , the value of their pension be erode . some 80 , 000 Pension Protection Fund member , mostly old people and disproportionately woman , include some of my constituent , find themselves in this position . I hope the Government will therefore consider legislate to provide inflation protection on pre - 1997 benefit , and to give the PPF great flexibility to use its surplus to give discretionary improvement to member . in conclusion , the idea that worker ' pension fund can be use to build much - need social housing and invest in green technology and job be something that a progressive Labour Government should be proud of , and I hope we can ensure that the Bill deliver a win for pensioner , a win for our environment and a win for society as a whole . Cross - party working be essential to ensure that there be public confidence in a system we will all need to use in our twilight year . that be why Conservative member be ready to work constructively to improve this legislation and , where necessary , to provide a " critical friend " approach and challenge the Government ' s thinking . when it come to pension and the long - term financial security of our constituent , we should not play party politic . it be in this spirit that I raise my own concern with the Bill . the Bill do not focus enough on increase the amount of money flow into people ' s pension pot — something we literally can not afford to ignore . I be proud that it be the last Conservative Government that lead the introduction of auto - enrolment — a significant pension reform that dramatically improve individual ' financial wellbee in later life . the 8 % contribution be a game changer . yes , the system rely on inertia , but for the first time , million of worker begin save for their retirement . we must now confront an uncomfortable truth : the contribution rate look less adequate by the day . too many of our constituent be head towards retirement without the income they will need . for example , the Pensions Policy Institute have highlight that 9 million UK adult be currently under - pensioned . inaction be not an option . we be allow people to sleepwalk into a retirement crisis . the level of auto - enrolment contribution be never intend to be a silver bullet . instead , it be conceive as a foundation or starting point for pension saving . importantly , that foundation be once support by two key pillar : define - benefit scheme , which offer guarantee income to many , and high level of home ownership , which provide an asset to fall back on in later life . both have erode significantly over the last two decade . the 8 % auto - enrolment rate on its own be woefully inadequate , and many worker will not realise that in respect of their own financial circumstance until it be too late . it would be all too easy to simply raise the auto - enrolment rate to some arbitrary level , but we would find ourselves back here in 15 year ' time have the same conversation about a system where inertia and disengagement continue . if we truly want last change , we can not focus solely on the percentage ; we need to dramatically improve how people engage with their saving . that start with improve financial education . as the sponsor of a private Member ' s Bill on this precise topic and as a chartered accountant by background , this be a cause on which I place great importance . shockingly , though perhaps unsurprisingly , Standard Life have highlight that three in four people do not know how much they have in pension saving . that need to change through increase engagement , but also by allow saver increase control over their own saving . People should be able to easily view all their pot in one place , which be why it be frustrating to have see delay to the roll - out of the pension dashboard , which many hon . member have mention . the pension dashboard will encourage individual to make active choice , to understand their option and to assess whether their current saving be enough for their desire lifestyle in retirement . on that note , do the hon . Member agree that we should also make it easy for people to understand what a define - contribution scheme pot actually mean for they in retirement — that is , how much income it will get they on a monthly or annual basis , rather than just , " this be the value of the pot " ? the hon . Member make an important point . that go back to financial education and ensure that people truly understand their pension and saving . increase saving be important , but we need to ensure that it be drive by individual who understand and can shape their own financial future . other country have look at increase incentive for save . South Africa and the US have scheme that enable people to draw from their pension pot in tightly define circumstance , such as for emergency or investment opportunity . such flexibility would increase confidence in pension saving and help address the other concern fact that 21 % of UK adult have less than £ 1 , 000 set aside for emergency , leave they susceptible to economic shock outside of their control and , in turn , less likely to prioritise saving in their pension . poor pension adequacy do not just harm retiree ; it have serious implication for the state . as our life expectancy continue to rise , the state ' s pension bill will continue to increase . benefit like pension credit will increase exponentially as the lack of adequate private provision leave more and more rely on the state . as we see just last week , it be often incredibly hard to reform welfare . as a Conservative , I believe that the answer lie in personal responsibility and in encourage and help people to build up their own private pension provision for the benefit of themselves , their family and , ultimately , the rest of society . my hon . friend be make a strong speech and some strong point . do he agree that the alarm bell he be ring about financial education , the under - provision of pension and longevity be even more stark and alarming next to the demographic change that mean that over the next 30 year , we will see the number of worker per pensioner plummet ? we will go from about 3 . 6 worker per pensioner at the moment to well under three by 2070 , which mean that even if pension be not enough , the country will not be able to afford to plug the gap as it do at the moment ? my right hon . friend make a compelling case . as I say in my speech , this go back to financial education and ensure that we all understand the implication of pension adequacy . my concern about adequacy do not mean that the Bill do not have its merit . the continuation of conservative policy , the small pot consolidation and the creation of megafund be sensible reform that will increase individual ' pension pot by reduce dormant pot and increase economy of scale . however , this be a miss opportunity for a Government with a large majority . they could have act more boldly , move fast and improve pension adequacy throughout the United Kingdom . I would like a clear commitment from the Government that they be actively look at improve pension adequacy . the Labour party have long profess to be the party of worker , yet some who look at the Bill will sense that it do not go far enough in prevent the UK from decline into be a society fund by welfare in retirement . let we encourage people to strive , work hard and save more for a well future . I very much hope that the Government will work collegiately and cross party with his Majesty ' s Opposition in Committee to ensure that our constituent do not sleepwalk into a retirement crisis . have be lucky enough to chair a local government pension scheme committee and sit on a pool oversight board — purely because I be the only person leave on the committee after the election , I think — I would like to talk about the Bill ' s impact on local government pension scheme . the Bill would consolidate LGPS fund into six pool , on the basis that that would be effective in achieve scale , diversification of asset and cost saving . lgps be recently merge into eight pool by the last government , of course . Cornwall ' s pool contain nine lgps from the south - west and the Environment Agency . it take a number of year to set up and transfer the fund over to the pool . setting - up cost mean that the consolidation saving from act at scale be start to show only now , a few year later . hire an extra tier of staff on top of the LGPS staff , who be still need to administer the fund , correspond with member and employer , and manage the investment , be expensive . close down our current pool and join another be likely to be the same . there be also concern , which I would like the Minister to address , that go to a large pool may affect that local link . we have a strong south - west pool at present , and remove that link and scatter we across the country could impact the effectiveness of our pool at make local investment . that be what I want to talk about next . bring scheme together enable they to invest in big local project , from infrastructure to clean energy . that boost return for saver and help community . Cornwall be very good at that . we use our £ 2 . 3 billion , which be not a huge fund when we think about the size of the pool that we be talk about now , to do precisely that kind of thing . other member have talk about responsible investment . we have a very strong responsible investment policy , and our carbon - neutral target date be early than that of the rest of the pool . we be able to maintain those policy and our environment , social and governance focus by have a strong presence on the oversight board . that enable we to influence the pool . I hope that this influence will continue , so that pool be not drag down to the low common denominator when it come to ESG matter and responsible investment , but will instead be raise up . our local social impact fund be , in the end , 7 . 5 % of our investment . we be able to channel our LGPS investment into affordable private rental housing and local renewable in Cornwall , as well as renewable more widely around the UK . will local government pension scheme still be able to set their own target in the pool in this way and do their own thing ? although we work closely with the pool to ensure that pool deliver scale advantage , we want to make sure that our local impact portfolio , as part of our social impact allocation , enable we to combine our fiduciary responsibility to our member with deliver that social and environmental positive change in Cornwall , where we be , and where our member work and live . that have a massive impact on how the fund be view locally . we hope that it would provide a framework for other to follow , but within our pool of 10 , we be the only one who do it . will the Minister confirm that local lgps will be able to set their own target in a big pool , even if the area be geographically disparate ? I want to mention the measure that require regulation for the LGPS to include a duty for administer authority to work with strategic authority in their area to identify opportunity for investment . when we run our social impact fund , it be difficult to organise that at arm ' s length . member who be part of the local authority want to direct where all investment go , but that have to be do at arm ' s length through investment fund manager , who have little connection to the area . it be hard to stand back and watch they do that . how will the fiduciary duty allow local government pension scheme administration authority to work with the strategic authority in their area , particularly if , as in Cornwall , they be one and the same ? cornwall unitary authority be exactly the same size and have the same authority as the administrating authority of the LGPS . to conclude , the scheme work well in Cornwall and provide good result . I still drive past the house in Camborne that be build by our local government pension scheme ; local people live in they , do local job . the good result be mainly down to good officer , to be honest , and a flexible pool that allow we to do our own thing and take our own route . I hope that that freedom will remain under the Bill . we all share in the ambition to ensure the sustainability of pension , and to provide the good possible income for all our constituent in retirement . give the time , I will keep my comment reasonably short , but have come to this place from the City — though I do not work in the pension industry — and as an officer of the all - party parliamentary group for pension and growth , I look forward to provide more detailed scrutiny of the Bill as it progress through the House . I rise to share concern about the Bill , some of which have be share with I by City institution . first , I be concerned that this Bill demonstrate a broad problem with this Government ' s approach to the economy . rather than seek to support free enterprise and entrepreneurship in order to grow our economy , the Government seek state - lead intervention , and want to direct funding to government - approve investment . that be the wrong approach , as many hon . member have say this evening . on scale and asset allocation reform , I be concerned that the Government seem to believe that they , and regulator , should direct how pension fund invest , rather than scheme act in the good interest of their member — a matter raise by my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) . trustee who be direct to invest in asset by the Government or regulator may need to be protect by safe harbour provision in the event that their investment perform less well than alternative that they may have choose . have any consideration be give to such safe harbour in the Bill ? it be not clear why these reform be necessary . in his closing remark , will the Minister say why , give that policy such as the value - for - money test and small pot consolidation be already in progress , he feel that these additional requirement be need ? I be also concerned to find that Ministers propose make it a statutory requirement for scheme to follow a specific route when consider transfer into a superfund . Trustees have a fiduciary duty to their member — we have hear a lot about that in the debate — and this direction from Ministers run counter to that duty . will the Minister provide assurance to the House on those point ? turn to the sustainability of UK pension , I would welcome further clarity from Ministers on their proposal for power to pay a surplus to an employer . how confident be the Minister that the threshold set for the release of surplus be sufficient to protect member benefit ? that be particularly important , give that scheme surplus have emerge only recently . do the Minister plan to specify the authorised use for surplus return ? for example , will surplus be protect from be pay to overseas parent company ? I welcome the Government ' s desire to ensure that our pension system be sustainable and contribute to UK economic growth . I be just not as enthusiastic about some of the Government ' s instinct to deliver Government - lead investment , at the expense of market - lead growth . I look forward to scrutinise the Bill far as it progress . it be a real pleasure to speak on this Bill . pension and the regulation of private pension be increasingly of national interest . I believe that regulation be need , so I welcome the Bill . obviously the small print will become more apparent during its passage , but it be good that we be introduce the Bill . the Government ' s intention of ensure that people have a private pension to supplement their income when they eventually reach retirement be increasingly be realise . by and large , most young people — 22 million , I understand — have a pension . the Minister will remember the story I tell he about when I be 18 . I think I be right in say that I be the old person in this Chamber , so that be not yesterday . the fact be that pension adviser be almost unheard of then . I will tell hon . member who the good pension adviser I ever have be : my mum . when I be 18 , she take I down to the pension man in Ballywalter . she say , " you need a pension . " I say , " Mum , I ' m only 18 . what do I need a pension for ? " she say , " you ' re get a pension . " we know how it be : our mum tell to do something , and we just do it , so I get a pension on her advice . I end up with four pension over my work life , which be all beneficial . I do not understand the value of they until I come to the stage at which I be go to cash some of they in — I realise the value of they then . today , we have an opportunity to advise young people of the need for a pension . when it come to pension , not everybody have my mum , but everybody have somebody , or an equivalent through Government . let I give a quick story about my office staff . I employ six lady and one young fella . they be in their 20 , 30 , 40s , 50 and 60 . I will not get into trouble by name the staff in each bracket , but their approach to their pension varie by age bracket , and that be a fact ; they see it differently . listen to their discussion highlight to I the need to educate people on the importance of pay into their pension , because it be so important that we get this right . that be why the Bill be important : it be an opportunity to advise people . one member of my staff have two child at primary school . she highlight that she be pay an additional 5 % into her pension on the advice of her old colleague , only to find that the tax on her saving this year mean that she actually have less money in her account each month compare with last year . the first thing to go be not the kid ' piano lesson or hockey camp — she say that those experience shape her child ' s memory . the first reduction be scale back on her pension addition . People might say , " my goodness I ! that be not necessary , " but actually it be , if she want to preserve that lifestyle for her child . it seem that the tax on saving mean that one mum have make the choice to stop supplement her pension , and to instead sow the money into her child ' s live just now . that be not the aim of the Government or the Minister , but there be only so much that we can tax the middle class before they make cut that be not in their good interest . apart from a number of clause , this legislation do not directly affect Northern Ireland , but it should be note that accompany legislation and a number of legislative consent motion — statutory instrument — will come to this Chamber that will change the pension scheme in Northern Ireland . ultimately , what we discuss here and what happen through this Bill will come to we in Northern Ireland , and the Northern Ireland Assembly will bring provision in Northern Ireland in line with those here . I have therefore consider carefully the aim of this legislation , and whether I believe it will be effective in achieve those aim . the Minister have say that this Bill will fundamentally " prioritise high rate of return for pension saver , put more money into people ' s pocket in a host of different way . for the first time we will require pension scheme to prove they be value for money , focus their mindset on return over cost and protect saver from get stick in underperform scheme for year on end . " when we look at the issue , we understand the necessity for the Bill . in his introduction , the Minister refer to 13 million small pension pot float about in the UK pension system , with £ 1 , 000 in each . it seem logical to have a well pension system for people — I think it do , anyway , and maybe we all do . it be essential that the opt - out be iron - clothe , and I will give a reason why . one of my office staff member would not be comfortable with her pension pay into any company that test on animal , for example . another have say that she want the high return , full stop , so we must ensure that the Bill enable people to follow their moral obligation as well as get a return on their work . I be concerned that consumer will be tie down and face difficulty in leave pot , which be something that must be address . with that in mind , I welcome this Bill to regulate the pension market , but we must ensure that it do not become a mechanism for Government to control the private pension industry and direct pension pot into Government investment . we must ensure that this Bill simply protect pensioner , and I very much look forward to watch its progress . I call the shadow Minister . it have be a privilege to hear so many well - inform and consider speech this evening . I be sure we would all agree that there be clearly significant expertise in the Chamber . the heart of this Bill be people do the right thing by prepare for their future and save into their pension pot . with auto - enrolment have be introduce by the Conservatives in 2012 , there be now over 20 million employee save into a workplace pension . that be 88 % of eligible employee save into a pension and prepare for later in life , which be a great achievement that I hope everyone in this House can celebrate . however , while the number of people who be save have increase significantly , engagement have remain low , as we have hear this evening . Less than half of saver have review how much their pension be worth in the past 12 month , while over 94 % of pension saver be invest in a pension scheme ' s default investment strategy . with people take the right step and start to save for their retirement early thank to our action , we must now ensure that the pension market be work for they , so that they get the good return on their saving and ultimately have the comfortable and secure retirement for which they be plan . we have hear many contribution this evening . I will briefly mention the hon . member for Tamworth ( Sarah Edwards ) and my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) , both of whom give we lengthy and very detailed speech present both side of the argument . [ interruption . ] they be very enjoyable speech — that be not a criticism , just an observation of the way thing have go this evening . both the hon . Member and my right hon . friend clearly show the expertise that they garner early on in their career and express some legitimate concern , particularly about the consensus that there have perhaps be in the Chamber this evening . some point have be make show that that consensus be not entirely guarantee , certainly among Conservative Members . we support the principle behind the Bill — indeed , much of what we have hear build on the work that the Conservatives be do while we be in government . we want to ensure that poorly perform pension scheme be challenge , excessive administration cost be remove , and saver receive the good return on their investment . ultimately , that be how we will ensure more people have a comfortable retirement . however , we have concern about some specific measure in the Bill , which we will scrutinise far as it progress . in particular , we have significant concern about the reserve power that allow the Government to set percentage target for asset allocation in core default offer by define - contribution provider . in other word , a future Government could tell pension scheme where they must invest their fund , regardless of whether it deliver good return for saver . this potentially conflict with their fiduciary duty to act in the good interest of their member . while I know the Minister will stress that the Government do not intend to use those reserve power , that neither address concern about what a different future government could do nor explain why those power be be bring in . it could be ask why the reserve power be be create at all . we want to see more investment in the UK market . while this country be one of the large pension market in the world , only around 20 % of DC asset be invest in the UK . however , the solution should be to make domestic investment more attractive — to create opportunity that deliver well return for saver — not simply to mandate investment in asset that deliver low return . during our last term in office , we work with the industry to introduce the Mansion House reform as a voluntary agreement to boost investment in the UK , but this Bill go far — it could mandate such investment against the wish of the industry . similarly , the local government pension scheme will have a new duty to invest in the local economy . while that be understandable at face value , it raise concern about return on investment if there be not suitable local opportunity . we also have question about some of the Government ' s assumption , and would like to understand more about how they be reach and the evidence use . for example , why be the minimum value for megafund just £ 25 billion ? why be have few and large pension provider well ? we recognise the benefit of economy of scale , but what about competition and innovation ? it have also be raise by the industry that a significant number of detail be unknown , as they will come later in the form of regulation . can the Minister set out some more detail on when the various set of regulation will be publish , and whether that will be before the Bill have pass through Parliament ? finally , the Bill fail to cover a number of area , and we would like to understand why . concern about pension adequacy have be touch on this evening and whether people be save enough to have the security and dignity in retirement they deserve . auto - enrolment be a good start , but it will not be the only solution . indeed , lot of people be still not eligible . when we pass the Pensions ( Extension of Automatic Enrolment ) Act 2023 , the then Conservative Government confirm their intention to reduce the low age limit to 18 , as have be mention this evening . as yet , the current Labour Government have not do so . auto - enrolment do not apply to self - employ people , despite just 16 % of self - employ people actively save into a workplace or personal pension . the Bill do not look at whether people be save enough and early enough , and I would be grateful if the Minister could set out whether that be deliberate and whether further action will be take . I briefly draw the House ' s attention to my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as a serve councillor , but I hasten to add that unfortunately I be not a member of the local government pension scheme . sadly , I be elect after that provision be scrap , but an entire chapter be give over to the local government pension scheme in this Bill . indeed , it be a key element , enable local authority to use pension scheme to invest in their local economy . however , as with much of the legislation be take through Parliament at the moment , the who , what and when remain unanswered . without the english devolution Bill before we , for example , we be not entirely clear on what form local government will take , nor entirely clear on how compatible this Bill be with that forthcoming local government legislation . we be in effect be ask to legislate on a moveable feast . indeed , there be likely to be a considerable transition timetable for local government change , which all raise question about how the local government reorganisation transition fit in with the plan in the Bill . follow on from the comment of the hon . member for Truro and Falmouth ( Jayne Kirkham ) , how will asset pool work under local government reorganisation ? who get the potential investment benefit or spend power , and where do all that investment take place ? the Bill also fail to mention any reform to the local government pension scheme , which reach a record surplus of £ 45 billion in June 2024 . one reason for that might be that it be be use to offset Government debt under the Chancellor ' s current fiscal rule , which use public sector net financial liability to measure that debt . that be a huge amount of money in local government term , and it be not go towards local service , business support or regional project . can the Minister confirm whether the Government intend to reform the local government pension scheme beyond the measure outline in the Bill ? finally on the local government pension scheme , I look forward to see more detail as to how newly create asset pool will work in practice with the local government pension scheme . local government treasury management over recent year have see local authority take advantage of the investment opportunity available to they to acquire property and the like , but often some distance from their local authority . that be something to tease out in Committee , but when the Government state that they wish local authority to have finance available to invest locally to bring economic growth , what do " local " look like ? finally , can the Minister confirm that fiduciary rule regard investment and how they be assess will prevail go forward ? overall , we will support a Bill that reduce administration cost , remove complexity for saver and maximise value for member , ultimately help people who take the right action to save for their retirement to live in comfort and dignity . while this Bill make the start , there be more to do to get it right , and we look forward to work with the Government to achieve that . there be plenty of food for thought for amendment to take we forward . I call the shadow Minister . at the outset , I take the opportunity to declare my own interest . unlike the hon . member for South West Devon ( Rebecca Smith ) , I be elect prior to Lord Cameron ejecting councillor from the local government pension scheme . as a former member of Trafford metropolitan borough council , I also have saving in the local government pension scheme . I be therefore set to benefit from the improved governance of the lgps initiate by the Bill . these measure be testament to our dedication to build a resilient , efficient and fair pension system , galvanise and create the potential to boost our economy at every opportunity . it be our aim to build a future in which every saver can look forward to a secure and prosperous retirement . I welcome the broad , if not entirely universal , support for the Bill . the open discussion in which we have engage today be important because , as a responsible government , we want the House to be assure that the new power in the Bill come with appropriate mitigation . we understand that member will have question , and I have listen carefully to those that have be raise . I remind everyone that the highly fragmented pension framework have not serve saver well , and there be a need for improvement as both the industry and saver demand a well service . the Bill go to the core of what be need , provide big solution to the big problem that be undermine so much potential for saver and the economy . let I now turn to some of the comment and query that have arise throughout the debate . I thank my hon . friend the Members for Tamworth ( Sarah Edwards ) , for Luton South and South Bedfordshire ( Rachel Hopkins ) , for Buckingham and Bletchley ( Callum Anderson ) , for Poole ( Neil Duncan - Jordan ) , for Truro and Falmouth ( Jayne Kirkham ) and for Glasgow East ( John Grady ) for speak in favour of some element in the Bill , and for their recognition of the investment and growth opportunity that it can unleash . I be grateful for the constructive support and consensus that we hear from both the hon . member for Wyre Forest ( Mark Garnier ) , who open the debate for the Opposition , and the hon . member for South West Devon , who close it . they be right to mention the specular success of automatic enrolment , but that be half the job , as point out by the Pensions Minister , and I think the hon . member for South West Devon acknowledge that we now need to move on to the press task of deal with pension adequacy , which will be take forward by the pension review . they be also right to refer to the complexity and fragmentation of pension pot . I welcome the support from the hon . member for Wyre Forest for the long - await pension dashboard , and be particularly pleased to hear of his support for change in the local government pension scheme , although he express concern about certain part of the Bill and the potential for prop up a fail scheme that arise from those change . let I reassure he that no cross - subsidise between administer authority would be cause by any change make by the Bill . as for the question of safeguard in respect of surplus release , we can not stop share buy - back and the like , but we have confidence in the ability of trustee to adhere to their fiduciary duty . I understand that mandation have give rise to the fundamental objection of not just the hon . Gentleman but a number of other speaker , but I do not believe that it undermine fiduciary duty , and I do not agree with that analysis . the Bill contain clear safeguard that be consistent with those duty , not least in clause 38 , which refer to an opt - out in the event of material detriment to member of a fund . the hon . Gentleman also raise question relate to gilt ; we believe that nothing in the Bill would undermine a well - function gilt market . however , as I have say , I welcome the broad support for the Bill , particularly with regard to value for money , small pot , guide retirement product and terminal illness change . I want to be clear — so that the House be clear — about the opt - out to which both Ministers have refer . be it a correct interpretation to say that it be not an opt - out at the discretion of the trustee of the fund , and that the Bill require they to apply to the regulator with evidence for the regulator to make a decision to grant they the ability to opt out ? the idea that trustee be somehow free to make a decision in the interest of the fund be not actually correct , be it ? the right hon . Gentleman be correct in his interpretation , although I do not entirely agree with his characterisation . it be , I think , perfectly reasonable that we would ask trustee to explain how they feel that what be propose would be to the detriment of their scheme member . I welcome the support of the liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) , for many of the general proposal in the Bill . I entirely agree with his comment about the need to give saver the good possible advice and protection . I also agree with what he say about the opportunity to deliver further investment in our economy . as for social housing , which other also raise , he will know that many pension scheme already make such investment , and I certainly support their continue to do so . we then hear an excellent speech from my hon . friend the Member for Tamworth . I particularly welcome her comment on the value - for - money change , and she be absolutely correct to highlight the importance of look at scheme in the round , not just on cost . on the pipeline of investment that she set out , I hope she be reassure by some of the step that the Government be take — for instance , through the Planning and Infrastructure Bill — to ensure that there be a range of exciting major project , such a reservoir and house , that people will be able to invest in . the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) be certainly correct to say that he puncture the air of consensus in outline his reservation . I know that my hon . friend the Pensions Minister have agree to have a conversation with the right hon . member next week , and I hope that he will find that incredibly helpful . clearly , it be not for I to comment on whether this should be a hybrid bill . on the question of megafund , he be right that not all large scheme provide a well return , but the evidence show that while that be not always the case , they do see well return on average . that be an important point . the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) be correct to raise how long we have be wait for the pension dashboard , and I be similarly excited and anticipate its arrival . I promise that it will be worth the wait when it finally arrive . on her point about the scope of the Bill , the pension review will take forward a number of the issue on which she and other Members say the Bill could have go far . the pension review be under way , and we will say more about that incredibly soon . on the pension review , there be a massive cross - party consensus that there be an issue with its adequacy , and we want to see it tackle . will Ministers agree to take this forward in as cross - party a way as possible ? we all care strongly about it . this matter be important to everybody in this House , because it be important to the constituent of everybody in this House . I would be very open to ensure that member of this House be able to feed as much as possible into the pension review . it be an incredibly important piece of work . I return to the question of my age . as a millennial , I be terrify of admit that I have now reach an age when I should be think about my pension , have just turn 40 . in any event , some of the work around the consolidation of small pot and so forth will help people . a number of member have ask about the balance of the distribution of any surplus release , and it be ultimately for trustee to decide on that balance . on the point make by the hon . member for Aberdeen North about potential guidance come forward — the hon . member for Mid Bedfordshire ( Blake Stephenson ) touch on this as well — that be something that I will discuss with the Minister for Pensions . it may well be tease out in Committee . I hope that the hon . member for Spelthorne ( Lincoln Jopp ) will be a member of the Bill Committee and continue the dialogue with the Minister for Pensions . I be always keen to find volunteer , and I hope that he will put himself forward . on the question of regulatory decision making , I hope that the Pensions Regulator have hear what he say about pace . on the issue of divestment from fund that invest in fossil fuel and so forth , it be a matter for trustee . individual flexibility on investment be a cornerstone of the system , but we be consult on UK sustainability reporting standard and on transition plan . finally , we hear from the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) — we always save the good for last . I be very grateful for his support for the Bill . if he be not 18 yesterday , I be sure it be the day before . none the less , I wish that everybody have a mum like his . we may not have have some of the challenge with the adequacy of people ' s pension have they all receive such superb advice from their parent at the age of 18 . today we embark on a transformative journey with this Pension Schemes Bill . this legislation underscore our readiness to deliver fundamental change to the pension landscape , an endeavour that be not only urgent , but essential for drive a future in which saver and , indeed , our economy can derive the benefit of a well organised , less fragmented and easy to navigate pension system , and I be pleased by the widespread support for the Bill across the House . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . pension Schemes Bill ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Pension Schemes Bill : Committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Public Bill Committee ( 2 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on Thursday 23 October 2025 . ( 3 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . consideration and Third Reading ( 4 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which those proceeding be commence . ( 5 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding on consideration and Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Andrew Western . ) question agree to . Pension Schemes Bill ( Money ) king ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Pension Schemes Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of — ( a ) any expenditure incur under or by virtue of the Act by the Secretary of State , and ( b ) any increase attributable to the Act in the sum payable under or by virtue of any other Act out of money so provide . — ( Andrew Western . ) question agree to . Pension Schemes Bill ( Ways and Means ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Pension Schemes Bill , it be expedient to authorise — ( a ) the levying of charge under the Pension Schemes Act 1993 for the purpose of meet any increase in the expenditure of the Pensions Regulator attributable to the Act ; ( b ) the amendment of section 177 ( 5 ) of the Pensions Act 2004 so as to increase the limit in that provision on the amount that may be raise by pension protection levy impose by the Board of the Pension Protection Fund . — ( Andrew Western . ) question agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Environmental Protection that the draft Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment ( Amendment , etc . ) regulation 2025 , which be lay before this House on 4 June , be approve . — ( Anna McMorrin . ) question agree to . delegate Legislation ( Committees ) Financial Assistance to Industry Ordered , that the Motion in the name of Sarah Jones relate to Financial Assistance to Industry shall be treat as if it relate to an instrument subject to the provision of Standing Order no . 118 ( Delegated Legislation Committees ) in respect of which notice have be give that the instrument be approve . — ( Anna McMorrin . ) Petition - Harrogate Spring Water money for Harrogate Harrogate Spring Water pay a 0 . 5 % levy on its revenue annually . this use to go to Harrogate borough council for the benefit of the local area , but follow local government reorganisation , it now go to North Yorkshire council . this be a key campaign during the Harrogate town council election , when the Liberal Democrats win an overwhelming majority on a platform that this levy should go to the new Harrogate town council . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons call on North Yorkshire council to return the money for the use of the citizen of Harrogate , as be always intend . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of Harrogate , declare that the Harrogate Springs Water Levy of 0 . 5 % of profit should be return for the benefit of the people of Harrogate through the newly create Harrogate Town Council . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons call on North Yorkshire Council to return the money for the use of the citizen of Harrogate as be always intend . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003089 ] SEND provision : London Borough of Barking and Dagenham Motion make and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Anna McMorrin . ) I have secure this Adjournment debate to discuss the provision of special educational need and disability in the London borough of Barking and Dagenham , an area that I be honour to partially represent alongside my hon . friend the Member for Barking ( Nesil Caliskan ) . the backdrop to this debate be multifacete , but my focus this evening be specifically on the pressure face provision for child and young people . there be currently over 5 , 500 child and young people in Barking and Dagenham school who require SEN support . as of January 2025 , 3 , 111 of these young people have an education , health and care plan — or EHCP , as they be more commonly refer to — with the follow breakdown : 12 at nursery level ; 1 , 350 at primary ; 946 at secondary ; 480 post - 16 ; and 323 post - 19 . this clearly highlight that present pressure be feel most acutely across primary and secondary school in Barking and Dagenham . in 2022 , request for EHCP assessment see a rise of 100 % , an increase four time the national average , and in April 2025 there be 1 , 000 more child with ehcp in the borough compare with January 2023 , which be a 50 % increase over 15 month . since these spike , the level of demand have remain high , with 500 to 600 new request every year . this be partly due to population growth and churn , with about 26 , 000 additional resident since 2014 , and a similar number of about 18 % churn . it be also worth note that Barking and Dagenham still offer some of the cheap housing option in London , which account for the sheer scale of the population growth . in 2024 , 150 child and young people with exist ehcp move into , or be place in , Barking and Dagenham from other borough , with around 40 % require a specialist placement . staff work in the education , health and care team at Barking and Dagenham council be recording caseload of 200 to 300 per staff member , which be just not sustainable as a working model . I commend the hon . Lady for bring this issue forward ; she be right to do so . do she agree that the progress on SEN action have show how early intervention with a classroom assistant can make all the difference for many child , and that it be essential that the funding for teaching assistant be retain to ensure that the child in both St Joseph ' s primary school in Dagenham and St Finian ' s primary school in Newtownards have access to early intervention support and a bright future ? the hon . Gentleman make some very good point . the Minister be discuss that issue this afternoon and tomorrow my hon . friend the Member for Barking ( Nesil Caliskan ) will have a debate on that very point . alongside that , the grow pressure in the health system and the shortage of educational psychologist , speech and language therapist and occupational therapist all serve to make the issue bad . as it currently stand , there be very little likelihood that the EHC team will be able to meet the demand in Barking and Dagenham . I hear the heartbreaking story from Barking and Dagenham about the huge demand for SEND provision and the difficulty in meet it . in Surrey , we have similarly heartbreake case of child with autism who can not move out of mainstream school because the capacity be not there . as a result , one of my constituent be get bully terribly and the council have refuse to fund his place in a specialist school . but that story be not unique in Surrey or in Barking and Dagenham . despite that , the county council leader , Tim Oliver , claim that the vast majority of SEND family in Surrey be happy with their support . that be despite the council suppress a survey of 1 , 000 parent for six month — order . the hon . Gentleman ' s intervention be far too long . as the Adjournment start before 10 o ' clock , he will of course be free to make a speech . I thank the hon . gentleman for his point . that be happen against a backdrop of 14 year with no investment for council and they be really struggle . on behalf of the local authority , I urge the Department for Education to invest more in the development of truly inclusive school , well - fund and resource , so that Barking and Dagenham can increase the provision of SEND support in a mainstream setting . if the local authority could ensure a high standard of support through on - site additionally resource provision and other mainstream setting , that would reassure the parent of child with SEND that their child ' s educational need will be meet without reliance on an EHCP . I think that would help to significantly reduce stress and anxiety , which the hon . Gentleman allude to , for thousand of people in our borough . have speak to many parent of child with SEND across my constituency , I know that they have to fight for everything and that in most case they get little to no support at present without an EHCP in place . the system be too convoluted , and it do not work for parent , child or local authority . More need to be do to streamline the assessment process , so that parent be not jump through hoop for month on end , and that the good possible care and educational support can be deliver without the constant battle that parent currently face . when consider the provision of service in Barking and Dagenham , we must also take account of the level of deprivation and the impact that have on the level of need . bark and Dagenham have the 21st high deprivation score of the 317 local authority in England , with 62 % of household in the borough have at least one measure of deprivation as measure on the index of multiple deprivation . furthermore , 46 % of child in Barking and Dagenham be estimate to live in poverty , which be the third high across England and Wales . deprivation on such a scale mean that we have some of the poor health outcome in London , and 30 % of all household in the borough be home to a resident with some form of disability that require a support service . the council be try really hard to find innovative mean to support the grow demand for service in the face of mount financial pressure , but it simply do not have the resource to establish long - term stability in that respect . barking and Dagenham have one of the high proportion of additional resource provision in the country , with almost a third of school in the borough host an ARP . motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Anna McMorrin . ) there be now 33 primary and secondary arp in the borough , compare with just 14 a decade ago . over that period , the number of child who rely on the service have increase from around 180 to 450 . despite the creation of 230 specialist place over a four - year period , with 90 more plan by September this year , thereby increase the proportion of child with SEND in mainstream school , the local authority still face a monumental challenge to provide enough place to support the need of all the child who require they . over the past decade , the local authority have work diligently to ensure that our school be inclusive , and have aim to place child and young people with SEND in local mainstream school where possible . this have result in many of those child go on to achieve very well . take this approach have enable the council to manage the dedicated school grant high need block within budget , despite chronic underfunding over the past 14 year under the previous Government — so much so that in 2024 , Barking and Dagenham be recognise for effective practice and reference in a what Works in SEND publication release by the Isos Partnership . to a degree , the local authority be a victim of its own success in this area . when low housing cost be combine with exceptional SEND provision that deliver good educational outcome , be it any wonder that the parent of child with complex need be move to Barking and Dagenham ? over the year , I have hear many story from constituent who have move to the area specifically for that reason . Most come from other London borough , but some be from as far afield as Cornwall . at this point , I would like to personally thank the Secretary of State for Education for her visit to Becontree primary school early this year . the visit attract positive press for our SEND provision , and highlight the inclusive approach to SEND education in Barking and Dagenham school . from an outside perspective , give the sterling service provide , it might seem that the concern and pressure that the local authority and I have portray be be overstate , yet under the surface the council be face a perfect storm of increase demand and significant funding shortfall . in the last financial year , Barking and Dagenham face a significant overspend , which be cover use council reserve . the local authority have the capacity to balance the budget in that way for only one year . although the £ 1 billion of additional Government funding for the high need block in 2025 - 26 be welcome , it do not fully address the pressure in Barking and Dagenham . the £ 5 . 3 million uplift serve only to cover the current in - year demand , without consideration of the significant level of growth in the borough . it be clear to I that the high need block funding allocation formula need to be review and update to ensure that it be evidence base and well target . the high need block funding stream be still to an extent determine by historical datum , and do not reflect the change pattern of need in London , so borough like Barking and Dagenham find themselves underfunde compare with inner - London borough , while manage the increase demand from family who have move out of well fund inner - London area . the crisis in SEND provision in early year and education be not due to a lack of good intent , but be perpetuate through long - term under - investment , the fragmentation of service and a degree of inflexibility that the last Government build into the system . I be glad the hon . Lady recognise the funding disparity between inner Greater London and outer Greater London . she will be aware of the DABD charity , which be base in her constituency . it provide special educational need support for young child during the summer , Christmas and Easter term , but the charity have be defunde , so it can not carry on its activity for young people base in the London borough of Havering , which the hon . Lady also represent . will she join I in call for Havering council to ensure that that funding continue so that those child can get the benefit the charity provide ? I thank the hon . Gentleman . my seat cover two council , and I always want the good outcome for my constituent . I agree with he and would be happy to do that . council be on the frontline of service delivery in Britain and although this debate be not about broad service funding , I must take this opportunity to thank the government and to welcome the introduction of the recovery grant as part of the most recent local government funding settlement — a move that mark a significant step change from the previous Administration . however , I return to the subject of SEND provision and funding allocation , which desperately need a similar step change , as I begin to conclude my contribution . the London borough of Barking and Dagenham be do everything that the Government be ask of it , yet we be still work to a system build by the Conservatives . the last Government allocate safety valve funding base on the scale of the deficit rather than the scale of need . the safety valve agreement essentially mean that a local authority must cut its spending to meet target ; in return , it get a contribution towards its overspend . that mean that our local authority , have work to implement inclusive strategy , often through innovative mean , to reduce pressure on the high need budget , get nothing from that funding stream . in comparison , authority such as Kent , which have far less deprivation and need , have receive in excess of £ 42 . 6 million since 2023 - 24 . a fraction of that money would help Barking and Dagenham maintain and progress the inclusive service it have work so hard to deliver over the past decade . I must say that it be wonderful to see our inclusive SEND provision under the national spotlight , be champion by Ministers , but it still beggar belief that under the current system , if a local authority manage to fly in the face of low expectation and deliver an exemplary service , it be penalise within the safety valve programme . I hope that , as the Government get to grip with the SEND crisis face local authority in the come year , a process of co - production and consultation will lead to a delivery model that incentivise the inclusive approach take in Barking and Dagenham . local authority such as ours be desperately call for a national funding formula that allocate resource base on evidence and need , bring school , health partner , parent of child with SEND , and the council together . I know that we can build a service that provide the good possible start in life and outstanding educational outcome for the most disadvantaged young people in our community . I end by repeat the Government ' s mantra from last July : " it ' s time for change " . I be move by the speech just make by the hon . member for Dagenham and Rainham ( Margaret Mullane ) and hearten to hear about the effectiveness of SEND provision in Barking and Dagenham . it be so important that we have effective example of that in the country — particularly at the moment , when the Government be consider their national SEND provision . it be encouraging for I to hear that . from my experience in my constituency , a vital part of what we have to do be tackle the culture of dishonesty that certainly exist in my local authority — I do not know about elsewhere . that culture be a key barrier to effectively address SEND provision . the issue could not be more serious . constituent of mine — suicidal child with autism — be repeatedly deny the support that be their right . desperate parent come to I , their MP , try to beg the council to do its duty . the level of dishonesty be hard to exaggerate . Surrey have the high level of complaint to tribunal in the country . it cover that up for over 14 month from its own internal council scrutiny committee . the county council leader then deny that in a formal write response to the Liberal Democrat Members of Parliament in Surrey . the council ' s next trick , as report by ITV , be to reclassify complaint as " inquiry " , to try to manipulate its complaint volume . it then deny that there be a problem at all and say that the problem be , in fact , that Surrey parent be " too articulate " . most recently , the county council leader say in the annual general meeting that " the vast majority " of Surrey SEND parent have a good experience of SEND . that be despite they suppress for six month a survey of 1 , 000 SEND parent in which only 16 % say that they trust the county council on SEND and only 21 % say that they trust case officer to act in the good interest of their child . it be a matter of extreme concern for I that the Government be put so much faith in local authority on SEND reform when , certainly in my case , they be so manifestly dishonest . I be particularly worried about Surrey , because the county council leader be chairman of the County Councils Network and so have major influence over SEND reform across the country . I be also worried about the fact that local authority be say that the way to solve the SEND crisis be to water down parent ' right to apply for an EHCP . there be many thing wrong with the SEND system , but that be the one thing parent do have confidence in . it may take far too long to get an ehcp , but at least they have their legal right and can go to tribunal . I desperately hope that the Government be not go to water down their commitment and that they will respond to the call of my hon . friend the Member for Surrey Heath ( Dr Pinkerton ) for an investigation into Surrey county council . only then will my constituent be able to get the justice that they deserve and the opportunity that they desperately need . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Dagenham and Rainham ( Margaret Mullane ) for secure this crucial debate . child with special educational need have just as much potential as other child , and they deserve to have that potential nurture . but for borough such as Barking and Dagenham , there be an urgent problem with SEND provision . as my hon . friend the Member for Dagenham and Rainham have eloquently describe , chronic underfunding and under - resourcing of vital SEND service have lead to a critical situation whereby child be not get the support that they need and parent be face a constant battle and excessive waiting time to secure any support for their child . last year in the borough , only 50 % of decision on EHCP need assessment be make within six week , the rest take much long . I know that this be a problem face all borough , but it be particularly acute in Barking and Dagenham , which have a high proportion of people apply for EHCP need assessment than other borough . in my constituency , which be home to the borough of both Redbridge and Barking and Dagenham , the rate of disability be far high in ward such as Marks Gate , which be the only ward in Ilford South that fall under Barking and Dagenham . against this backdrop of underfunding and comparatively high demand , Barking and Dagenham have a lot to be proud of . as my hon . friend the Member for Dagenham and Rainham say , in 2024 the borough be recognise for effective practice in a report by what Works in SEND . however , there be some problem that good practice and perseverance can not fix . the crisis in SEND stem from the wide issue of change demographic and an outdated funding formula that have not keep up . Ilford South and the borough of Barking and Dagenham and Redbridge may be outer - london area , but they be face inner - London problem . the hon . member mention Barking and Dagenham and Redbridge , but Havering be also in outer Greater London , and Marks Gate be next to Collier row , as he know . we be all underfunde . there be a total disparity when it come to funding for outer Greater London area . will the hon . member back my ongoing campaign for fair funding not only for special educational need but for a range of area , because our borough on the edge of London and in Essex constituency which fall within Greater London be not get our fair share of resource ? I thank the hon . member for raise that point . as a matter of fact , as leader of Redbridge council , I campaign for many year for outer London funding to be fair . outer London have inner - London problem , but we be not get our fair share of funding . I would be happy to get involve on the funding need of outer London . I mention Barking and Dagenham and Redbridge because my constituency fall in both of they , but I agree that other outer London borough such as Havering will suffer similar consequence . our outer - London borough face inner - London problem that diminutive outer - London funding package can not fix . if we be to fully support all child by provide they with the tailored support that they need , and if we be to unlock their potential , we need serious reform . I stand with my hon . friend the Member for Dagenham and Rainham in call for three key reform . first , we need a change to the outdated funding formula that put borough such as Barking and Dagenham , Redbridge and Havering on the back foot . secondly , we need more funding for additionally resource provision , so that child with special educational need can be support in mainstream school , and can reap the benefit of learn in a mainstream environment — benefit that include a reduction in emotional distress , and well educational outcome — while teacher be give the resource they need . thirdly , we need a more streamlined process of need assessment , so that parent be not leave alone to fight for the provision that their child need and deserve . every child have the right to thrive , to achieve their dream , and to be support in their environment , even if they learn a little differently , but SEND provision be struggle . we owe it to child to fix the system . we owe it to their parent to support their child to thrive . congratulation to my hon . friend the Member for Dagenham and Rainham ( Margaret Mullane ) on secure this debate on an incredibly important subject . I know that she and other hon . member in the Chamber have an interest in support family in their constituency in navigate the special educational need system ; hon . member have convey compellingly just how complex it can be . in her powerful speech , my hon . Friend make clear her interest in the subject , and her passion for the improvement that need to be make . I reassure hon . member that improve the SEND system be a priority for the Government . we want all child to feel that they belong in a mainstream setting , if that be the good place for they to have their need meet . we want they to receive the right support , succeed in their education , and lead happy , healthy and productive adult life . we know that be possible . we have see it in innovative example across the country , include when the Secretary of State visit Becontree primary school in Dagenham in December . it be hearten to hear my hon . friend ' s account of the practice in Barking and Dagenham , but much more need to be do to improve the system for child and their family , and to ensure consistent good practice in every part of the country . I be grateful to the hon . member for Dorking and Horley ( Chris Coghlan ) and my hon . friend the Member for Ilford South ( Jas Athwal ) for their contribution . it be clear that there be much share interest in this issue , and their contribution be an important part of this timely debate . every child , regardless of their need , deserve the opportunity to achieve , thrive and succeed . we be absolutely clear that the system be too difficult for parent , carer and young people to navigate , and it be simply not deliver the outcome that we want . in the 2023 - 24 academic year , more than 1 , 800 SEND child in Surrey be out of school for more than a third of the time . what step be the Minister take to ensure that promise school be deliver ? I think in particular of the Betchwood Vale academy SEND school in my constituency . I know the hon . Gentleman care passionately about this issue , and he be clearly keen to see the expansion of provision . as he know , we be invest in the capital estate in the round , and support mainstream school to expand . we have already give local authority the funding , and we hope that they be work with their local school to increase capacity . obviously , the building of any additional school be consider in the light of that , because we need to ensure that the right provision be available for the child who need it . we be give close consideration to that , and be work closely with local authority , whose duty it be to make sure that they have the place to meet those need . we have announce that the detail of our long - term approach to SEND reform will be set out in the school White Paper in the autumn . we be not waste any time on this . we be already work to ensure that child and young people get the support they need ; we be build a robust evidence base about what work to drive inclusive education , and we be create the expert advisory group for inclusion , lead by Tom Rees . we be introduce new regional improvement for standard and excellence — rise — adviser , who will work with mainstream school to ensure that they become more inclusive . we be extend pin — partnership for inclusion of neurodiversity in school — to a further cohort of mainstream primary school , so that we build teacher and staff capacity to identify , and well meet , the need of neurodivergent child in mainstream school setting . we be prioritise early intervention and inclusive provision in mainstream setting , because early intervention prevent unmet need from escalate , and be the good way to support all child and young people to achieve their goal alongside their peer . we be commit to work with the sector and our partner to ensure that our approach be fully plan , and develop in partnership with family , stakeholder and the entire sector , which need to deliver these reform . the number of education , health and care plan have increase each year since their introduction in 2014 , with over 630 , 000 child and young people have an EHCP as of January 2025 . over time , flaw and lack of capacity in the system to meet low - level need have put additional strain on specialist service . that have have a really detrimental impact on the experience of access support through the EHCP process , and have contribute to push up cost and create an increasingly unsustainable system . the late datum show that in 2024 , just over 46 % of new ehcp be issue within the 20 - week timeframe . the Government want to ensure that EHC need assessment be progress promptly , and that plan be issue quickly to provide child and young people with the support that they need to achieve positive outcome . independently commission insight publish last year show that extensive improvement to the system use early intervention and well resourcing of mainstream school could have a significant impact , with more child and young people have their need meet without an EHCP , and in a mainstream setting , rather than in a specialist placement . we have listen to parent , local authority colleague and partner right across education , health and social care . we be consider really carefully how to improve the EHCP process for family , and be reflect on what practice could or should be make consistent nationally . child and young people with SEND frequently require access to additional support from a broad , specialist workforce right across education , health and care . to support the demand , in partnership with NHS England , we be fund early language support for every child : elsec . this be trialle new way of work to well identify and support child with speech , language and communication need in their early year and at primary school . I have see this in practice , and see the difference it make to not just the child who participate in the programme and clearly thrive as a result , but the teaching workforce , who grow in confidence and in their ability to untap and unlock child ' s learn . it be have a great impact , and we be keen to see the result of the pilot , the roll - out , and the impact take root in school . continue to ensure a pipeline of speech and language therapist be essential . that be why we have introduce a speech and language degree apprenticeship . it be in its third year of delivery , and it offer a really excellent alternative pathway to the traditional degree route into a successful career as a speech and language therapist . of course , we need many more such therapist . it take a vast workforce , from teacher to teaching assistant , and from early year educator to ally health professional , to help child and young people thrive , and we be invest in each of those area to improve outcome and experience across the country . I be aware of the ten - minute rule Bill sponsor by my hon . friend the Member for Dagenham and Rainham , which be on this very issue , and be due to be present in the House tomorrow . high - quality teaching be central to ensure that pupil with SEND be give the good possible opportunity to achieve in their education , so to support teacher , we be implement high - quality teacher development . it begin with their initial teacher training , continue into their early teaching career , and carry on right through to middle and senior leadership . we want to offer professional development to all teacher , so that they have the skill to support all pupil to succeed , include those with SEND . the partnership for inclusion of neurodiversity in school be also deploy health and education specialist in the workforce to upskill primary school , so that they can support neurodivergent child . the support operate on a whole - school level and be not reliant on a diagnosis . that support be there for all child , depend on their need . local authority need support with their educational psychology service , and we be invest over £ 21 million to train 400 more educational psychologist . as these trainee complete their study , they will be able to join the workforce and support local authority education service , include by contribute to statutory assessment . we know those assessment be a big challenge , and workforce shortage be a huge barrier to deliver our ambition for an inclusive mainstream education system . a lot of positive thing be be say that will be welcome on all side of the House , but do the Minister acknowledge the concern of the hon . member for Dagenham and Rainham ( Margaret Mullane ) and for Ilford South ( Jas Athwal ) and I about the huge disparity in funding for borough such as Barking and Dagenham , Redbridge , and Havering , in particular ? we be not get our fair share . will she please help outer - London borough get a fair share of the cake , because at the moment that be simply not happen ? I recognise the challenge that the hon . member and other have set out . we be look at the national funding formula . obviously , this can not happen as fast as one might want , because it be important to maintain stability in the system , and change from year to year can create challenge for local authority and school . we have to look at the system carefully and introduce any change in a careful and consider way , and that be what we be do . we be take on board the representation that we be receive about the funding currently in the system . one other area that we be focus on be capital funding to expand the estate . many mainstream setting be go above and beyond to deliver specialist provision , but we want to ensure that all capacity be maximise . where a local authority identify a school that could provide more place or make more provision , we need to ensure that it have the capital to support that . that be why we have allocate £ 740 million for the 2025 - 26 year to deliver those additional place in mainstream and special school and other specialist setting , or to adapt building to make they more accessible and more appropriate for provide inclusive mainstream education . the Department ' s spending review have confirm the funding for reform of the SEND system ; we will set out the detail in the White Paper in the autumn . we recognise that local authority will need support during the transition to a reform SEND system , so we will commence a phase transition . we will work with local authority to manage their budget and deficit . that will come alongside an extension to the dedicated school grant statutory override up until the 2027 - 28 financial year , because we recognise the time it will take to put this right . we will provide more detail on this by the end of the year . we be run out of time , but I want to thank my hon . friend the Member for Dagenham and Rainham again for bring this matter forward , and to thank all who have contribute to the debate . we have make a clear commitment to address the challenge , so that we can help child and young people to achieve and thrive . I be determined that progress will be make on this issue . I conclude by recognise all those who work in our education , health and care system , and who work for our child and young people with SEND in Barking and Dagenham , and right across the country . we all want to deliver the good for child and young people , include those with SEND , so that they have the good start in life ; and we want to prepare they for life , work and the future . the Government will continue to work to that end . question put and agree to . House adjourn .