may I begin by welcome the new Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my hon . friend the Member for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) , to her place ? this have be a good and full debate . it have , in large part , be fairly well - inform , although I think the quality of the offering from behind I be a little ahead of that from in front . none the less , it have be a good and passionate debate . no effort today be in any way well than that of my hon . friend the Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Steve Tuckwell ) , who give we a virtuoso example of a maiden speech . he refer to the fact that it be in his constituency that Winston Churchill first utter the immortal word , " never in the field of human conflict be so much owe by so many to so few . " of course , Churchill then repeat that in this Chamber , but not with the same eloquence as my hon . friend , and he certainly do not manage to squeeze in a tribute to the Middlesex Arms , my hon . friend ' s local pub , where I be sure a free beer await he — that be probably where he be at this very moment . now that I too , in addition to he , have mention his local pub , I hope that a second pint await he . there be certain thing that the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Leicester West ( Liz Kendall ) , and I can agree on , and smoking be one of they . I be interested to learn that she be a former smoker . they always say that former smoker have a passionate desire to stop other people smoke , and she certainly demonstrate that . we know that one in four cancer be cause by smoking . as a father of three young daughter , vaping be of great concern to I personally , and I be pleased to see the reference in the King ' s Speech to get on top of those kind of product and the way in which they be retail . the hon . Lady also mention mental health , as do many of this afternoon ' s speaker . we have say that we will come forward with a mental health Bill if parliamentary time allow , and of course that do not mean we have not already do a very great deal in exactly that space , or will not do a great deal far . some £ 2 billion of extra funding be already go into mental healthcare compare with four year ago , with a 20 % increase in staffing since 2010 . it do not stop there : we will also be bring forward mental health hospital and 100 specialist ambulance .