with permission , Mr Deputy Speaker , I would like to make a statement on the continue work to fix building with unsafe cladding across England , and the Government ' s increase determination to enforce against those who fail to take responsibility . since the beginning of 2023 , there have be a step change in all aspect of remediation in England , from a limited programme to full coverage of all residential building over 11 metre ; from developer not take responsibility to their now be responsible for £ 3 billion of remediation across more than 1 , 500 building ; from just over 1 , 600 building in remediation programme last year to over 4 , 000 now ; from 783 building have start or complete work in February 2023 to over 1 , 800 now ; and from only 461 have complete last February to 863 now . every month more building be identify , and more be begin and complete work . that mean that for some , albeit not all , the end be in sight . from the start , we have prioritise the remediation of the high risk building . ninety - eight per cent of high - rise building with the most dangerous Grenfell - style aluminium composite material cladding have either start or complete work . of the 10 occupy building remain , two will start work this month and enforcement be be take against a further six . substantial progress can also be see for building over 18 metre , with over half of know building have either start or complete work . the much more extensive work require for building between 11 metre and 18 metre be well under way . since the full launch of the cladding safety scheme last July , over 400 building in the scheme have live application . Grant funding agreement have be complete or be be sign for 152 building , and work have start on site for the first building . a further 4 , 000 building be be investigate and , where necessary , will be invite to apply to the scheme in the month ahead . further transparency be be bring to the social housing sector . register provider report that work have start on 525 building as of the end of November 2023 , up from 394 at the end of August 2023 . a further 200 have now be complete . for the first time , last Thursday we publish detailed information on a provider - by - provider basis , which will be update quarterly to ensure that resident can track what their individual provider be do on remediation . while many building be be fix or , well still , have complete remediation , there remain a reduce core of building owner who continue to hold up remediation . that be unacceptable . the Government continue to do whatever be necessary to change that . all building owner must step up , do the right thing and fix their building without delay , or face the consequence of their inaction . the Government be lead the way on enforcement , with strategic intervention by our recovery strategy unit target the most egregious actor who be unwilling to make their building safe . the RSU be key to force Wallace Estates to agree to four remediation order , ensure that 400 leaseholder will be safe in their home . our legal action force Grey GR , a subsidiary of Railpen , to fix building safety defect at Galbraith House within three week . the first trial against Grey GR for Vista Tower in Stevenage be imminent . nine remediation contribution order be take out against three further organisation last week , include developer , to recover fund pay out by both taxpayer and leaseholder to fix building . we will continue to take action against those who do not step up to their responsibility . colleague in the fire and rescue service and local council be critical to the fight to ensure that resident be safe , and we be work with they to increase action . many council and fire and rescue service be do a good job , but some need to do more . over the last year , the additional funding that we have provide for council have mean that the pace of enforcement have step up markedly . council be inform we of enforcement action at a rate of four per week , compare with one per month in 2022 , and we expect that to accelerate far . to support that , today we be publish our first league table , outline where enforcement be be take so that resident can see exactly what be happen and where . we will regularly update the league table to ensure that the public remain sighted on their authority ’ enforcement activity . our focus now be on more , and more consistent , enforcement . last week , I meet the Building Safety Regulator and sector leader to discuss how we can build a share plan to increase the pace of remediation far . today , I be announce a number of initiative to boost enforcement : a furth £ 6 million to council enforcement team , the development of a new regulatory protocol for great consistency and a new fund that partner can access for legal support in complex case . for a task as big as this , remediation of building with issue be always go to take time . there be no doubt that in some part of the sector it be still take far too long . yet already , almost 60 , 000 homeowner have peace of mind that remediation be complete , and a further 300 , 000 dwelling be well on the way to the same . every week that go by , more be do : there be more start and more completion and , vitally , more of those who be unwilling to do the right thing be be expose . we will not stop until we have fix cladding issue . today , I hope the House can see the real and accelerate progress that be be make .