business before Questions Royal Albert Hall Bill [ Lords ] second reading oppose and defer until Tuesday 24 June ( Standing Order no . 20 ) . oral Answers to Questions Health and Social Care the Secretary of State be ask — NHS Buildings : Maintenance Backlogs what recent progress his Department have make on tackle the backlog of repair in hospital . what step his Department be take to tackle building maintenance backlog in the NHS estate . the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my hon . friend the Member for West Lancashire ( Ashley Dalton ) , send her apology due to a family issue . she be very much in our thought today . thank to the decision take by my right hon . friend the Chancellor at the spending review , health capital budget will increase to £ 14 . 6 billion by the end of the spending review period . that will deliver the large - ever health capital budget in NHS history . across this settlement , more than £ 5 billion will be invest to address the most critical building repair , reduce the most serious and critical infrastructure risk and rebuild the broken NHS leave by the Conservatives . while I welcome the recent announcement of £ 12 million of extra funding for Epsom and St Helier university hospital NHS trust , it be quite frankly a drop in the ocean in comparison with the scale of need , because the current backlog at the trust cost £ 150 million . patient and staff deserve safe and modern facility , not patchwork repair . I therefore ask the Secretary of State to meet with I and visit Epsom and St Helier hospital to see at first hand the scale of the challenge and how we can accelerate progress . I absolutely appreciate the challenge that the hon . member describe , have meet with the trust myself . the Minister for Secondary Care , my hon . friend the Member for Bristol South ( Karin Smyth ) and I have both meet with local mp about the challenge face Epsom and St Helier . Lord Darzi ' s investigation find that the Conservatives leave a £ 37 billion black hole in NHS capital . we be reverse that trend , with the large - ever capital budget for health . the £ 12 . 1 million for Epsom and St Helier trust for estate safety be in addition to the £ 207 million of capital that the NHS South West London integrate care board be receive , include for maintenance backlog . it will take time , but brick by brick Labour be rebuild our NHS . the Imperial College healthcare NHS trust have the large high - risk repair backlog in the country . the support from the Government estate safety fund be very welcome , but to solve this problem we ultimately need a new St Mary ' s hospital . will the Secretary of State join I in praise the work of the new three - year St Mary ' s taskforce , which aim to get to full planning consent and explore different financing model so that we can finally get this hospital build ? I thank my hon . friend for the work that he and my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Rachel Blake ) be lead in partnership with the trust and Westminster city council to ensure that the people of his constituency have the hospital they deserve . as he know , this will be the most complicated scheme in the new hospital programme , but that be no excuse for the year of delay that the scheme have face . the trust now boast the big high - risk repair backlog in the country , so my hon . friend be right to ensure that this be not allow to be put in the " too difficult " pile again . we look forward to engage constructively and do everything that we can to expedite the progress that be desperately need for his community and our city . pharmacy what step he be take to support rural pharmacy . what step his Department be take to support community pharmacy . after year of underfunding , the Government agree a record uplift of £ 3 . 1 billion for ' 25 - 26 for the pharmacy sector . the pharmacy access scheme provide £ 19 million to support pharmacy in area with few pharmacy , include in rural area , but funding must always come with reform . our hub and speak legislation , if it be pass in the other place today , will allow pharmacy to streamline their dispense process , and it be a major step in the right direction in marry reform with investment . I recently visit Modbury pharmacy , where owner Phil Dawes highlight the challenge face small rural pharmacy . he explain how the current funding model do not take into account the low footfall and limited referral rate that be common in rural area . we know that if a pharmacy in a small market town close , it can cause extreme difficulty for people to access advice and medicine , particularly where there be little or no public transport and they have to go a long way . will the Government consider introduce rural exception or adjusted funding threshold so that we can keep community pharmacy open ? the pharmacy sector be face huge challenge after massive cut over the past 14 year . we be begin to rebuild , but the hon . Lady be right that there be particular challenge for rural pharmacy . we be look at comprehensive reform in the pharmacy sector involve the well use of technology , hub and speak dispensing , and a range of other option that would enable well remote dispensing for rural pharmacy . I have visit pharmacy across my constituency . they be all struggle to provide a service , but be all very keen to take on the new service that the NHS be suggest . will the Minister commit to ensure that rural and community pharmacy be properly staff and equip to deliver those community service , such as diabete testing and weight management treatment , so that patient be not leave behind just because of where they live ? the hon . Lady be right that pharmacy will play a central role in the shift from hospital to community that we will be put at the heart of our 10 - year plan . an important part of that , of course , be Pharmacy First . the take - up of Pharmacy First be not what we would like it to be , so we be look at option to increase awareness of Pharmacy First and to free up pharmacist to be able to operate at the top of their licence . part of that be about streamline the dispense side of what they do , and the hub and speak legislation that I mention early will be really important in that context . the Minister have speak many time about the importance of shift from hospital to the community . I have visit many local pharmacy and meet the chair of Community Pharmacy Nottinghamshire , see at first hand the important work they do to support community in Mansfield . do the Minister agree that community pharmacy have a key role to play in that shift and could help to take pressure off GP surgery ? my hon . friend be absolutely right , and I commend he for the work he be do in his constituency , include with pharmacy . in many way , what we want to see be a culture change , because the interface between general practice and community pharmacy be not where it should be . we believe that pharmacist have a huge amount more to offer , but that require a well digital interface and well information sharing — a single patient record . that sort of vehicle will be really important for deliver some of those reform . I call the shadow Minister . I be pleased to hear the Minister speak about Pharmacy First , which be bring forward by the previous Government and welcome by community , the public and the pharmacist . although I be pleased to see the Government continue it , why have they decide to cap the number of consultation that a pharmacist may do ? part of that be about the financial arrangement for Pharmacy First , which need to be set at a level that incentivise pharmacist . sadly , give the way in which the scheme be set up under the previous Government , those incentive be not work , which be one reason why the take - up of Pharmacy First have not be what it need to be . it be a question not of cap but much more one of get the right level of financial compensation for Pharmacy First so that it work and incentivise the system . I be grateful to the Minister for his answer , but part of the problem be that once pharmacist hit that cap , they be no long pay the £ 17 per consultation . in turn , that mean that either patient will be turn away , or the pharmacist must take the hit and pay for it themselves . that disjoin the system and could create extra cost , because patient who be turn away will turn up in other area of primary care , such as their gp surgery . how do that fit with darzi ' s push towards community - base service ? the hon . Gentleman will have see — and I be sure will welcome — the record uplift of £ 3 . 1 billion that we be put into the pharmacy sector after year of underfunding , incompetence and neglect from the conservative party . a big part of this be ensure that the shift from hospital to community take place , and we want pharmacist to be take pressure off primary care . we have to make Pharmacy First work effectively , which mean get the allocation of fund right . that be what we be work on in term of reform . now that we have the spending review and the package , that be what we will be deliver . Medicine Supply chain : community pharmacy if he will undertake a review of the potential impact of medicine supply chain shortage on community pharmacy . increase the resilience of the UK medical supply chain be a key priority . I regularly meet the team to routinely take action to mitigate supply issue , include request additional stock , identify alternative global source and issue management advice . although the Department have no plan to conduct a specific review , we constantly work to identify and take forward further action to reduce the impact of medicine shortage , include target winter monitoring . have work in community pharmacy for nearly 20 year , I have witness at first hand the pain that medicine shortage can cause North Somerset patient and their loved one . will the Minister meet I , along with my hon . friend the Member for Exeter ( Steve Race ) and other member of the all - party parliamentary group on pharmacy , to discuss the outcome of our inquiry into these shortage ? I congratulate my hon . friend and constituency neighbour on his dedicated career in community pharmacy , and thank he for the expertise that he bring to the work of the all - party parliamentary group to help member understand the impact of this issue on patient and pharmacy . I be plan to hold a parliamentary event on the subject in the autumn , and I be keen to work with the APPG to make it a success for all member . supply chain problem be just one of the many issue that be have an impact on community pharmacy . my local pharmacy in Noak Bridge be one of they , but it be also be hammer with national insurance increase , and the combination of these issue mean that its long - term viability be at stake . will the review that the Minister have mention include all the impact on community pharmacy that be affect their long - term viability ? the long - term viability of pharmacy and , indeed , the whole NHS be under threat from the right hon . Gentleman and his party , but thank to this Government , it be be make fit for the future . this be a serious issue for all our constituent , and we want to make the system work well . the right hon . Gentleman will see from the 10 - year plan that we will make the NHS fit for his constituent , mine and those of every other Member . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . across the country , community pharmacy struggle not only with supply chain problem but with dispense some of the critical medicine for our constituent at a loss . I be concerned to read that high price for United States pharmaceutical be on the table for the next stage of trade negotiation with Donald Trump , because an additional £ 1 . 5 billion would cost both the NHS and our community pharmacy dear . what step be the Department take to ensure that the NHS , and the vital medicine supply on which we rely , will not be use as a bargaining chip in a trade deal with a highly unreliable US President ? the hon . Lady have ask an important question about the pharmaceutical industry , which be key to the country ' s growth mission and to support all our constituent and the entire country . as we know , my right hon . friend the Prime Minister be currently attend the G7 summit . we have good relationship with America , and the Department be work closely across Government to ensure that the same stability of supply remain for our constituent . access to GPs whether he have make an assessment of the potential merit of expand the additional role reimbursement scheme to include GPs . what step he be take to improve access to GPs . the Government inherit a ludicrous situation whereby patient could not get a GP appointment and GPs could not get a job , so one of my first act be to cut red tape to give practice flexibility to hire GPs , along with an extra £ 82 million investment . thank to that combination of investment and reform , this Government have recruit an additional 1 , 700 gps to the frontline since July , exceed our target of 1 , 000 . we have invest an extra £ 889 million in general practice this year , take action to bring back the family doctor . we do not pretend to have solve all the problem , but change have begin and the good be still to come . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to restore the family doctor , and the recruitment of 1 , 700 additional GPs nationwide , but my constituency have yet to benefit from that . concern have be express to I about the expansion of the additional role reimbursement scheme to include only newly qualified GPs , which it be fear may be too restrictive . I have meet local gp partner who share that concern , so will the Secretary of State meet we to discuss how the scheme can well support area such as mine ? we be invest an extra £ 900 million in general practice , and have reform the GP contract to help bring back the family doctor and end the 8 am scramble . that contract reform include further change to make it easy to recruit GPs through the scheme . as my hon . friend will see shortly when we publish the 10 - year plan for health , general practice be at the heart of our proposal to build a neighbourhood health service . I be keen to work with she and with GPs to make it even easy to ensure that qualified GPs can get job and patient can get gp appointment , and I should be delighted to meet she . after 14 year of the Conservatives run down the frontline of the NHS , many people in Basingstoke still struggle to gain access to their gps . one issue that patient and GPs raise time and again be the lack of capital investment in new provision to meet grow housing need . Chineham medical practice , for example , be build to serve just 8 , 000 patient but now serve more than 18 , 000 , and be set to serve many thousand more in the year to come . what more be the Government do to enable every patient in Basingstoke to see their gp when they need to ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . just as this Government be deliver record home building with a huge target to build the home that Britain need , we also need to ensure that people get the local service that they deserve . that be exactly why this Government have invest an extra £ 102 million this year to create additional clinical space in over 1 , 000 gp practice , which will create new consultation room and make well use of exist space to deliver more appointment . I know the Chineham medical practice be one of the practice put forward by its integrate care board for funding , so I hope we will see that practice benefit from this investment in the near future as we rebuild our NHS . the Government ' s additional role reimbursement scheme lead to just three new GPs for my constituent in Wokingham , which be a drop in the ocean . More need to be do to deliver GP practice in new development such as Arborfield in south Wokingham . why do Ministers not support the Liberal Democrat amendment to the Planning and Infrastructure Bill that would have make commitment to build GP surgery in all new housing development legally bind ? probably because be that prescriptive about every housing development be not sensible , even if the thrust of what the hon . member describe — that as new housing development be build , we need to ensure that local infrastructure go alongside it — be the right approach . I take what he say about the number of GPs , and as I have say , we do not pretend to have fix all the problem in 11 month , but with respect , those be three more gps than be there before . I know there be more to do , but give I time , and we will rebuild general practice for his constituent and anyone else ' s . access to gps in my constituency of Chichester be be undermine by the closure of the Westbourne branch of emsworth medical practice at the end of this month . patient will now have to travel to Emsworth , but we be talk about a small rural village , and there be no public transport to get my elderly and vulnerable patient to that medical practice over the border . will the Secretary of State please meet I to urgently discuss how we can protect this vital service in a rural village in Chichester ? I can well understand the hon . member ' s concern and her constituent ' concern . practice closure be hard on community wherever they be , but they disproportionately hit rural community and those that suffer with poor transport connectivity . I would urge she in the first instance to raise the specific local issue with the ICB . however , I reassure she and other right hon . and hon . member that the need of rural , coastal and remote community be very much in our mind — and , crucially , in the 10 - year plan — and our thinking about how we build genuine neighbourhood health service in all type of neighbourhood . Mental Health Services : staffing in Rural Areas what step his Department plan to take to ensure mental health service be fully staff in rural area . I know this be an important issue for the hon . member from the meeting we have about it last year . this government be support local provider by recruit an additional 8 , 500 mental health worker by the end of this Parliament . we be also expand NHS talk therapy and pilot six new 24 / 7 neighbourhood mental health centre , include Hope Haven serve Whitehaven and rural Copeland . I thank the Minister for his reply , but this month the Care Quality Commission find high level of staff vacancy in the already understaffe psychiatric intensive care unit and acute mental health ward in South Cumbria , conclude that this be put patient safety " at risk " . yet , worryingly , the ICB in South Cumbria be make additional cut of £ 142 million this year , with North Cumbria also make cut . in the light of that , what be his plan to intervene to ensure that mental health staffing in Cumbria be increase to safe level ? I thank the hon . member for that . there be no doubt that the NHS , university and other need to do more to get student , trainee and qualified doctor and mental health specialist in place where the NHS and patient need they . we will publish a refreshed workforce plan later this year to ensure that the NHS have the right people in the right place to care for patient when they need it . the SNP have cut mental health service across Scotland , while fail to recruit the necessary workforce in rural community such as those in Stirling and Strathallan . what assessment have the Department make of how devolved mismanagement of mental health service be affect outcome for patient in rural Scotland ? if we be to make an assessment of the way in which the SNP have mismanage its responsibility in Scotland we would be here for a very long time . I be not sure I can answer my hon . friend ' s question in the round , but I be sure that colleague from the SNP will be welcome the record investment that the UK Government have make in Scotland . I be certainly look forward to the improved outcome that they will be deliver as a result . health of the Elderly what recent step he have take to support the health of the elderly . the spending review announce increase in nhs spending alongside more money for adult social care . by invest in DEXA scanner , we can more rapidly treat condition such as osteoporosis , which particularly affect elderly woman . our urgent and emergency care plan promote fall prevention technology for long independent living and few hospital admission . GPs be now incentivise to improve continuity of care , benefit patient with long - term condition . I thank the Minister for his reply , but as the Secretary of State know only too well , my borough of Havering contain one of the high number of elderly people in the entire London region , yet Queen ' s hospital in Romford remain chronically underfunde , overstretch and struggle to meet the grow healthcare need of an age community . will the Minister commit today to the serious investment that queen ' s hospital so desperately require to ensure well health outcome for old people across Romford ? I carefully note the fact that the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , who be sit next to I , have an interest in this issue , so I will tread very carefully with my answer . I understand that the hon . Gentleman have discuss this matter with the Minister for Secondary Care . the North East London health and care partnership integrate care board be responsible for delivery , implementation and funding decision for local service , but the hon . Gentleman ' s representation have be carefully note today , not least by the Secretary of State for Health . one of the most important thing we can do to support the health of the elderly be to ensure that they can get to see their local doctor . it be great to hear the Health Secretary talk about the improve access to appointment — we be see that in Chesterfield — but he be also right to say that it be the first step back up the mountain . the Government inherit a real crisis in GP access and the situation be particularly difficult in more deprive area . will my hon . friend tell I what more we will do to ensure that people be able to see a gp , and in particular that practice that serve the most deprived community can get access to the extra gps they need ? my hon . friend will know that when we come into Government we inherit the absurd situation where the additional role reimbursement scheme be weigh down by red tape and it be not actually possible to recruit GPs . we change that . we invest an extra £ 82 million and as a result we have well over 1 , 000 more gps on the frontline , but that be just the beginning . we have contract reform and £ 889 million of additional investment in general practice , and we be move forward with an online booking system , which will be obligatory by 1 October . we have much more work to do — for example , around the interface with pharmacy ; we be work hard on that . there be a lot more to do , but my hon . friend be right that the first step up the mountain have be take . I call the shadow Minister . last health question , I ask about delay to crucial medication in A & E and the Secretary of State say he be interested to hear more , but his office say he would delegate it to a Minister and we still have not be offer a date , so could I encourage he to look into that , please ? the u - turn on winter fuel will help the elderly to stay warm and healthy this winter , but another way to help elderly people would be to protect they from the respiratory syncytial virus . will the Government extend the vaccination to the over - 80 ? I thank the hon . Lady for that question , but I do not quite catch the word she use . the virus be call ? [ interruption . ] oh — RSV , yes . we be certainly look at increase the coverage of the RSV vaccination . I do not have the statistic to hand at the moment , but I would be happy to write to she on that point . many of those on waiting list be elderly and have chronic condition ; rather than see consultant at regular interval , which may coincide with they be relatively well , they be often keep on open appointment so that they can call when they be ill . this be efficient and responsive care . be the Minister aware that this provision be be stop in some area in order to improve figure ? I will quote from a letter about an elderly patient : " I regret can not keep he on my waiting list under the open appointment " for treatment , and , " I have explain the politic of everything and where we be at . " be re - refer to a gp each time be expensive and a waste of time . can the Minister explain why doctor be be ask to make decision for political reason , instead of clinical one ? I do not think any decision be be make for political reason — our medical and health staff be very much focused on do the right thing from a clinical point of view . the hon . Lady raise an important point about continuity of care , with people constantly have to be re - refer into the system . part of the reason for that be the utter incompetence with which the previous Government manage our primary care system , which have result in people be pass from pillar to post , the additional role reimbursement scheme not actually be about have GPs on the frontline , but about have other staff , which create more friction in the system , and poor continuity of care . this government be go to bring back the family doctor — that be the way to get our general practice back on its foot . nhs : Wasteful Spending what step his Department be take to tackle wasteful spending in the NHS . what step his Department be take to tackle wasteful spending in the NHS . this government be deliver record investment in our NHS , but that investment be draw from taxpayer , and we have a responsibility to every taxpayer in the land — as well as to patient — to ensure that every single penny be well spend . that be why that investment be match with bold reform , so that we get as much value as possible for every penny . the abolition of NHS England will slash duplication and unnecessary bureaucracy , and I be pleased to report to the House that we have slash spending on agency staff by almost £ 1 billion compare with last year . all those saving be be reinveste into frontline care . from speak to my local NHS trust in Gateshead , I know the value it place on drive cost down , but it still face financial pressure . key among those be issue relate to the digital capital gap . we be really keen in Gateshead to improve that situation and to allow more people to access the NHS remotely . will the Secretary of State meet I and Gateshead NHS trust to talk about how we can tackle that ? I would be delighted to do so . my hon . friend be absolutely right : we have to ensure that the NHS be not only benefit from , but at the forefront of the revolution take place in digital service and medical technology . it be key to drive productivity and financial sustainability . that be why , at the spending review , the Chancellor announce that we would invest up to £ 10 billion in NHS technology and digital transformation ; unlike our predecessor , we will not raid tech budget to plug shortfall in day - to - day spending . just this month , we announce the modernisation of the NHS app , so that patient can receive test result and book appointment , save £ 200 million in stamp , envelope and letter . I thank the Secretary of State for his early reply . in Scotland , there be more quango than msp . after four year and £ 30 million of taxpayer ' cash down the drain , the SNP have scrap its plan for a national care service — its flagship policy — which be see as a significant setback for scottish social care reform , and now we have people go to the pub in chauffeur - drive ministerial car . will the Secretary of State advise his scottish counterpart on how to stop waste scottish taxpayer ' money ? give the state of the NHS in Scotland , I suspect my counterpart need to go and drown his sorrow . the truth be that the long the SNP be in government , the long the NHS in Scotland be on the road to nowhere . the SNP be now on its fifth health plan in four year . thank to the decision take by the Chancellor , it be not just the NHS in England that be receive record investment , but the Scottish Government . I have use that investment to cut waiting list by almost a quarter of a million people ; the same could be true in Scotland , if the scottish people boot out the SNP and elect Anas Sarwar and Jackie Baillie to deliver the change that Scotland ' s NHS need . a good way to save money in the NHS be to invest in palliative and end - of - life care , because it avert cost that would otherwise go into the acute sector , include into ambulance . however , this Government be take money from that sector through their national insurance rise . give that integrate care board be suppose to commission palliative care , will the Secretary of State commit in the 10 - year health plan to a proper revenue funding model for hospice , and for a minimum service specification for palliative care ? I can reassure the hon . member that end - of - life care be feature in the 10 - year plan for health . I also recognise the pressure on our hospice sector , which be why this Government , as well as deliver £ 26 million through the child ' s hospice grant , commit £ 100 million of capital investment — the big in a generation for our hospice . none the less , hospice do rely on the generosity of donor and I be keen to work in partnership with the sector to look at what more we can do to encourage investment . the final thing I would say be that the Opposition party welcome the investment in the national health service while oppose the mean of raise it . they can not have it both way ; either they support the investment and the revenue raiser or they have to be honest with the public that they would be cut the NHS . one of the most egregious example of waste in recent year be the almost £ 10 billion spend on useless personal protective equipment during the pandemic . when the Treasury eventually recover some of that money , will the Secretary of State assure I that scottish taxpayer will benefit in the usual way through the usual channel ? fiscal decision and spending be matter for my right hon . friend the Chancellor , but let I reassure the hon . gentleman of two thing . first , the way in which the taxpayer of this country be rip off during a national emergency be a total disgrace , and this Government be determined to get our money back and reinvest it in frontline service , where it should always have be . secondly , I can reassure he that , so long as there be a Labour Government here in Westminster , Scotland will continue to benefit from the investment it need to sort out its public service . now it just need a Labour Government in Scotland to spend that money wisely . a & E Waiting Times what step he be take to help reduce waiting time in A & E department . this Government be commit to fix the NHS and reduce a & E waiting time . our new urgent and emergency care plan be back by nearly £ 400 million of investment to deliver new urgent treatment centre , mental health assessment centre and almost 400 new ambulance . alongside that investment , we be reform urgent and emergency care so that more patient be treat at the scene or in their home where appropriate , which be well for they and will help to unclog a & E department . lot have be do , but there be much more to do . the Minister for Secondary Care recently visit my constituency and see the pressure that Newham hospital A & E be under . that be partly due to the pressure leave by the previous Conservative Government , and partly due to capacity issue result from a massive growth in population in the borough . further pressure will come as we regenerate the massive area of brownfield site in the Royal Docks . can the Secretary of State reassure my constituent that , as well as the excellent work be do on day - to - day capacity , we will be look at infrastructure over the long term to make sure that we be not only deal with the growth that we have have , but future - proofing for the population growth to come ? I know that my hon . friend the Minister for Secondary Care enjoy her visit , and I thank the staff at Newham hospital for the work they do , which also benefit my constituent . we need to make sure that we be support hospital across our country to meet need , because we be part of a wide ecosystem — I notice that that point be also powerfully make by the hon . member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) in his question . my hon . friend the Member for West Ham and Beckton ( James Asser ) be right to raise increase demand and pressure , which be why we will shortly publish our 10 - year plan for health . I be happy to report that Whipps Cross and Newham hospital have also be provisionally allocate £ 28 million this year to improve building and estate . the Government continue to claim that they wish to expand community diagnostic centre to speed up scanning and treatment of patient and therefore reduce demand on the like of A & E . if that be the case , why be they cut the revenue tariff that be available to the community diagnostic centre under the previous Conservative Government , which have already impact the financial viability of the cdc and access for patient ? I think the hon . Gentleman will find that , since this government come to power , we have reduce the size of NHS waiting list by a quarter of a million . nhs waiting list be come down — late figure show that this be the first time in 17 year that waiting list have fall in the month of April — so we be make progress , not least thank to the investment that we be put into community diagnostic centre . the hon . Gentleman have some brass neck to complain about NHS service under this Government , when we be clean up the mess that the previous Government leave behind . it would also help to extend the hour at Chorley A & E . under - 18 sunbe Ban whether his Department have make an assessment of the effectiveness of the ban on the use of sunbed by under - 18 . the Sunbeds ( Regulation ) Act 2010 ban the use of commercial sunbed for under - 18 , require business to prevent under - age use . the Department have commission the Committee on Medical Aspects of Radiation in the Environment to review the Act , include the effectiveness of the under - 18 ban . accord to Cancer Research UK , 86 % of melanoma skin cancer case be preventable . my constituent Charlotte , who have stage 4 melanoma , be lead a campaign alongside Melanoma Focus to get well enforcement for the ban on sunbed for under - 18 and to stop the use of harmful melanotan II product such as tan nasal spray and injection . for under - 35s , just one session on the sunbed be enough uv exposure to increase the risk of melanoma to 59 % . prevention be well than cure . will the Minister meet we to discuss the effectiveness of the ban and preventive measure such as access to free sunscreen at event ? as someone who be diagnose myself with an early stage melanoma , I really commend the work of my hon . friend ' s constituent . I never use sunbed and I spend holiday in my youth in Ireland , so I never see much sun either — sorry to the irish tourism board . as my hon . Friend say , it be an overwhelmingly preventable cancer , include by use sunscreen , well clothing , shading and no sunbed . it be up to event organiser to provide sunscreen at event , but my hon . friend be right . I want to personally thank Melanoma Focus for the support it give I during my diagnosis . there be great charity out there to support people . I be sure a Minister will be in contact with my hon . friend and her constituent soon to highlight the prevention aspect of this disease . until his recent death , my constituent Luke Webster have live with alternate hemiplegia of childhood . his life be short and he spend much of it be move between different care facility , to the frustration of his family . at one such facility , Luke be abuse . will the Minister meet I and Luke ' s mother to discuss improved safeguard — order . I do not think this be relevant to sun tanning . let we move on . Biopsy Waiting Times what step he be take to reduce waiting time for biopsy result . More patient be now get world - lead testing technology in the NHS as part of our mission to revolutionise cancer care in this country . the Government be spend £ 600 million a year in capital on diagnostic , include for the first time funding for the automation of histopathology laboratory to improve productivity . we be also fund pathology network to reach digital maturity by 2026 , which will reduce unnecessary wait and repeat test . my constituent Julian notice that he have a mole on his chest that be grow and bleed . member of his family have die from skin cancer , so he be very concerned and go to his gp . he be refer to the Kent integrate dermatology service and be tell that the result would come back in four week . they come back in 17 week . I know that this issue be of personal concern to the Minister , so would she please investigate what happen and write to I ? the hon . member raise an awful case on behalf of his constituent . of course , our targeting of waiting list include diagnostic . what happen in that case should not happen anywhere , and I will ensure that he get a response as soon as possible . cancer Diagnoses what step his Department be take to reduce the time take for cancer diagnosis . what step his Department be take to reduce the time take for cancer diagnosis . reduce wait time for cancer diagnosis remain a key priority . under this Government , an extra 99 , 000 patient have have cancer diagnose or rule out . this have be support by investment , include in Cancer 360 — a digital innovation that bring patient datum into one central platform — and in NHS England ' s cancer innovation open call to fast - track cutting - edge intervention into practice . our forthcoming national cancer plan will set out how we will speed up cancer diagnosis even far . our Labour Government have recently invest in a new state - of - the - art linear accelerator machine in Southend hospital . the machine be the first of its type in the country and will drastically improve cancer treatment . please can the Minister outline how record level of investment , such as in the LINAC machine and as announce at the spending review , will finally mean that the NHS will be there when we need it ? I be delighted that my hon . friend ' s constituent will benefit from the £ 70 million investment . these machine be game change and will reduce the number of visit for his constituent . they be also more reliable , which give more capacity to the system . that be well for staff , as there will be less appointment cancellation . that be exactly the sort of thing we want to see more of , and we be deliver that under this government . it be the result of our drive to reduce long wait and treat more people quick . that be reinforce in last week ' s spending review , and it be exactly what his constituent deserve . early diagnosis of less survivable cancer be vital if survival rate be to improve . what assessment have the Department make of the report by the all - party parliamentary group on less survivable cancer that look at early detection and fast diagnosis , and what step be the Department take to deliver on this ? my hon . friend be right to highlight that issue . I commend her great work not just on the APPG but on lead the Health and Social Care Committee on behalf of its Chair , the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) . she be right to highlight that it be a priority for the Government to diagnose cancer early and improve survival rate . that be particularly important for the group of people with rare cancer . the APPG ' s report will inform the development of our national cancer plan , which will seek to include all aspect of care throughout the entirety of the cancer pathway . part of a successful cancer journey be swift cancer treatment as well as swift diagnosis . my constituent Catherine be diagnose last year with stage 3 breast cancer . she have a mastectomy and go through chemotherapy . she be then mean to begin a course of radiotherapy in December , but as of May that still have not begin . what can the Department do to ensure that those unacceptable delay do not happen and life can be save ? many hon . member across the House rightly highlight the actual experience of people throughout the entire pathway . we have hear about the investment we be make in machine and in staff to ensure , on exactly this point , that people get not just that fast diagnosis — that be so important , particularly if cancer be rule out — but fast care across the entire pathway . the majority of people on waiting list be on they for diagnostic , which be exactly why we be invest more in capital and invest in staff to ensure that the process be quick and well for patient . if the hon . Member want to write to I about any particular issue , I will obviously respond to she . every 17 minute , someone in Yorkshire be tell that they have cancer . tomorrow , I will be launch a report for Yorkshire Cancer Research , which be base in my constituency , that will set out key recommendation . will the Minister meet we to talk about how we can feed they into the national cancer plan ? the work that the hon . Member be do locally with that group be essential . I will ensure that we have a good response for he , whether it be meet I or a colleague . care in the Community what step he be take to shift care from hospital into the community . we be get the NHS back on its foot and make it fit for the future by shift care to the community with £ 889 million more for GPs , 1 , 700 additional frontline GPs , 700 , 000 extra urgent dental appointment annually and a 19 % uplift to the community pharmacy contract . look to the future , our commitment to build a neighbourhood health service be right at the heart of our 10 - year plan . I be delighted by the Government ' s commitment to move healthcare close to the community , include through the establishment of neighbourhood health centre . that be exactly what we need in Aylesbury , and I be pleased that all our key healthcare provider , include the NHS trust and several GP practice , be already work together to well integrate their care , which be an important step in the right direction . will the Minister update I on his progress towards the model of neighbourhood - base healthcare ? can he advise what more Aylesbury ' s healthcare provider can do to ensure that my resident benefit from the Government ' s work in this area ? it be really good to hear about the fantastic work go on in my hon . friend ' s constituency . we be work with system to move to a neighbourhood health model by build on exist good practice , particularly around the development of multidisciplinary team . Aylesbury be an outstanding example of that . ahead of the 10 - year health plan ' s publication , local community can continue to make progress by utilise the neighbourhood health guideline that be publish back in January . dental patient with untreated need end up in hospital . in place like Hedon in my constituency , we have see more and more dental practice move away from the NHS . I have a constituent who find it take she three year to get her child their first check - up , and that dental practice have now cease to look after NHS patient . she also can not get the NHS treatment she deserve herself , even though she have a child in February . what in the 10 - year plan will change that and ensure that everyone can get access to NHS dentistry ? the right hon . member be right to point to child ' s dental health . after we win the election in July , I look across my portfolio and it be pretty much a car crash in every aspect , thank to the incompetence of previous government . perhaps the most shocking statistic of all be that the big reason five to nine - year - old child be admit to hospital be to have their rotten tooth remove . that be a dickensian state of affair . we be work with the British Dental Association on contract reform . we have get to incentivise NHS dentistry , do away with the false economy set up under the last government and get dentistry back to where it need to be . the saying go that it take a village to raise a baby , mean that those in our community provide family with vital support . do the Minister agree that we need to invest in more community midwife to ensure that family be properly support through the whole of pregnancy and after birth ? I thank my hon . friend for that important question . the role that midwive play , alongside other community health service such as district nurse , have be chronically underfunde and neglect over the past 14 year . she will be pleased to know that the role of community healthcare be front and centre in our 10 - year plan , and I think she will be interested in and please with what she see when that plan be publish . the Darzi report point out that 13 % of hospital bed be occupy by people who be fit for discharge but who can not get out because social care be break . Lord Darzi say that we can not fix the NHS until we fix social care . it be nearly six month since the Secretary of State promise cross - party talk and a commission , but the talk be cancel and never reschedule and the commission be delay . please , when will the Government stop go slow on social care ? please , when can we all get around the table to talk about fix social care so that everyone get the care they deserve ? I have to correct the hon . Lady : the commission be up and run , Baroness Casey have start meeting and she have a roundtable just a few week ago with people who have live experience . the hon . Lady be therefore not correct on that point and I be sure that she will want to correct the record . on the point about delay discharge , the hon . Lady be absolutely right . we be reform the well care fund to get much well interface between hospital , care and local authority . that system and those relationship can and should work much well , but there be press , long - term challenge . we be conscious of that and be work at pace with Baroness Casey to ensure that those reform be deliver . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . as we have just hear , it be widely acknowledge that the crisis in social care be a cause of dangerously high occupancy rate in hospital that lead to the horror of corridor care , the dreadful ambulance wait time that we have see and a knock - on effect on the community . when I be contact by the family of a terminally ill man in Wem in my constituency last month , I be remind that not only be care often provide in the wrong place , but it be often not available at all . will the Government bring forward the timeline for the horribly delay Casey review to report back , get it do this year and heed Liberal Democrat call for cross - party talk so that we can agree on a long - term solution for the crisis ? may I just tackle the idea that we be not work at pace on these issue ? we have have the unpaid carer ' s uplift from £ 151 to £ 196 , which be the big uplift in carer ' s allowance since the 1970 when the policy be bring in ; hundred of million of pound ' uplift in the disabled facility grant ; and groundbreake legislation for a fair pay agreement for care worker . those be just some of the immediate step that we have take . the first phase of the Casey review will report next year and we continue to work closely with Baroness Casey to deliver the reform that be so desperately need after 14 year of neglect , include a number of year when the Liberal Democrats be in government . Topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . waiting list be at their low level for two year , we have take almost a quarter of a million patient off waiting list and for the first time in 17 year waiting list be cut in April . there be a long way to go , but this Government be finally put the NHS on the road to recovery . through our plan for change , I have announce that the NHS will also be at the forefront of the revolution in life science . through the NHS app , patient will be link up with relevant trial to boost our life science sector , generate investment for the NHS and develop the medicine of the future . it be nearly four year since Professor Sir Chris Whitty publish his striking report on health in coastal community . Covid inevitably delay implementation , so will the Secretary of State look again at that report , deliver on the chief medical officer ' s recommendation and ensure that my constituent in Bridlington and the Wolds can access the health service that they need ? the hon . Gentleman be right to commend Sir Chris Whitty ' s report . we have take that into consideration , as well as the wide consultation we do in preparation for our 10 - year plan for health , which will commit to tackle the gross health inequality that affect our country , particularly in rural and coastal community . will the Secretary of State join I in welcome the recent NHS waiting list figure that show that the Worcestershire acute hospital NHS trust have see a fall of over 6 , 000 since this government come into office ? do he agree that progress like this show that , in partnership with our hard - work NHS staff , we can be the generation that take the NHS from the bad crisis in its history to the NHS that people deserve ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . it be thank to the fact that his constituent send he to this House of Commons that we have a Labour Government able to deliver , with he , for his community . I call the shadow Secretary of State . may I , through the Secretary of State , pass on my good wish to the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , the hon . member for West Lancashire ( Ashley Dalton ) ? in front of the Health and Social Care Committee in January , NHS England ' s then chief financial officer set out that pretty much all the additional funding to the NHS last year would be absorb by pay rise , national insurance contribution and inflation . what proportion of the late additional funding will be absorb in the same way ? first , I just do not buy the argument that invest in our staff be somehow not invest in the NHS . who on earth do the opposition think provide the treatment , deliver the care , organise the clinic and deliver the service ? even in this great new world of technology , the NHS will always be a people - base service and I be proud that this be a Government who deliver for staff . we be also wage war on waste , and that be how we can deliver fair pay for staff and improve care for patient . if only the Conservatives have do that when they have the chance . the right hon . Gentleman could not answer that question , but hopefully we will get a more positive response to this one . I recently have the privilege of meet Dr Susan Michaelis and her husband Tristan , who have set up the Lobular Moon Shot Project , which large number of member of all party across the House have back . they be seek £ 20 million over five year — a tiny sum in the context of the overall NHS budget — to research lobular breast cancer , which Susan be currently battle , to help improve outcome . her immediate ask be even simple : it be for the Secretary of State to meet she in person to discuss the campaign and its aim . he be a decent man . will he agree to do that ? I thank the shadow Secretary of State for his question and , even more importantly , I thank the amazing campaigner for what they be do . this be probably the easy question he be ever go to ask I . the answer be , of course , an emphatic yes . one of the main concern I have about assist dying be that it should never be easy to help someone die than it be to help they live . if pass , the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill would make thousand of terminally ill people every year eligible to end their life on the NHS . do our health service have the money to fund this service as well as its priority of bring down waiting list ? can I first thank my hon . friend the Minister for Care for the considerable amount of work he have do to support the House as it make its deliberation on this important issue ? of course , the Government be neutral ; it be for the House to decide . there be not money allocate to set up the service in the Bill at present , but it be for member of this House and the other place , should the Bill proceed , to decide whether to proceed . that be a decision that this Government will respect either way . the UK be desperately short of doctor , but thousand of applicant will be turn away due to a lack of training place . this be not a situation of the Minister ' s make , but he have now be in post for a year . can he assure we that nobody — no union , no Treasury Minister — will prevent he from do what need to be do and lift the training cap ? I should just say for the record that it be thank to my friend at the Treasury that we be able to do so much to invest in our health service . it be important to put that on record ahead of the Budget . the hon . Lady raise a really serious issue , and we be look carefully at what we can do to ensure that we get great people into our health service and that they can look forward to a great career . we be not in the right place as a country now ; we need to be in a well place . the 10 - year plan will set out our ambition on workforce and we will publish a new workforce plan later this year . it be 16 month since the publication of the Hughes report , but those patient harm by sodium valproate continue to await the outcome on the redress that the Government will provide . will the Secretary of State please provide an update on when they can expect an announcement on the redress that will be make available to they ? I thank my hon . friend for that important question . the Government be carefully consider the work of the patient safety commissioner and her report , which set out the option for redress . this be a complex issue involve input from different Government Departments . we will provide a further update on the commissioner ' s report soon . my constituency , in Scotland , have a significant shortage of health and social care worker , despite extensive effort to advertise recruitment to get people in , as replicate in part of England , Wales and Northern Ireland . the rug have be pull out from under that by the change to immigration policy and visa for that sector . will the Secretary of State commit to push this hard in Cabinet to ensure that we can have more geographic and sectoral visa ? I be really proud of the contribution that overseas worker make to health and social care service across our country . if they all leave tomorrow , the service would simply collapse . but I think there be an overreliance on overseas staff in health and care service , and that be contribute to level of net migration that be simply unsustainable . I have a responsibility to help the Home Secretary bring those number down and to give opportunity , through well pay and career progression , to home - grow talent , and that be what we will do . I have receive many email regard poor service from pharmacy in my constituency . in Maryport , resident report opening time not as advertise , long queue , low stock and delay receive vital medication . will the Minister tell the House how this Government will ensure that the public get the good quality service from our local pharmacy ? I be sorry to hear about the issue that my hon . friend ' s constituent be experience . I understand that he have raise the issue with the North East and North Cumbria ICB , which be investigate his concern . I would be happy to be keep inform , and if he be not happy with the outcome of that investigation , he should certainly come back to I . this Government be commit to support community pharmacy after a decade of underfunding and neglect . we recently agree a record uplift to £ 3 . 1 billion for 2025 - 26 . the Secretary of State may well be aware of the great awareness among young people of nicotine pouch . that seem to be a gap in the Tobacco and Vapes Bill currently go through Parliament . will he commit to look at this issue to ensure that it be cover and that we bar this alongside other form of tobacco and nicotine ? as the hon . Gentleman know through bitter experience , that rotten industry always find a way , and we have to keep on top of it and tackle the scourge of nicotine addiction . he know about this issue well than most , he have campaign so assiduously on it , and he be right to raise it , so let we look at what we can do to strengthen the Bill , if we can , as it go through Parliament . what step be the Secretary of State take to enable access to non - hormonal , non - steroidal oral contraceptive ? such contraceptive be an emerge technology that will be subject to clinical and other relevant assessment before be consider for use in England . the Government remain committed to ensure that woman can access their preferred method in a timely manner . a range of contraception be available free of charge from a range of setting . that include a copper coil , which be a non - hormonal , non - steroidal contraceptive device . in Prime Minister ' s question last week , I raise the need for a universal national screening programme for type 1 diabete . will the Secretary of State agree to meet I to discuss this , so that it could form part of the 10 - year plan , give that it fit so neatly into prevention of issue such as diabetic ketoacidosis over treatment ? I be in the Chamber to hear the hon . member ' s question . obviously we be lead by clinical advice when it come to decision on screen programme , but I understand the case she make . I would be delighted to ensure that she get a meeting with the relevant Minister . Earl Mountbatten hospice in my constituency deliver outstanding care across the community . despite that , Hampshire and Isle of Wight integrate care board plan to cut its funding by £ 1 . 4 million , while other hospice in the region have their funding increase . I be deeply concerned that the cut will affect our local health service . will the Minister meet I to discuss how we can restore that essential funding and protect hospice care for my constituent ? we have provide hospice in England with a record £ 100 million in capital funding , as my hon . friend will know . icb be responsible for commission palliative and end - of - life care service , include hospice , to meet the need of their local population . NHS England have publish statutory guidance to support that . I would of course be more than happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss that far . the British Dental Association recently publish analysis show that the proportion of NHS funding spend on dentistry more than halve under the Conservatives , who fail to account for inflation and demand to the cost of £ 1 billion . it be no wonder that we have dental desert across much of the country . will the Secretary of State ensure that dentistry receive its fair share of funding from the new NHS funding allocate in the spending review ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to point to the neglect and incompetence of the past 14 year . we be fight to get NHS dentistry back to where it need to be . an important first step , of course , be the 700 , 000 additional urgent appointment and supervise tooth - brush programme , but long - term contract reform be what be need , alongside the investment that will come through the spending review . accord to the Trussell Trust , the impact of hunger and hardship on people ' s health be drive an extra £ 6 . 3 billion in Government healthcare spending . what part be the Department play in reduce hunger and hardship — and thus the related healthcare cost — in my constituency and across the country ? my hon . friend be right to raise that important point . it be truly shameful that 4 . 5 million child in the UK now live in poverty . we be develop an ambitious strategy that tackle root cause , and we be already take action . alongside cross - government work on free school meal , breakfast club and fund childcare , the Department be invest £ 56 million in Start for life service and support healthy diet for 358 , 000 people through Healthy Start . optician be important medical professional for our community . unfortunately , when I speak to the Hertfordshire and West Essex integrate care board , I be tell that it will not allow optician to perform vital service such as treat minor eye injury , as do so be deem too expensive , despite that be the norm in the area surround my constituency . will the Minister meet I to discuss how we can ensure a fair system across the country , rather than a postcode lottery ? the hon . Gentleman be right to point to the anomaly in the eyecare system . there be concern about the role that some aspect of the independent sector be play , particularly in the light of the lucrative nature of cataract operation . if he write to I , I will be happy to set out the issue , and I guarantee that he will get the response in due course . infertility be a medical condition that affect one in six couple in the UK , but access to NHS treatment be a postcode lottery , with less than 10 % of icb in England offer the recommend three cycle of IVF . do the Minister agree that we need to end that postcode lottery , and will she meet I and campaigner such as Fertility Action to discuss how we can end it for good ? in the light of the broad pressure and change in the NHS , we have be consider the ambition on fertility service and fairness for all couple . the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence be review its fertility guideline , which will be the clinical standard for the future . I know that my hon . friend will ensure that she and the group she talk about keep an eye on that , and that she will work with they . I be happy to keep work with she on how we good support icb to improve their local offer . I have raise with Ministers before my concern about the closure of St Mark ' s walk - in urgent care centre in Maidenhead . Frimley ICB have confirm yet again that it will not reopen the centre , against the will of the majority of Maidenhead resident . will the Secretary of State meet I and local campaigner to see how we can finally get St Mark ' s walk - in centre back open after five year of closure ? I know that the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent will have note , through his representation as a constituency MP , that he could not have fight hard to save that service . we devolve these sort of decision to icb , in order that they make decision close to the community that they serve , with the conviction that those sort of decision be well take locally than centralised in Whitehall . I understand the case that he make , but have give icb a challenge , resource and freedom , we Ministers must resist the temptation to meddle every time they make decision that they believe be right for the community , even if those decision be controversial . will the Minister look into minimise the pain of patient go through hysteroscopy and biopsy procedure by request that medical professional fully brief they on anaesthetic and pain relief in advance of procedure to ensure that they can plan accordingly ? my hon . friend raise an important question . we be committed to improve woman ' s experience of gynaecological procedure , include hysteroscopy . woman should be provide with information prior to their procedure so that they can make an informed decision about the procedure and pain relief option , include local or general anaesthetic . he will probably make further representation , which we will certainly look at . one of the way in which the Secretary of State have reduce the waiting list be by turbocharge the use of the private sector since January , mean that half a million people have be treat in irreducible spare capacity . have that experience elicit any learning that the Secretary of State be able to take into the wide reform agenda for the NHS ? absolutely : the NHS always do well under a Labour Government . bark community hospital in my constituency have be provide antenatal service to mother in barking for many year , and woman also use its service to give birth . I be therefore really disappointed when I hear last week that the maternity birthing unit be likely to close . many in my community be deeply concerned . they be be redirect to Newham hospital , which the Care Quality Commission have rate as " require improvement " . woman deserve to give birth in a safe clinical environment . will Ministers ensure that additional attention and resource be provide to Newham hospital , so that it improve its standard and my constituent who be be redirect to give birth there can do so in a safe clinical space ? make sure that woman be give birth safely be the ultimate priority and the least that woman deserve . I understand my hon . friend ' s anxiety about this reconfiguration , and she be right to raise that with the ICB in the first instance . we be happy to meet she as Ministers , too . the crucial thing be that the service be configure and deliver in a way that prioritise the safety of woman and their baby . in March , the Minister for Care tell I that no decision could be take on a new dental school at the University of East Anglia until the spending review settlement be know . now that we know it , will he instruct the Office for student to allocate new training place at the UEA from 2026 ? the spending review have just be publish . the key now be to secure the allocation within the overall financial envelope . that will take a matter of week , and I will be happy to report back to the hon . member once we have that clarity . between 2001 and 2011 , the 15 % health inequality weight in NHS allocation make a positive , measurable difference to the health of deprive people . unfortunately , it be cut to 10 % in 2015 . with the spending review ' s increase in funding to the NHS , when will the health inequality weight reach 15 % ? I be really grateful to my hon . friend for her question . she be right to highlight the importance of funding follow inequality to redress that imbalance . I think she will be pleased with where we be with the 10 - year plan for health , and I would be delighted to meet she to discuss it . People in East Devon have be tell that they must now travel to Exeter for audiology service that they previously receive at their local community hospital . what step be the Government take to encourage new provider to restore accessible audiology service ? that have be a run theme this morning , which will not be lose on Ministers . we will ensure , as we deliver neighbourhood health service , that people can receive care close to home , wherever they live . we have hear that message loud and clear today , and I think the hon . Member will see that priority reflect in our 10 - year plan for health . I declare an interest , as my brother be a gp . when my resident be able to get a GP appointment , they be frustrate when they be send halfway across the borough to a different surgery from the one they be register with by their primary care network . can we address that , and be it part of our proposal in the new GP contract ? we do want to put GPs at the heart of neighbourhood health service , and we want people to have care close to home . there be benefit to primary care work at scale , so I would not want to criticise they for do that . the important thing be different course for different horse . some of we be much more mobile , more active and more online and would welcome that flexibility . for other , continuity of care that be close to home , or indeed in their home , be important . it be important that people get the right care , in the right place , at the right time , wherever they live , and that be what we will deliver . I be grateful for the consideration the Secretary of State have already give to find a fair and more effective way of compensate those injure by a covid vaccination , but he know that those who be profoundly affect by such injury be anxious for news . can he give I , and indeed they , a progress report ? I reassure the right hon . and learn Gentleman , the constituent of his I have meet and other campaigner that I be have discussion with the Cabinet Office about how we deal with that and other issue that have be raise this morning , include the sodium valproate scandal . he know the complexity involve , and I have be grateful for his advice as a former Attorney General . I do not have specific progress to report now , but I reassure he and campaigner that this issue have not go off the boil and we be work to find a resolution . the challenge of find and keep an NHS dentist be raise with I time and again across the Filton and Bradley Stoke constituency , and I welcome the early action that this Labour Government have take to introduce more than 19 , 000 urgent care appointment across our integrate care board area . what will be the next step to help ensure that NHS dentistry be open up again to everybody ? I thank my hon . friend for that question and her relentless campaigning on this issue . she be right that the 700 , 000 urgent dental appointment be a first step , and we be look to embed that so that it go forward every year of this Parliament . the broad issue be around contract reform . there be no perfect contract system — the current one clearly be not work — and we be look at option around sessional payment , capitation , and get a contract that work and bring dentist back into the NHS . the Secretary of State will know that my local ICB in Bedfordshire , Luton and Milton Keynes be set to merge with Hertfordshire , Cambridgeshire and Peterborough . the new ICB will cover a population of about 3 million people . give the difficulty we have have secure a gp surgery in Wixams , will the Secretary of State set out how supersizing that quango will help rural mid - Beds to get the local healthcare it need ? may I respectfully say that that be part of the problem with conservative thinking ? they think that the answer to the NHS crisis be more quango , and they measure success in the number of icb , not the number of appointment and the size of the waiting list . we be take a different approach , slash bureaucracy and reinveste in the front line . we be not centralise but decentralise , and cut waiting list — a record that the conservative party can not begin to touch . a couple of week ago at my constituency surgery , though tear my constituent Amy explain how , follow a hip operation in 2008 , she suffer progressive nerve damage due to repeat failure in diagnosis , referral and treatment . despite raise concern for year , she be tell that her pain be common . a nerve test in 2015 confirm damage , and further test last year show a significant deterioration . after 17 year she have only now be offer surgery . all Amy want to know be what step be be take to ensure that no other patient be leave permanently disabled due to such prolonged and systemic failure — order . that be very important , but why do the hon . Member not want other to get in ? first , on behalf of the NHS I apologise to my hon . friend ' s constituent . that be an intolerable situation , but sadly not rare or exceptional . there be too much of that happen , and a culture of cover - up and cover reputation , rather than be honest with patient about failure . we be change the culture . safety be at the heart of the 10 - year plan , and I would be delighted to talk to my hon . friend far about his constituent ' s case . this morning I attend an event about bladder cancer . bladder cancer be the fifth high killer in the United Kingdom , and people be anxious to meet the Minister and discuss those matter . will he agree to meet bladder cancer organisation to take forward their four objective to make thing well for people in the United Kingdom ? I be sure my hon . friend the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care ( Ashley Dalton ) , who be the Minister responsible for cancer , would be delighted to meet campaigner , particularly as we put together the national cancer plan . we want to ensure that we capture every type of cancer , and genuinely improve cancer care for everyone in our country . the Minister may have see my constituent Mollie Mulheron recently feature on " Newsnight " . our local ICB recently refuse her access to fertility treatment after recovery from an aggressive cancer with a high likelihood that her illness will return . will the Minister meet I and Mollie to discuss that issue , and access to fertility treatment for cancer survivor and patient ? yes , I will make sure that my hon . friend get that meeting . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . during proceeding of the House on 2 June 2025 , it become clear that some medium organisation have be give access to the strategic defence review document before Parliament . we also become aware that the timing of such early access may have be different for different organisation . I ask a parliamentary question on the matter of who and when , and although the Government do not answer the question , they make clear that trade association and think - tank have also be give early access . I ask again , and they refuse to answer but make clear that trade union and " our people " have be give early access . Mr Speaker , Ministers be require to answer question use the nolan principle , which include accountability and openness . the principle state : " information should not be withhold from the public unless there be clear and lawful reason for so do . " the Government have not follow these process in answer the question , and that be particularly relevant to the Minister for the Armed Forces , because in his declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , he declare membership of the GMB and Unite , and that a family member be work as a constituent for Babcock International , and that — order . the hon . Lady have raise a point of order with I , but she can not go into a full speech . I have get the message and I be very clear on the message . I have no responsibility for the quality of answer to write parliamentary question , but I know — this be key — that the Procedure Committee take a close interest in the matter . she might therefore like to raise it with the hon . member for Lancaster and Wyre ( Cat Smith ) , who chair the Committee . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . let I finish with this one , please . raise the matter with the Procedure Committee would be a good way to take this forward . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . we now know undoubtedly that the Sunday Times be give access to the White Paper , because people could read most of it in the Sunday Times the day before Parliament see it , although crucially the article do not mention up to 12 new ssn — nuclear - power attack submarine . I will explain in a quick second why that be important , Mr Speaker . at 10 . 30 on the Monday morning , journalist be invite to a reading room in Horse Guards Parade , where they be give access to the White Paper . section 8 . 11 of the " Ministerial Code " clearly state : " where commercially sensitive material be involve , no copy should be make available to the medium before publication . " thus , that be clearly a breach of the code . however , there be an early sitting in the reading room , at 8 am , when we know the White Paper be also see by member of defence company , trade association , academic , think - tank and trade unionist , at the same time that the market be open . Mr Speaker , there be a possibility of insider trading . the share price of Babcock , which would benefit from maintain ssn , leapt very early on after 8 am — order . but , Mr Speaker — no , no , no . please do not take advantage of the Chair . point of order be mean to be a little bit more punchy — they be not full - blow statement . I take very seriously the point that have be make , and that be why I raise they myself at the time . I be very grateful to the right hon . member for reiterate my word . I have no responsibility for the ministerial code . if the House so wish , that need to change , because unfortunately it make a nonsense . there be a ministerial code , but it be not be keep to as we would expect . it be for this House to change the ministerial code if it wish to do so , or I would be more than happy for the Government to change it if they can not accept it , because we can not have this continual breaking of the ministerial code . it be appalling and it be unacceptable . this be not a political point . in the end , I be here to uphold the right of Back Benchers . back Benchers should hear thing first — if document be to be give out , they should be give to mps . I be here to support mp , but unfortunately in this particular area I do not have the power to do so . I wish I have , because thing would be different . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I seek your advice . over the past few day , we have recognise Jo Cox ' s murder . give the additional focus and the encouragement of the targeting of mp use false information , can you advise we , as the person responsible for the safety of member of Parliament , how we , as member , should be behave , both in the Chamber and online ? we will never discuss Members ' security on the Floor of the House . if there be issue , member should please come to see I privately . let I see what I can do to reassure member , but I certainly do not want to open a debate , because I do not think that that would add to member ' safety . please come and see I privately . Bill present Multi - Storey Car Parks ( Safety ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Peter Dowd , support by Patrick Hurley , Kim Johnson , David Baines , Ian Byrne , Derek Twigg and Paula Barker present a Bill to increase the minimum require height of guard in multi - storey car park ; to make provision about the height of guard in exist multi - storey car park ; to require 24 hour staffing of multi - storey car park ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 4 July , and to be print ( Bill 264 ) . registration of Births ( Inclusion of Deceased Parents ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision for the inclusion of a parent ' s detail on a child ' s birth certificate where that parent have die before the birth of the child ; and for connected purpose . for the vast majority of parent , register the birth of their child be a straightforward process . it be a simple piece of paperwork that mark a special moment and bring important recognition of their new family , along with notable legal right . yet , for a number of woman every year , what should be an uncontroversial step in their journey as a parent become a protracted and traumatic legal battle . the law dictate that it be the duty of the parent to register the birth of a child within 42 day . for married couple , there be a presumption of paternity for the husband under the law . that mean either parent may register the birth unaccompanie by the other , with both still record on the birth certificate . therefore , in the terrible event that their husband die before the child be bear , a widow mother can still ensure their name be on the birth certificate , which be common sense . however , if the couple be unmarried , the law do not recognise their relationship in the same way . the fact that the mother do not have a ring on her finger mean there be no automatic recognition of paternity . if an unmarried woman experience the unimaginable tragedy of lose her partner during pregnancy , there be no provision for she to register they on the child ' s birth certificate . unless both parent can be present , the registrar be deem unable to verify the paternity of the father . while suffer the grief of lose a love one and face the new reality of parenthood alone , bereaved mother leave the register office with a blank space on their child ' s birth certificate , instead of their partner ' s name . in order to amend the birth certificate , bereaved mother have to seek a declaration of parentage through a lengthy , costly and traumatise legal process in the family court . in some respect , this be a legal loophole — the effect of improper and outdated legislation that have fail to provide for a certain set of particularly tragic circumstance — but it speak to a deep inequality in the legal system : unmarried couple be hold in low regard . the law in this area have not keep pace with societal change . the charity Widowed and Young first bring this injustice to my attention . it be an organisation that provide fantastic support to those who have experience widowhood early in life . I pay tribute to the hon . member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) who secure an Adjournment debate on this issue , and speak powerfully and movingly of her own experience of bereavement , and to my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) , who first expose the shortcoming of the legal process in Parliament in 2016 . the Bill seek to legislate for Widowed and Young ' s " Blank Space " campaign to come into existence , to provide a clear and simple process for unmarried and bereaved mother to register their partner on their child ' s birth certificate . through the charity , I have hear the story of brave and inspiring woman , some of whom be in the Gallery today to watch the proceeding . I would like to share their experience , which illustrate the emotional impact of this issue . when Kelly ' s partner , Jordan , die suddenly in 2020 , she go from plan their future to plan her fianc é ' s funeral . shortly after she give birth to their daughter , Kelly ' s battle begin to prove that Jordan be the father . as Kelly say , he have want " nothing more out of his life than to have kid " , so she be determined that his name would be on Maisie ' s birth certificate . Kelly use a C63 form to apply for a declaration of parentage through the family court , which come with an immediate cost of £ 365 . while have to provide dna from Jordan ' s mother and pay out hundred of pound in legal fee , Kelly be also ask demeaning question , such as whether she have have any other partner . after fight for two year , Kelly receive a birth certificate for her daughter Maisie with Jordan ' s name on it . she now keep 12 copy of it around the house and one in her purse at all time . Orlanda and her partner Julian be on holiday when he unexpectedly collapse . just a day after discover they be expect a baby girl , Julian die from a heart attack . when the registrar tell Orlanda that Julian would not be name on her daughter ' s birth certificate , she say it feel as if he have be " rip from our history " . her process through the court take two year and four hearing . many of the judge she encounter have never even come across a situation like hers , and she be often ask at hearing if Julian would be attend . as an ambassador for Widowed and Young , Orlanda say she be determined to make thing easy for woman who follow in her path . let I turn to Sophie , who be still in the midst of this torturous process . the sudden death of her partner Lawrence while she be pregnant with their daughter Kinley turn her world upside down . despite their have two child together , and Lawrence be legally register as the father of both , Sophie be tell that Lawrence would not be register as Kinley ' s father . she be devastate . register their son together in 2016 be one of Lawrence ' s proud moment . as Sophie say , " he will always be her dad " , and he should be recognise as such . Sophie enter the uphill battle of amend the birth certificate , and be bounce between Departments and adviser until someone at the Children and Family Court Advisory and Support Service intervene on her behalf . her hearing be at the magistrate court on 3 July and will hopefully bring she some closure on this issue . Sophie say the experience have be " exhausting , confusing and emotionally drain . " I add my personal thank to the woman who join we today for share their brave story , and for allow I to share they with the House . Kelly , Orlanda and Sophie ' s story show how traumatic and unnecessarily complex the process be . widow and Young estimate that this issue affect as many as 200 woman each year . while the woman who join we today have persevere through the family court , many mother will give up out of frustration , leave that blank space on their child ' s birth certificate . the system for register birth be govern by section 10 of the Births and Deaths Registration Act 1953 and section 55A of the Family Law Act 1986 , which make provision for those require a declaration of parentage . neither of those act provide for the specific circumstance in which one parent be deceased and a child be bear outside of marriage . a declaration of parentage be not intend to prove the paternity of a deceased partner , but rather to resolve dispute parenthood . this legal framework be unfit for purpose . when the Births and Deaths Registration Act become law in 1953 , 95 % of birth register in the UK be within a marriage . that figure have reduce steadily ever since , and only half of child be now bear within marriage . time have change and society have move on , yet the law have not keep pace . this Bill would drag the legislation into the 21st century , and provide a clear and simple process for register a deceased partner ' s name on a birth certificate . we can achieve that by place great reliance on a registrar ' s professional judgement . with the right evidence , registrar be allow to amend a birth certificate , so we can similarly empower they to correct the absence of a deceased parent , provide that they receive sufficient evidence of intended parenthood . across Europe — in Switzerland , France and Germany — unmarried parent be encourage to register their parentage at antenatal appointment . a similar system could be create here , and a declaration of intended parentage could be make during pregnancy . I do not contest the importance of have a rigorous process for prove intended parenthood , but that importance be an argument in support of a change in the law , not against it , because that process be currently non - existent . official be often unable to advise woman on how to register their deceased partner as a parent , because there be no guidance . while there remain no clear route to prove intended parenthood , bereave unmarried mother be be deny a basic right . the anachronistic legal framework be cause immense trauma for mother and child . this Bill would take direct action to address that injustice , provide a clear process for bereaved mother to follow , and allow the registrar to include a deceased partner on their child ' s birth certificate . that small change in the law would make a huge difference . it would spare grieve woman a needlessly painful legal process , and ensure that no mother or child have a blank space on their birth certificate where their parent ' s name should rightly be . question put and agree to . order , that Ms Stella Creasy , Caroline Voaden , Alice Macdonald , John Grady , Chris Vince , Abtisam Mohamed , Kirith Entwistle , Dr Marie Tidball , David Burton - Sampson , Daniel Francis , Charlotte Nichols and Jen Craft present the Bill . Jen Craft accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 11 July , and to be print ( Bill 263 ) . crime and Policing Bill ( Programme ) ( no . 2 ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 9 ) ) , that the order of 10 March 2025 ( Crime and Policing Bill : Programme ) be varied as follow : ( 1 ) paragraph ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) of the order shall be omit . ( 2 ) proceeding on consideration and Third reading shall be take in two day in accordance with the follow provision of this order . ( 3 ) proceeding on consideration — ( a ) shall be take on each of those day in the order show in the first column of the following table , and ( b ) shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the time specify in the second column of the table . first day new clause and new Schedules stand in the name of a Minister of the Crown ; amendment to clause 1 to 165 and schedule 1 to 18 , other than amendment relate to abortion . three hour before the moment of interruption on the first day . new clause and new schedule relate to abortion ; amendment relate to abortion . the moment of interruption on the first day . second day remain new clause and new schedule ; amendment to clause 166 to 172 , other than amendment relate to abortion ; remain proceeding on consideration . one hour before the moment of interruption on the second day . ( 4 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on the second day . — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) question agree to . crime and Policing Bill 1st allocate day consideration of Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee [ relevant document : Fourth Report of the Women and Equalities Committee , tackle non - consensual intimate image abuse , HC 336 , and the Government response , HC 911 ; correspondence from the Women and Equalities Committee to the parliamentary Under - Secretary of State , Ministry of Justice , on tackle non - consensual intimate image abuse , report to the House on 4 June ] New Clause 52 - offence of trespassing with intent to commit criminal offence " ( 1 ) a person commit an offence if the person trespass on any premise with intent to commit an offence ( whether or not on the premise ) . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 1 ) " premise " mean any building , part of a building or enclose area . ( 3 ) a person who commit an offence under this section be liable on summary conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceed 3 month or a fine not exceed level 3 on the standard scale ( or both ) . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this amendment replace an offence in section 4 of the Vagrancy Act 1824 which be repeal by section 81 of the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 ( not yet in force ) . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow : government new clause 53 — arrange or facilitate beg for gain . government new clause 54 — prove an offence under section 38 . government new clause 55 — special measure for witness . government new clause 56 — cause internal concealment of item for criminal purpose . government new clause 57 — Secretary of State guidance . government new clause 58 — Department of Justice guidance . government new clause 59 — Removal of limitation period in child sexual abuse case . government new clause 60 — threatening , abusive or insult behaviour towards emergency worker . government new clause 61 — threaten or abusive behaviour likely to harass , alarm or distress emergency worker . government new clause 62 — interpretation of section ( threatening , abusive or insult behaviour towards emergency worker ) and ( threatening or abusive behaviour likely to harass , alarm or distress emergency worker ) . government new clause 63 — extraction of online information follow seizure of electronic device . government new clause 64 — section ( extraction of online information follow seizure of electronic device ) : supplementary . government new clause 65 — section ( extraction of online information follow seizure of electronic device ) : interpretation . government new clause 66 — section ( extraction of online information follow seizure of electronic device ) : confidential information . government new clause 67 — section ( extraction of online information follow seizure of electronic device ) : code of practice . government new clause 68 — extraction of online information : port and border security . government new clause 69 — extraction of online information follow agreement etc . government new clause 70 — lawful interception of communication . government new clause 71 — law enforcement employer may not employ etc bar person . government new clause 72 — meaning of " law enforcement employer " . government new clause 73 — application of section ( Law enforcement employer may not employ etc bar person ) to Secretary of State . government new clause 74 — application of section ( Law enforcement employer may not employ etc bar person ) to specify law enforcement employer . government new clause 75 — duty of law enforcement employer to check advisory list . government new clause 76 — application of section ( Duty of law enforcement employer to check advisory list ) to specify law enforcement employer . government new clause 77 — Interpretation of section ( law enforcement employer may not employ etc bar person ) to ( application of section ( Duty of law enforcement employer to check advisory list ) to specify law enforcement employer ) . government new clause 78 — special police force : bar person list and advisory list . government new clause 79 — consequential amendment . government new clause 80 — power to give direction to critical police undertaking . government new clause 81 — port and border security : retention and copying of article . government new clause 82 — extradition : case where a person have be convict . government new schedule 1 — amendment to chapter 3 of Part 2 of the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 . government new schedule 2 — confiscation order : Scotland . government new schedule 3 — special police force : bar person list and advisory list . amendment 157 , in clause 1 , page 1 , line 6 , leave out " the Anti - social " and insert — " subject to a review of exist anti - social behaviour power under the Anti - social Behaviour Act 2014 be conduct and complete by the Secretary of State within six month of this Act receive Royal Assent , the Anti - social " . amendment 167 , page 1 , line 13 , leave out " 18 " and insert " 16 " . this amendment would lower the age to 16 at which a court can impose a respect order on a person to prevent they from engage in anti - social behaviour . amendment 168 , page 2 , line 29 , at end insert — " ( 9A ) if a court make a respect order against a person ( p ) more than once , then p be liable to a fine not exceed level 3 on the standard scale . " this amendment mean that if a person get more than one respect Order , they be liable for a fine . amendment 169 , page 2 , line 30 , leave out from " behaviour " to end of line 31 and insert " have the same meaning as under section 2 of this Act . " this amendment would give " anti - social behaviour " in clause 1 the same definition as in section 2 of the Anti - social Behaviour , Crime and Policing Act 2014 . amendment 170 , page 4 , line 18 , at end insert — " D1 Power to move person down list for social housing ( 1 ) a respect order may have the effect of move any application the respondent may have for social housing to the end of the waiting list . " this amendment would mean that a person who receive a respect order would move to the bottom of the waiting list for social housing , if applicable . amendment 171 , page 8 , line 2 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) a person who commit further offence under this section be liable — ( a ) on summary conviction , to imprisonment for a term not exceed the general limit in a magistrate ' court or a fine ( or both ) ; ( b ) on conviction on indictment , to imprisonment for a period not exceed 5 year or a fine ( or both ) . " " this amendment set out the penalty for repeat breach of a respect order with a prison sentence of up to 5 year . amendment 158 , in clause 2 , page 9 , line 35 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) prior to issue any guidance under this section , the Secretary of State must conduct a full consultation exercise . " amendment 2 , in clause 8 , page 17 , line 23 , insert — " ( 3 ) to facilitate the ability of the Police , under the provision of section 59 of the Police Reform Act 2002 , as amend by subsection ( 1 ) , to seize e - scooter or e - bike that have be use in a manner which have cause alarm , distress or annoyance , the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , issue a consultation on a registration scheme for the sale of electric bike and electric scooter . ( 4 ) the consultation must consider the merit of — ( a ) require seller to record the detail of buyer , and ( b ) verifying that buyer have purchase insurance . " Amendment 172 , in clause 9 , page 17 , line 34 , at end insert — " ( c ) section 33b ( section 33 offence : clean - up cost ) . " Amendment 173 , page 17 , line 34 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) Guidance issue about the enforcement of section 33 offence must ensure that , where a person be convict of a relevant offence , they be liable for the cost incur through loss or damage result from the offence . " this amendment would ensure the Secretary of State ' s guidance on fly - tipping make the person responsible for fly - tipping , rather than the landowner , liable for the cost of clean up . amendment 174 , page 18 , line 3 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) the consultation undertake by the Secretary of State must include an examination of establish a penalty point fine to those find convict of an offence under section 33 or 87 of the Environmental Protection Act 1990 . " this amendment would require the Secretary of State to consult on establish a system for those who fly tip or leave litter to receive penalty point on their driving licence . amendment 175 , in clause 25 , page 30 , line 24 , leave out " 4 " and insert " 14 " . this amendment would increase the maximum sentence for possession of a weapon with intent to commit unlawful violence from four to 14 year . the Independent Reviewer of Terrorism Legislation recommend an increase in his review follow the Southport attack . government amendment 24 to 33 . amendment 176 , in clause 35 , page 50 , line 38 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) if the offender have previous conviction for an offence under section 14 of the Crime and Policing Act 2025 ( assault of a retail worker ) or for shoplift under section 1 of the Theft Act 1968 , the court must make a community order against the offender . the community order must include a tag , a ban , or a curfew . " this amendment clause would require the court to make a community order against repeat offender of retail crime in order to restrict the offender ' s liberty . government amendment 34 . amendment 4 , in clause 38 , page 51 , line 29 , leave out " criminal conduct " and insert " conduct for criminal purpose " . this amendment would expand the remit of the offence create under clause 38 to include exploit a child into conduct for criminal purpose . amendment 7 , page 51 , line 31 , leave out paragraph ( b ) . this amendment would remove the requirement that for an offence of child criminal exploitation to be commit , the perpetrator do not reasonably believe that the child be age 18 or over . government amendment 35 . amendment 5 , in clause 38 , page 51 , line 37 , leave out " criminal conduct " and insert " conduct for criminal purpose " . this amendment would expand the remit of the offence create under clause 38 to include exploit a child into conduct for criminal purpose . it be consequential on Amendment 4 . amendment 6 , page 52 , line 2 , leave out " or " and insert — " ( b ) activity that be undertake in order to facilitate or enable an offence under the law of England and Wales , or . " this amendment would expand the remit of the offence create under clause 38 to include exploit a child into conduct for criminal purpose . government amendment 36 to 49 . amendment 8 , in clause 53 , page 61 , line 5 , after " ( a ) " insert " " aged 18 or over " . this amendment would ensure child can not commit an offence of cuckooing . government amendment 50 to 66 . government motion to transfer subsection ( 4 ) of clause 59 . government amendment 68 and 69 . amendment 177 , in clause 64 , page 73 , line 24 , at end insert — " 4A ) for the purpose of this section — " child " mean a person under the age of 18 . " groom " mean meeting or communicating ( in person or online ) with a child and or their network ( on one or more occasion ) with a view to intentionally arrange or facilitate child sexual abuse ( in person or online ) for an act include themselves or other . " this amendment would introduce a legal definition of grooming . amendment 178 , page 74 , line 31 , at end insert — " 70B Group - base sexual grooming of a child ( 1 ) this section apply where — ( a ) a court be consider the seriousness of a specified child sex offence , ( b ) the offence be aggravate by group - base grooming , and ( c ) the offender be age 18 or over when the offence be commit . ( 2 ) the court — ( a ) must treat the fact that the offence be aggravate by group - base grooming as an aggravate factor , and ( b ) must state in court that the offence be so aggravated . ( 3 ) an offence be " aggravate by group - base grooming " if — ( a ) the offence be facilitate by , or involve , the offender , who be involve in group - base grooming , or ( b ) the offence be facilitate by , or involve , a person other than the offender groom a person under the age of 18 and the offender know , or could have reasonably be expect to know that say person be participate , or facilitate group - base grooming , or ( c ) the offender intentionally arrange or facilitate something that the offender intend to do , intend another person to do , or believe that another person will do , in order to participate in group - base grooming . ( 4 ) in this section " specify child sex offence " mean — ( a ) an offence within any of subsection ( 5 ) to ( 7 ) , or ( b ) an inchoate offence in relation to any such offence . ( 5 ) an offence be within this subsection if it be — ( a ) an offence under section 1 of the Protection of Children Act 1978 ( take etc indecent photograph of child ) , ( b ) an offence under section 160 of the Criminal Justice Act 1988 ( possession of indecent photograph of child ) , ( c ) an offence under any of section 5 to 8 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 ( rape and other offence against child under 13 ) , ( d ) an offence under any section 9 to 12 of that Act ( other child 25 sex offence ) , ( e ) an offence under section 14 of that Act ( arrange or facilitate commission of child sex offence ) , ( f ) an offence under any of section 16 to 19 of that Act ( abuse of position of trust ) , ( g ) an offence under section 25 or 26 of that Act ( familial child sex offence ) , or ( h ) an offence under any of section 47 to 50 of that Act ( sexual exploitation of child ) . ( 6 ) an offence be within this subsection if it be — ( a ) an offence under any of section 1 to 4 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 ( rape , assault and cause sexual activity without consent ) , ( b ) an offence under any of section 30 to 41 of that Act ( sexual offence relate to person with mental disorder ) , ( c ) an offence under any of section 61 to 63 of that Act ( preparatory offence ) , or ( d ) an offence under any of section 66 to 67a of that Act ( exposure and voyeurism ) , and the victim or intended victim be under the age of 18 . ( 7 ) an offence be within this subsection if it be an offence under section 71 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 ( sexual activity in a public lavatory ) and a person involve in the activity in question be under the age of 18 . ( 8 ) for the purpose of this section — ( a ) " group - base grooming " be define as a group of at least three adult whose purpose or intention be to commit a sexual offence against the same victim or group of victim who be under 18 , or could reasonably be expect to be under 18 . " this amendment would introduce a specific aggravate factor in sentencing for those who participate in , or facilitate , group - base sexual offending . amendment 159 , in clause 65 , page 74 , line 39 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) and insert — " ( 2 ) an officer may seek independent judicial authorisation to engage in conduct which be for the purpose of obtain datum from the person . ( 2A ) authorise conduct may consist of an officer — ( a ) scan the information store on the device use technology approve by the Secretary of State for the purpose of ascertain whether information store on an electronic device include child sexual abuse image , ( b ) require the person to permit the scan , and ( c ) require the person to take such step as appear necessary to allow the scan to be perform . " this amendment subject any search of electronic device to prior authorisation by a judge . amendment 179 , in clause 66 , page 75 , line 16 , leave out subsection ( 7 ) . this amendment would keep an individual under the duty to report child abuse despite the belief that someone else may have report the abuse to the relevant authority . amendment 3 , page 75 , line 31 , at end insert — " ( 2 ) the duty under subsection ( 1 ) apply to — ( a ) any person undertake work for the Church of England , the Roman Catholic Church , or any other christian denomination on either a paid or voluntary basis , ( b ) any clergy of the Church of England , the Roman Catholic Church , or any other christian denomination , notwithstanding any canonical law regard the seal of confession , and ( c ) any person undertake work on either a paid or voluntary basis , or hold a leadership position , within the Buddhist , hindu , jewish , Muslim or Sikh faith , or any other religion , faith or belief system . " this amendment would ensure that the duty to report suspect child sex abuse cover everyone work for the Church of England and the Roman Catholic Church whether pay or on a voluntary basis , include clergy , as well as all other faith group . report receive by clergy through confession would not be exempt from the duty to report . amendment 10 , page 76 , line 28 , at end insert — " ( 10 ) a person who fail to fulfil the duty under subsection ( 1 ) commit an offence . ( 11 ) a person who commit an offence under this section be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceed level 5 on the standard scale . " this amendment would implement part of recommendation 13 of the Independent Inquiry into Child Sexual Abuse that a failure to report a suspect child sex offence should be a criminal offence . amendment 22 , page 77 , line 13 , at end insert " or ( c ) an activity involve a " position of trust " as define in section 21 , 22 and 22a of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 . " this amendment would implement part of recommendation 13 of the Independent Inquiry into child Sex Abuse that any person work in a position of trust as define by the Sexual Offences Act 2003 , should be designate a mandatory reporter . amendment 11 , in clause 68 , page 78 , line 19 , at end insert — " ( 7 ) the sixth case be where p witness a child display sexualise , sexually harmful or other behaviour , physical sign of abuse or consequence of sexual abuse , such as pregnancy or a sexually transmit disease , to an extent that would cause a reasonable person who engage in the same relevant activity as p to suspect that a child sex offence may have be commit . ( 8 ) the seventh case be where p witness a person ( a ) behave in the presence of a child in a way that would cause a reasonable person who engage in the same relevant activity as p to suspect that a may have commit a child sex offence . ( 9 ) a failure to comply with the duty under subsection ( 1 ) be not an offence where the reason to suspect that a child sex offence may have be commit arise from subsection ( 7 ) or subsection ( 8 ) . " this amendment would implement part of recommendation 13 of the Independent Inquiry into child Sex Abuse that there should be a duty to report where a person recognise the indicator of child sexual abuse . failure to report in these instance would not attract a criminal sanction . government amendment 70 . amendment 9 , in clause 80 , page 84 , line 22 , at end insert — " ( b ) if the name change be by deed poll , 7 day prior to submit an application for change of name ( whichever be early ) , or " . this amendment would require relevant sex offender to notify the police of an intention to change a name 7 day before make an application to do so by deed poll . amendment 180 , page 85 , line 26 , at end insert — " ( 11 ) if a relevant offender do not comply with the requirement of this section , they shall be liable to a fine not exceed level 4 on the standard scale . " this amendment impose a fine of up to £ 2 , 500 if a registered sex offender do not notify the police when they change their name . amendment 181 , in clause 81 , page 86 , line 41 , at end insert — " ( 10 ) if a relevant offender do not comply with the requirement of this section , they shall be liable to a fine not exceed level 4 on the standard scale . " this amendment impose a fine of up to £ 2 , 500 if a registered sex offender do not notify the police when they be absent from their sole or main residence . amendment 182 , in clause 82 , page 88 , line 25 , at end insert — " ( 9 ) if a relevant offender do not comply with the requirement of this section , they shall be liable to a fine at Level 5 of the standard scale . " this amendment impose an unlimited fine if a relevant register sex offender do not notify police if they be enter a premise where child be present . government amendment 71 to 73 . amendment 19 , in clause 94 , page 115 , line 25 , at end insert " , or ( c ) the person do so be reckless as to whether another person will be injure , aggrieve or annoyed . " this amendment would expand the offence for administer harmful substance , include by spike , to include those who do so be reckless . amendment 20 , in clause 95 , page 116 , line 37 , at end insert — " ( 6a ) in determine a sentence for an offence commit under this section , the Court be to treat encouragement or assistance of self - harm , when precede by a history of abuse perpetrate against the victim / other person by D , as an aggravating factor . ( 6b ) the criminal liability for D , when the other person mention in subsection 1 ( a ) or 1 ( b ) commit suicide , and where D have subject that person to physical , psychiatric or psychological harm , be the offence of murder . " this amendment treat encouragement or assistance of serious self - harm when precede by a history of abuse as an aggravating factor in sentencing with explicit recognition of murder as the criminal liability for perpetrator who cause serious physical , psychiatric , or psychological harm that directly result in , or significantly contribute to , suicide . government amendment 74 to 76 . amendment 14 , in clause 102 , page 124 , line 16 , leave out from subsection ( 1 ) to " where " in line 29 and insert — " ( 1 ) a person who possess a SIM farm without good reason or lawful authority commit an offence . for the meaning of ' SIM farm ' , see section 104 . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 1 ) the reference to a good reason for possess a SIM farm include in particular possess it for a purpose connect with — ( a ) provide broadcasting service , ( b ) operate or maintain a public transport service , ( c ) operate or maintain an electronic communication network ( as define by section 32 of the Communications Act 2003 ) , ( d ) track freight or monitor it in any other way , or ( e ) provide or support an internet access service or the conveyance of signal ( as define by section 32 of the Communications Act 2003 ) . this subsection do not limit subsection ( 1 ) . ( 3 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) , " . this amendment would mean that a person would only commit an offence if they possess a SIM farm without a good reason , such as for broadcasting purpose , or lawful authority . amendment 15 , in clause 103 , page 124 , line 37 , leave out from subsection ( 1 ) to " prove " on page 125 , line 2 , and insert — " ( 1 ) a person who supply a SIM farm to another person commit an offence unless subsection ( 2 ) apply . ( 2 ) it be not an offence for a person to supply a SIM farm under this section provide the person ( ' the supplier ' ) can " . this amendment would mean that a person would only commit an offence if they supply a SIM farm without take reasonable step to confirm that the person receive the SIM farm would have a good reason , include for broadcasting purpose , or lawful authority to possess the SIM farm . amendment 16 , in clause 104 , page 125 , line 34 , after " interchangeably , " insert " and design primarily " and line 39 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) , a device be not a SIM farm if it use five or more SIM card simultaneously or interchangeably for the purpose of provide datum only service or internet access service or conveyance service . " this amendment would amend the meaning of " SIM farm " to cover only device that be primarily use for call and text message and would exclude device primarily use for datum connectivity such as Bonded Cellular Devices use by broadcaster . amendment 164 , page 128 , line 5 , leave out clause 108 . amendment 184 , in clause 108 , page 128 , line 10 , leave out line 10 and 11 and insert — " ( 2 ) no offence be commit under this section where a person wear or otherwise use the item for — " this amendment would ensure that clause 108 do not apply to people wear the hijab , niqab or wear a mask for health reason . amendment 185 , page 128 , line 25 , at end insert — " ( 6 ) within a year of this section come into force , the Secretary of State must review the equality impact of the provision of this section , and lie a report of the review before both Houses of Parliament within a month of its publication . " this amendment would require the Secretary of State to review the equality impact of the provision of clause 108 . amendment 165 , page 128 , line 26 , leave out clause 109 . Amendment 166 , page 129 , line 28 , leave out clause 110 . government amendment 77 to 86 . amendment 161 , page 131 , line 29 , leave out clause 114 . this amendment would delete Clause 114 which would place restriction on the right to protest near place of worship . amendment 160 , in clause 115 , page 133 , line 12 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) prior to impose condition under either Section 12 or 14 , the senior officer of the Police Force in question must confirm that live facial recognition will not be in use , unless a new code of practice for the use of live facial recognition surveillance in public space in England and Wales have previously be present to , and approve by , both Houses of Parliament . " Amendment 21 , in clause 120 , page 140 , line 37 , at end insert — " ( 8 ) the authorise person list in clause 71a may not use the information reference in subsection ( 1 ) for the purpose of biometric search use facial recognition technology " Government amendment 87 . amendment 162 , page 148 , line 1 , leave out clause 126 . amendment 163 , in clause 126 , page 148 , line 13 , at end insert — " ( 3 ) within a year of this section come into force , the Secretary of State must review the human right and equality impact of the provision of this section , and lie the report of the review before both Houses of Parliament within a month of its publication . " government amendment 88 to 91 . amendment 183 , in clause 141 , page 168 , line 5 , leave out subsection ( 7 ) and insert — " ( 7a ) a youth diversion order must specify the period for which it have effect , up to a maximum of 12 month . ( 7b ) an assessment must be take of the respondent before the conclusion of a youth diversion order to determine if they continue to hold extremist view or pose a terror threat . ( 7C ) an assessment must be make by a qualified expert in extremism and counterterrorism . ( 7d ) assessment take by the respondent ' s youth offend team must be review by an external expert with no pre - exist relationship to the respondent . ( 7E ) if the respondent be assess as hold extremist view or as a terror threat the youth offend team or a chief officer of police must apply to an appropriate court for the youth offend order to be extend up to a maximum of 12 month . ( 7F ) all provision , prohibition and requirement of a youth diversion order remain in effect until the respondent have be assess as hold no extremist view or pose a terror threat . " this amendment would give the police the ability to apply for youth diversion order in case of youth extremism and terror risk . the diversion order would conclude automatically after a maximum of twelve month without an assessment as to whether the individual remain a terror risk or extremist . government amendment 92 to 101 , and 134 to 151 . amendment 23 , in schedule 9 , page 229 , line 15 , at end insert — " ( 11 ) section 127 of the Magistrates ' Courts Act 1980 ( time limit for summary offence ) do not apply to an offence under subsection ( 1 ) . " this amendment allow the offence of take or record intimate photograph or film to be try by a Magistrates ' Court at any time by disapplye the six - month time limit in s . 127 of the Magistrates ' Court Act 1980 . government amendment 152 to 156 and 102 to 133 . before I speak to the key Government amendment table on Report , I quickly remind the House why the Government have bring forward this Bill . it be a vital part of our safe street mission , and contain a host of measure to tackle antisocial behaviour , retail and knife crime , and the epidemic of violence against woman and girl , and to restore confidence and trust in police . it be worth remind the House that on the previous Government ' s watch , shoplift soar to record - high level ; there be a 70 % increase in their last two year in office alone . street theft be rapidly rise ; it be up by almost 60 % in just the last two year . antisocial behaviour be rampant in our town and city , with 1 million incident last year . in the year to June 2024 , the crime survey of England and Wales estimate that 25 % of people perceive antisocial behaviour to be a fairly or very big problem in their area . that be the high level since at least March 2013 , over a decade ago . violence and abuse against shop worker be at epidemic level . the British Retail Consortium say that incident of violence and abuse against shop worker stand at more than 2 , 000 a day in ' 23 - 24 — up by almost 50 % on the previous year , and nearly treble the pre - pandemic figure from 2019 to 2020 . I have be down to the local Co - op in Chesterfield and meet one of the shop worker , who face a terrible attack . luckily , the people be jail , but in so many case there be a sense that shoplifter be able to walk out the door without anything be do . the traumatic effect that this have on shop worker have to be see to be believe . would the Minister say that the message the Bill send to anyone who want to walk out of a store after do these thing be that the police will come after they , and they will end up go to jail ? my hon . friend put that very well . attack on retail worker be totally unacceptable . the Co - op and the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers have do important work to highlight this issue and ensure that measure on it will be enact through the Bill . the previous Conservative Government write off a number of the crime type I have just talk about as low - level crime , and allow they to spiral out of control . at the same time , they decimate local neighbourhood policing team , cause untold damage to our community , as we all know . on neighbourhood policing , I welcome the fact that we have some extra capacity come into the west midland , but I have not yet have clarification on whether the money that be come to the west midland will cover all the extra national insurance cost . the Labour police and crime commissioner be already say that his budget be underfunde under the Labour Government . the right hon . Lady and I have have this discussion before , and I have make it very clear that the national insurance increase have be fund through the money that be available to police force this year . that be in stark contrast to the situation under the previous Government , who do not make a proper allocation for the police pay award for last year . this Government have to supplement it when we come into power in July . will the Minister join I in celebrate the five new neighbourhood police officer we have in Harlow ? I can not take all the credit for they , because I only teach one of they math . absolutely . I think we will have 3 , 000 additional neighbourhood police officer by the end of March next year , as part of our commitment to put in place 13 , 000 neighbourhood police officer by the end of this Parliament . it have be clear throughout the Bill ' s passage that it command broad support across the House . I hope that over the next two day , right hon . and hon . member from all part of the House can come together and recognise the share goal that the Bill fulfil . the Government be tireless in our drive to make our street safe . the right hon . Lady be set out very clearly what the Bill be intend to be , and have rightly point to the cross - party support for the main thrust of it . do she agree that that unanimity of purpose be put in grave jeopardy by the Christmas tree - ing of significant amendment relate to abortion ? I know that she have a personal interest in this issue in opposition . these very dramatic change to abortion law require a much full debate in this place than can be have on an amendment to a Bill that have the purpose that the right hon . Lady have set out . the Government never intend the Bill to be a Christmas tree Bill , but it have become one . the House run the risk of fracture its unanimity of purpose if those amendment be press to a vote and become part of the legislation . I do not want to try Mr Speaker ' s patience , but time have be allocate for that debate this afternoon . the hon . Gentleman be a very experienced Member of this House , and he will know that crime Bills often become Christmas tree bill due to their very nature , as member wish to table amendment on all sort of area of the criminal law . we have the Bill that be before we , and the amendment that have be table . the Government and , I hope , other party in this House be commit to make our street safe . where there be gap in the law , we will not hesitate to address they , and the Government amendment that have be table be very much direct to our achieving that end . I will start by go through they . new clause 54 will aid legal certainty and the consistent application of the new offence of child criminal exploitation . the new clause make clear to the court that the offence be focus on the criminal intention of the adult only , rather than those of the child . it put beyond doubt that the offence capture circumstance in which the child be use as an entirely innocent agent and can not satisfy all the element of the intend criminal conduct themselves . the new clause also put beyond doubt that the offence be capable of capture early - stage grooming ; as such , it address the concern raise in amendment 4 to 6 , table by the hon . member for Brighton Pavilion ( Si â n Berry ) . it will also cover perpetrator who arrange for another person to exploit a child on their behalf . at the request of the Scottish Government and the Department of Justice in Northern Ireland , we be also extend the offence of child criminal exploitation to Scotland and Northern Ireland . new clause 56 criminalise the highly exploitative and harmful practice of coerce internal concealment . it be commonly associate with county line drug dealing , and involve a child or adult be intentionally cause to conceal drug or other object — such as weapon or SIM card — inside their body to facilitate criminality . the new clause create two new offence . the first target perpetrator who intentionally cause a child to conceal a specify item inside their body . the second apply in case where an adult victim be cause to internally conceal a specify item through compulsion , coercion or deception , or through control or manipulative behaviour , and where the perpetrator intend , know or reasonably suspect that the item have be or may be use in connection with criminal conduct . these new offence will carry a maximum penalty of up to 10 year ' imprisonment . new clause 57 , which would replace clause 52 , would enable the Secretary of State to issue statutory guidance to the police and other in respect of the exercise of their function relate to the new coerced internal concealment and cuckooing offence , as well as the child criminal exploitation offence and prevention order . new clause 58 confer a similar power on the Department of Justice to issue statutory guidance to the chief constable of the Police Service of Northern Ireland in relation to the exercise of its function relate to the CCE and cuckooing offence . clause 53 create an offence of control another person ' s home for criminal purpose , know as cuckooing . the offence apply UK - wide . clause 56 then add the cuckooing offence to the list of lifestyle offence in schedule 4 to the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 , which apply to Scotland . parallel change be make to schedule 2 and 5 of poca , which apply to England and Wales and to Northern Ireland respectively . at the request of the Scottish Government , amendment 57 to clause 56 remove the amendment to schedule 4 to POCA . clause 57 create a new offence that criminalise the making , possession , adaptation or supply of digital file or model design to create child sexual abuse material . the offence apply to England and Wales . amendment 59 to 68 to clause 57 well provide for protection from liability for the offence for the provider of an internet service who act as a mere conduit for , or who cache or unknowingly host , a CSA image generator provide by a user . they extend liability to a natural person who be responsible for a body corporate , partnership or unincorporated association commit the offence . they remove the definition of a CSA image generator that be a service ; on reflection , we have conclude that a CSA image generator can not be use as a service , as an offender would require possession of the generator to use it . finally , they amend the scope of the power to make regulation govern the testing of technology that might amount to a CSA image generator , to ensure the power be correctly target . clause 59 provide for an offence of administer or moderating of electronic service with the intention of facilitate child sexual exploitation and abuse . the term " child sexual exploitation and abuse " be in part define by reference to a list of offence in schedule 7 to the Bill . new subsection ( 6 ) to ( 8 ) of clause 59 add a regulation - make power , subject to the draft affirmative procedure . this be to ensure that the list of offence can be keep up to date , particularly when new offence be create by act of the Scottish Parliament or of the Northern Ireland Assembly . in addition , amendment to schedule 7 add further scottish offence to the list of child sexual exploitation and abuse offence specify for the purpose of clause 59 . these amendment apply UK - wide . clause 76 confer power on the Secretary of State to issue statutory guidance about the disclosure of information by the police for the purpose of prevent sex offence . chief officer of police be require to have regard to that guidance . this provision apply to police force in England and Wales , to the British Transport police — which operate GB - wide — and to the Ministry of Defence police , which operate UK - wide . at the request of the Scottish Government , amendment 70 limit the clause ' s application to the BTP to England and Wales only . alongside the new offence in this Bill to tackle intimate image abuse , the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill include an offence of request the creation of a purported intimate image without consent or reasonable belief in consent , include provision relate to the power of the civilian court to deprive offender of image and other property . to ensure consistency in the service justice system , an amendment be require to the Armed Forces Act 2006 to give the same deprivation order power to service court . amendment to the Act require consent from british overseas territory and Crown dependency — to which the Act apply — which it be not possible to gain in time during the passage of the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill . we therefore propose to make the amendment in this Bill instead . the Bill be amend in Committee to provide for offence relate to dangerous and careless cycling . amendment 74 to 76 make various consequential amendment to the Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988 and other enactment . clause 120 clarify the exist power of the Secretary of State to give access to driver license information hold by the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency to various policing and law enforcement body , for policing and law enforcement purpose . amendment 87 make employee of the economic crime and confiscation unit in Jersey authorise person for the purpose of these provision . the Bill apply to England and Wales , but it be important for knowledge and information to be share with the Northern Ireland Assembly and the Scottish Parliament , for example , so that they be aware of what be happen here — and people may move from England or Wales to Northern Ireland or Scotland . we should ensure that information can be exchange between police force and other authority here and those in the devolved administration : if we want security and safety for all our people , that really need to happen . I entirely agree with the hon . Gentleman about the importance of share information , good practice and policy development , and I hope that that will go from strength to strength under this government . let I now say something about abusive behaviour towards emergency worker . as we all know , they put themselves in harm ' s way to protect we every day , and they deserve robust protection in return . that include protection from racial and religious abuse , which be not only deeply harmful but undermine the value of decency , respect and public service . unlike most people , emergency worker can not walk away from abuse . when they enter private home they do so not by choice , but because it be their duty to do so . whether they be respond to a 999 call , provide urgent medical care or attend an incident involve risk to life or property , they be legally and professionally require to remain and act . they can not remove themselves from the situation simply because they be be abuse . the law must recognise that and ensure that they be properly protect in every setting , include private dwelling . at present , there be a clear and press gap in the law . although existing legislation provide important protection against racially and religiously aggravate offence in public place , they do not extend to abuse that occur inside private home . policing stakeholder have highlight that gap , and have emphasise the need for strong safeguard for emergency worker . new clause 60 to 62 therefore introduce specific offence relate to the use of racially or religiously threatening , abusive or insulting word or behaviour towards emergency worker act in the course of their duty . crucially , that include incident that take place within a private dwelling . this be a focused and proportionate measure . it do not interfere with freedom of expression ; rather , it reinforce the principle that emergency worker should be able to carry out their critical role without be subject to hate or hostility because of their race or religion . I hope that the hon . member for Esher and Walton ( Monica Harding ) will agree that these Government new clause achieve the underlie purpose of her new clause 120 . clause 112 strengthen the protection afford to nationally significant war memorial by provide for a new offence of climb on specified war memorial without lawful excuse . we believe that the same protection should now be extend to other nationally significant memorial , start with the statue of Sir Winston Churchill in Parliament Square . the Churchill statue , which be a prominent national symbol of Britain ' s wartime leadership , have repeatedly be target and climb on during protest in recent year . include it within the new offence ensure the consistent protection of one of the foremost culturally significant monument link to national remembrance . amendment 77 to 84 therefore expand the scope of the new offence to include other memorial of national significance , as well as add the statue of Sir Winston Churchill to the list of specified memorial set out in schedule 12 . new clause 63 to 70 and 81 and new schedule 1 deal with remotely store electronic datum , clarify power for law enforcement agency to access information store online and extract evidence or intelligence for criminal investigation , to protect the public from the risk of terrorism and safeguard our national security . the power will apply when law enforcement agency have lawfully seize an electronic device , as part of national security examination at UK border or when a person provide his or her agreement . new clause 70 also amend the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 to permit the interception of access - relate communication , such as two - factor authentication code . those reform be necessary to ensure that our law enforcement agency have clear power to access vital evidence and intelligence when investigate serious offence , include child sexual abuse , fraud , terrorism and threat to national security , at a time when more and more information be store remotely in the cloud rather than on people ' s electronic device . let I now turn to new clause 72 to 79 and new schedule 3 . a crucial aspect of our safe street mission be to rebuild public confidence in police . among other thing , that mean ensure that only those who be fit to serve can hold the office of constable or otherwise work in our law enforcement agency . as well as strengthen the vetting regime for police officer , the new clause and the new schedule require the National Crime Agency , the British Transport police , the Civil Nuclear Constabulary and the Ministry of Defence police to establish bar person list and advisory list , similar to those create in 2017 for territorial police force in England and Wales the chief officer of these force , and other , will be under a legal duty to consult the list before employ or appoint an individual to prevent those dismiss from police from rejoin another force in the future . my right hon . friend the Home Secretary have announce a new police efficiency and collaboration programme to cut waste and bureaucracy . it be important that undertaking provide service to the police be deliver the most benefit , and unlock the efficiency saving need by force to achieve well outcome for the public . announce the Government ' s intention to consult on establish a new national centre of policing , the Home Secretary say that she envisage the body ' s be responsible for exist share service , national it capability , and force - host national capability . it be right that the Home Secretary have the power to ensure that those capability be fully align with the priority of the police efficiency and collaboration programme , and that they be adequately prepared for transition into the new body with no disruption to service delivery . new clause 80 ensure that the Home Secretary have the power to direct undertaking provide critical service and capability to police to take appropriate action to strengthen their service delivery to well deliver our efficiency programme , and , ahead of any future legislation to establish the national centre for policing , to remove any barrier to the transition of service into the new centre . we table new clause 52 and 53 against the backdrop of the Government ' s commitment to bring into force the repeal of the outdated Vagrancy Act 1824 , which criminalise beg and many form of rough sleeping . it be generally the case that when beg reach the threshold of antisocial behaviour there be already sufficient power available to the police and other to address that , but we have identify two gap in the law that will arise from the repeal of the 1824 Act , which the new clause would address . new clause 52 make it a criminal offence for any person to arrange or facilitate another person ' s beg for gain . organised begging , which be often facilitate by criminal gang , exploit vulnerable individual and can undermine the public ' s sense of safety . this provision make it unlawful for anyone to organise other to beg — for example , by drive people to place for they to beg . that will allow the police to crack down on the organised crime gang that use this exploitative technique to obtain cash for illicit activity . the Minister be be very generous in take intervention . have work for a homelessness charity , I have see this issue at first hand . do she agree that when there be an organisation behind the begging , the person force to beg be actually be exploit , so these law will help to tackle a form of exploitation ? my hon . friend make that point very well . these individual be exploit by serious and organised criminal gang , and we be go to clamp down on those gang ' activity . new clause 53 re - enact the offence of be on enclose premise for an unlawful purpose . it will make it an offence for a person to trespass on any premise — that cover any building , part of a building or enclosed area — with the intention of commit an offence . without this replacement offence , the police would be able to rely only on the trespassing provision in the Theft Act 1968 , which cover trespassing only in relation to burglary . it be important that the police have the power to tackle all case of trespassing with intent to commit an offence , and new clause 53 will ensure that . new clause 82 amend the Extradition Act 2003 . under that Act , the UK can accept extradition request where the request person have already be convict in the request state . when consider these case , if the request person be convict in their absence and a UK judge determine that they do not deliberately absent themselves from their trial , a UK judge be bind by the 2003 Act to determine whether the individual be entitle to a retrial in the request state . first , the new clause align the provision of the 2003 Act with the trade and co - operation agreement , which govern the right to a retrial in the context of UK - EU extradition co - operation . this will improve legal certainty and remove opportunity for confusion in the extradition system . secondly , the new clause respond to a recent Supreme Court ruling to the effect that the current drafting of the 2003 Act should be read as require a guarantee retrial in the request state . the 2003 Act have previously be interpret as a right to apply for a retrial , subject to the domestic law of the request state . several state can not offer assurance to meet the condition impose by the judgment , and there be therefore a public safety risk of individual be discharge if the new interpretation of the 2003 Act be leave to stand . new clause 82 therefore reinstate the previous interpretation , which be that only the right to apply for a retrial be require to permit extradition in a case where the person be absent from the trial . I want to comment on a few other Government amendment . first , in Committee , the Government add to the Bill provision that be now clause 29 to 33 , which introduce a two - step verification process for the sale and delivery of knife and crossbow purchase online . those provision apply where a knife , crossbow or part of a crossbow be deliver to a residential address . I congratulate the Minister both on the Bill as it stand and on today ' s amendment . near my constituency , there have be a troubling spate of recent incident in which young people , in some case encourage by old man , be film themselves catapult and injure wildlife , and place that footage on TikTok . the footage be deeply unpleasant , and I do not recommend anybody look at it . would the Minister agree that that behaviour go well beyond antisocial behaviour , and may at some point require a ban perhaps on the sale of catapult , but certainly on their use for that purpose ? sadly , that be not the first time I have hear about such appalling behaviour of attack and injure animal use catapult . I will certainly be raise that with my counterpart in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs to see what more we can do . I be aware that this issue need to be look at , and I thank my hon . friend for raise it . amendment 24 to 33 will require operator of collection point for item such as knife and crossbow to carry out the same enhance age verification check before hand over knife to the buyer , or in the case of crossbow and crossbow part , to the buyer or even the hirer of the item . clause 30 impose similar requirement on courier . clause 128 introduce cost and expense protection for law enforcement agency in civil recovery proceeding , under the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 , in the High Court or the Court of Session in Scotland . as currently draft , it be not clear how the cost protection measure apply to pre - exist case , particularly where case have start before the provision come into force but cost be incur after the provision come into force . as a result , it may be difficult and costly to determine which cost be cover . amendment 89 provide that cost protection apply to any case where proceeding start after the measure come into force . schedule 15 to the Bill introduce reform to the confiscation regime in England and Wales in respect of the proceed of crime . among other thing , the reform make provision for the provisional discharge of confiscation order make under the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 , allow outstanding confiscation order to be place in abeyance when there be no realistic prospect of recovery in the immediate term and all enforcement step have be exhaust . amendment to schedule 15 extend the provisional discharge measure to confiscation order make under legislation predate the 2002 Act . chapter 1 of part 14 provide for youth diversion order , which be a new counter - terrorism risk management tool for young people who , on the balance of probability , the court assess to have commit a terrorism offence or an offence with a terrorism connection , or to have engage in conduct likely to facilitate a terrorism offence , and where the court consider it necessary to make the order for the purpose of protect the public from terrorism or serious harm . the amendment to clause 139 make a change to the scope of ydo to ensure that application can be make for individual up to and include 21 - year - old . currently , a court may make a YDO in respect of a person age 10 to 21 , but exclusive of 21 - year - old . follow further engagement with operational partner on the type of case that could benefit from a YDO , we have conclude that this change would increase the operational utility of the YDO and ensure that it can be consider as an intervention in a wide variety of case involve young people . clause 141 ( 2 ) enable a YDO to include prohibition or requirement relate to the respondent ' s possession or use of electronic device . the amendment to this clause set out a non - exhaustive list of some of the most common or intrusive requirement that may be impose to support the police ' s ability to monitor compliance with restriction on electronic device , provide a clear statutory footing for impose such requirement . for example , it would allow the court to impose a requirement on someone subject to a YDO to enable the police to access their device for the purpose of check compliance with restriction such as access specific website or application . it would allow the police to identify harmful online activity at an early stage and intervene before it escalate . as with other YDO measure , the court would need to assess that any monitoring requirement be necessary and proportionate for the purpose of protect the public from a risk of terrorism or serious harm . technical amendment be also require to clause 142 and 150 relate respectively to the definition of " police detention " for Scotland and Northern Ireland and to the appeal process in Northern Ireland . the amendment will adapt the relevant provision for the purpose of the law in Scotland and Northern Ireland . the amendment to clause 151 provide that , where a person cease to have a reasonable excuse for fail to comply with notification requirement but continue to fail to comply , they commit an offence . the other Government amendment in this group , which make necessary refinement to exist provision in the Bill , be detail in the letter that I send last week to the hon . member for Stockton West ( Matt Vickers ) , a copy of which have be place in the Library . with your permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will therefore seek to respond to the non - Government amendment in this group when wind up . for now , I commend the Government amendment to the House . I call the shadow Minister I would like to express my appreciation to all those who have work on the legislation to develop and shape the policy , whether they be the majority develop under the previous Conservative Government or member of the Bill team , who I be sure have provide helpful assistance to Ministers . as I be sure we will hear today , some of the measure in the Bill be the result of amazing people who have suffer the bad experience , but who have work to ensure that other do not have to suffer they in future . in addition , consider the context of the legislation , it be right to pay tribute to the excellent work of police officer across the country . week in , week out , those serve in our police force put themselves in harm ' s way to keep our street safe . those who serve and place themselves in danger can not be thank enough . many people ask themselves whether they would have the bravery to stand up and intervene . officer across the country do so on a daily basis . thank to the effort of the previous Conservative Government , the police force number over 149 , 000 officer in 2024 , with 149 , 769 record in March 2024 . this be the high number of officer , on both full - time equivalent and headcount basis , since comparable record begin in March 2003 . I be grateful to my hon . friend for set out those police number . do he share my concern about the additional police officer we be get ? when I look at our figure for the west midland , the boost be come from deployment . I worry about where they be actually come from and just how much of an increase we be really go to see . I wholeheartedly agree . there be a lot of concern about the neighbourhood policing guarantee and where the resource come from : whether it be through special or volunteer — of course , we want to see more of they — or redeployment . when people ring 999 , they want to know that they be go to get the response they expect . they do not want to see that deplete to move officer from one bucket to the next . that have real consequence . the big hit to our police force number at the moment will be the national insurance rise — the tax that be tax police off our street . the shadow Minister and I probably disagree on many thing , but he be give a very well - present speech . do he not recognise , however , that there may well be an increase in police number , but we have see a decrease in police staff ? in Essex , we lose over 400 police staff during the Conservatives ’ period in office and a number of police officer have be redeploy to role that could have be do by police staff . I be glad to see all those police officer get proper training through the hon . Gentleman ' s math teach . I be glad he have new recruit in his part of the world , but people be concerned about the frontline number . the number of police on our street be a huge concern to the public . the chair of the National Police Chiefs ' Council have say that the funding will not match the Government ' s ambition and fall short of maintain the exist workforce . and just listen to the Police Federation , which state quite simply : " this Chancellor hasn ' t listen to police officer . " can the Minister confirm that by the end of this Parliament there will be more police officer than be serve in March 2024 ? the shadow Minister will know from our time in Committee that I be an ex - police officer , and I thank he for his word about police officer serve the country . do he agree that the Bill will give the police more confidence that they will have the right power , so that they be able to make a difference ? I welcome lot of the measure in the Bill and I hope they will really help our police officer to keep our street safe , but the police need the resource , funding and support to be out there enforce the legislation we be put forward today . I thank the hon . member for his service — on the Committee as well as in the police force . the House will debate a number of amendment and new clause today and tomorrow . the Opposition amendment be sensible and aim to improve the Bill , which our constituent would want we to get behind . amendment 175 relate to the Government ' s objective , which we all want to achieve , of reduce knife crime by 50 % . we know the untold damage knife crime cause to victim , family and community across the country . this legislation introduce a new offence : possession of an article with a blade or point , or an offensive weapon , with the intent to use unlawful violence . let I put that in context . imagine you be at home in your garden enjoy a nice peaceful afternoon with the kid . suddenly , our hard - work police officer swoop in on a man walk down the street — a man carry a knife or offensive weapon who be then prove beyond all reasonable doubt to have plan to use it for violence . he could have be come for your neighbour , your friend or your family . this be a man who clearly need to be lock up . would you want to see he put away for four year or 14 year ? in fact , with the sentencing review , whatever he be sentence to , he be likely to serve significantly less . who know how much of that four year he would serve before he could walk back down your street ? do not just take it from I that this be a more appropriate and fitting sentence . take it from the professional the Government put in charge of assess legislation relate to terrorism . Jonathan Hall KC , the independent reviewer of terrorism legislation , have look at the horrific incident in Southport . he support the creation of this offence , but have say that the penalty appear to be too low . Knife crime have devastating consequence for our community . increase the penalty to 14 year would send a clear and unequivocal message that such dangerous behaviour will not be tolerate , and that those who pose a risk to the public will face the most severe consequence . I urge member to support this amendment . on fly - tipping , people across the country be rightly furious to see tosser and fly - tipper dump waste on our street and green space . they be all too aware of the impact on our environment , wildlife and the ability of other to enjoy communal area . amendment 174 recognise the scourge that litter and fly - tipping represent across the country . accord to figure compile by DEFRA for 2023 - 24 , local authority in England deal with 1 . 15 million incident of fly - tipping , and be estimate to spend more than £ 11 million of taxpayer ' money clean it up each year . that money would be well spend on frontline service . accord to keep Britain Tidy , litter and fly - tipping cost the country £ 1 million a year . [ Official Report , 17 June 2025 ; Vol . 769 , c . 206 - 207 . ] do my hon . friend agree that that be money that could go to frontline service , so it be about time we take more stringent measure to change behaviour , along with some good enforcement ? I could not agree more . a small minority wreak havoc on our countryside and our street , and create absolute chaos . that be what this amendment be about : tough sanction to divert people from do such mindless thing . the money waste every year on clean up would be well spend on frontline service , such as fill pothole or provide community service . instead , it be use to clean up after those who have no respect for other or for our natural environment . the most common location for fly - tipping be on pavement and road , which account for 37 % of all incident in 2023 - 24 . the majority — 59 % — involve small van - sized dump , or an amount of waste that could easily fit in a car boot . it be therefore logical to conclude that a significant majority of fly - tipping incident stem from vehicle . use a vehicle to dump a van full or a boot full of waste should come with real consequence , and the people who do it should feel that in their ability to use their vehicle , as well as through financial penalty . the previous Government increase fine for fly - tipping from £ 400 to £ 1 , 000 , but we can go far to deter people from dump on the doorstep of other . the amendment would require the Home Secretary to consult on the establishment of a scheme of drive licence penalty point for fly - tipper and those who toss rubbish from vehicle . in Committee , the Minister pledge to engage with DEFRA on this issue . by pass this amendment , we could go far by commit to undertake a consultation to develop a workable and effective scheme . for the benefit of all those who want to be able to enjoy their green space , and for our environment and the wildlife that suffer at the hand of fly - tipper and those who toss waste , I urge member to support the amendment . let we send a message to the mindless minority who wreak havoc on our green space . before conclude my remark , I would like to draw the attention of the House to amendment 167 , 168 , 170 and 171 , which , among other conservative proposal , aim to strengthen respect order . we have hear the Minister speak both in Committee and in the Chamber of the role these order can play in tackle antisocial behaviour . the success of the policy will be contingent on its effective enforcement by the police , and on perpetrator be aware that they will face tough sanction if they breach the order . I hope the Government will continue to consider these amendment . I draw member ' attention to these amendment as they be indicative of the constructive approach Conservative Members have take towards improve the Bill in way that we believe would benefit the legislation as a whole . I hope that member across the House will give serious consideration to our amendment and new clause over the come two day . the Minister and I have spend more time together than she probably ever envisage , and I believe we can agree that the Bill contain some sensible and proportionate measure : great protection for our retail worker , effort to tackle antisocial behaviour , and more measure to tackle vile and horrendous child exploitation . however , we can work together to go far , and that be what our opposition amendment seek to do . I begin by once again welcome the Bill . it will deliver so much for my constituent by protect people from crime and enable tough action on antisocial behaviour , include in area that have too long be label " low level " and ignore , such as the illegal off - road bike that constituent so often raise with I . the Bill will introduce mandatory reporting for child sexual abuse — one of the key recommendation of the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse , or iicsa . this be a long - overdue measure , which have long be call for by our Labour Home Secretary and Prime Minister personally . however , I remain concerned that the Government be not go far enough on the issue of mandatory reporting . I have therefore table three amendment to the Bill on that subject — amendment 10 , 11 and 22 — on which I will focus my speech today . amendment 10 , 11 and 22 be not intend to change Government policy — quite the opposite . they be intend to deliver the Government ' s state policy to implement the iicsa recommendation relevant to the Home Office in full . the Home Secretary state in January that that be the Government ' s intention , and reaffirm that just yesterday , respond with a firm " yes " to my question after her statement on whether it remain Government policy to implement the recommendation in full . however , there be three significant gap in our plan to implement recommendation 13 on mandatory reporting , where the Bill do not deliver what IICSA recommend . with these gap , I be concerned that the duty to report will be ineffective in some of the setting where it be most need . my concern apply to religious group in particular . I will use the example of the Jehovah ' s witness — the religious group I grow up in — to illustrate how and why . Jehovah ' s witness have a deep cultural distrust of secular authority , which , as happen in a lot of religious group , lead to a culture of deal with everything internally , include child sexual abuse , and report nothing to the police . their internal process for do so be atrocious . jehovah ' s witness have something call the " two witness rule " , which mean that no action be take on any report of wrongdoing unless there be two witness to it . there be never two witness to child sexual abuse . I give that context to highlight why the mandatory duty to report must be absolutely watertight , as IICSA recommend , to prevent people in the leadership of organisation like the Jehovah ' s witness from avoid it . I will cover the three gap in turn . first , there be no criminal sanction if someone do not comply with the duty . I understand that the Government be propose professional sanction , such as a referral to the Disclosure and Barring Service and to relevant professional regulator , but that be not set out in the Bill and would apply to only a fraction of people under the duty . it would not , for example , do much in religious setting , where so many of the failing be happen , and where the duty would , if construct properly , help immensely to protect child . IICSA be clear that failure to comply should be a criminal offence , and amendment 10 would make that the case . it propose a fine as the appropriate sanction , which be in line with good practice overseas . many other country — France , Australia , part of Canada and so on — have introduce mandatory reporting , and many have do so with criminal sanction of this kind . while the Government will likely say that criminal sanction could have a chilling effect that would stop people go into profession that work with child , the international evidence clearly show that this do not happen — in the australian state of Victoria , for instance . Professor Ben Mathews have do extensive research on mandatory reporting law and their efficacy , which I thoroughly encourage the Minister to ask official to examine . the second gap relate to those who come under the duty to report . IICSA recommend that the duty should apply first to anyone work in regulate activity with child under the Safeguarding Vulnerable Groups Act 2006 , and the Bill use that criterion — tick . however , IICSA also recommend that it should apply to anyone in a position of trust over a child , as define by the Sexual Offences Act 2003 , which the Bill do not include . amendment 22 would make it so . the Bill set out a list of relevant activity in part 2 of schedule 8 , which replicate about 90 % of what be in the Sexual Offences Act . however , that miss 10 % be critical ; for a start , it include sport coach and teacher , which schedule 8 do not . go back to my early example , section 22a of the Sexual Offences Act include a very effective definition of religious leader . schedule 8 do include a definition of religious leader , but require such people to have " regular unsupervised contact " with child to be subject to the duty . that qualification will allow virtually any religious leader — be they pay clergy or a volunteer elder , like in the Jehovah ' s witness — to escape the duty , as very few have regular unsupervised contact with child , despite be in a significant position of power and influence . I personally know at least one person who be sexually abuse as a child in that organisation . when they go to speak to religious leader about it , in the presence of their parent — not unsupervised — they be advise that go to the police would mean bring reproach on God ' s name . so no report be make , by either the victim or their family , or by those religious elder . that be commonplace . under the Bill as draft , there be no sanction for that . those elder be not mandate reporter ; even if they be , the propose offence in clause 73 of stop someone else from make a report — an offence I very much welcome , for the record — apply only to other mandate reporter . if , therefore , someone pressure a victim or their parent not to make a report , that will not be illegal . that offence need to be broaden , too . the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children be call for the Government to consider a broad offence of conceal child sexual abuse , to which I urge the Government to give serious consideration . I will give more detail on that later , if there be time . the hon . Gentleman be make very important point , in particular on the Jehovah ' s witness cult . one of the method Jehovah ' s witness use to ensure that issue like this do not escape from the organisation be threaten individual with the act of disfellowshippe — be cut off from all communication with their own family . I wonder whether he will go a little far in recognise that , too . I thank the hon . member for that intervention . I be very pleased that other hon . member in the House be aware of that issue , which be something I be try to do some work on separately . it be certainly relevant to what I be discuss . to give the House a little more context on that , through the act of disfellowshipping , when the organisation decide that someone have commit a serious sin , it can essentially tell all their family and friend to cut they off permanently ; the same apply if an individual choose simply to leave the religion . disfellowshipping be very rarely apply to perpetrator of crime , and be more often apply to the victim who report they . it be an enormous problem that have to be deal with , and I look forward to engage with the hon . member far on that . as I highlight on Second Reading , the australian royal commission that investigate the organisation ' s handling of abuse case find that while allegation have be document by religious elder against 1 , 006 individual in Australia alone , not a single one be report to the police . we must tighten up this definition and ensure that it include religious leader . the Government could do so by amend the definition in paragraph 17 of part 2 of schedule 8 , and by add a further item to the list in relation to sport professional to deal with that point as well . however , the much neater and strong legislative solution would be to just do what IICSA say , and refer to the Sexual Offences Act 2003 and the definition therein , which amendment 22 seek to do . the third problem relate to what trigger the duty to report . IICSA recommend that the duty should apply in three case : first , when a mandated reporter be tell by a child or perpetrator that abuse have take place ; secondly , when they see it happen ; and thirdly , when they observe recognise indicator of child sexual abuse , which can range from thing like a child be pregnant or have a sexually transmit infection to other , more subjective indicator . our Bill score two out of three , as it do not include the third point on recognise indicator , which be also refer to as reasonable suspicion . overwhelmingly , child do not report abuse that be be do to they at the time that the abuse be happen . those who do report tend to do so year after it happen , when it be far too late to protect they and far too late , in many case , to catch the perpetrator and stop they harm other child . the australian royal commission in 2015 find that the average time for someone to disclose child sexual abuse be 22 year after it happen , so include reasonable suspicion be critical , and that be what my amendment 11 would do . give the potentially subjective judgment need in that case , amendment 11 would exempt the case of recognise indicator from criminal sanction for non - compliance , which be also what IICSA recommend . the Government may be of the view that include recognised indicator , and make my propose change to include position of trust , would lead to a flood of additional report that will overwhelm the system with false lead that prevent real case of abuse be tackle . those be very reasonable concern , and I hear they , but , again , we must look to the international example where this just have not take place . in Australia there be an increase in case after it bring in robust mandatory reporting law , but the system adapt and cope , with exist screening process to remove false report work more effectively . notably , the number of substantiate report double , mean that twice as many sexually abuse child be be identify . this be make a huge difference . we do not even have to go international to see that fear about flood of report just do not materialise ; we just have to go to Northern Ireland , which already have mandatory reporting for all adult — with criminal sanction for non - compliance — as part of its broad legislation require the reporting of arrestable offence to police , and there be no overwhelming flood of report over there . I urge the Government to take these problem seriously . as I say at the outset , the Home Secretary have reaffirm several time that government policy be to implement IICSA ' s recommendation , which fall under the remit of the Home Office , in full . I know that the Government will need to reflect on these issue in detail , so I will not press these amendment to a vote today , should the Minister not accept they , but I be aware that colleague in the other place will press similar amendment . a number of hon . member have sign they — amendment 22 have 12 signature , for example — so there be a significant fear that , without these change , the propose mandatory reporting duty be too weak . we all want to get this right , but the impact assessment on a very similar version in the previous Government ' s Criminal Justice Bill be damn , predict only a very small increase in the number of report . I will , if I may , conclude very briefly by return to what I mention early about the potential offence of conceal child sexual abuse . I look at how to include this as an amendment to broaden discussion , but it be very difficult to phrase in the correct way . essentially , the NSPCC have highlight a number of case where , it argue , the Bill do not go far enough to cover the multitude of way in which report abuse could be conceal and people who intentionally conceal this crime could be allow to slip through the net . IICSA find a number of case where it believe that a lack of reporting have border on concealment . as a couple of example , we can imagine that clause 73 , as currently draft , mean that a senior leader of an organisation who choose simply to move on an employee they suspect of commit child sexual abuse , rather than to ensure that they be report to the authority , may not be catch under the offence around prevent someone else from report , if their action do not actively prevent or deter that report explicitly . other action could include community , institution or authority destroy evidence of historical child sexual abuse in order to prevent it be reinvestigate , or in some other way hamper or interfere with investigation that be take place . it could also include someone bury evidence of child sexual abuse after it have be report to the authority , so that it can not be properly investigate . the Bill provide we with a strong opportunity to deal with some those issue , and I hope the Government will look at that as the Bill move through the other place . I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I to speak , and I thank the House for listen to my contribution . I very much hope that the Government will continue to look at these issue in more detail so that we can find an acceptable solution . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I rise to speak to amendment 160 , which stand in my name , and briefly in favour of amendment 157 and 158 , also in my name . I wish to start by thank all those who have campaign over many year for some of the sensible change to the Bill that we be discuss today . I also want to put on record my thank to our fantastic police force , include Greater Manchester Police , and also to my hon . friend the Members for Frome and East Somerset ( Anna Sabine ) and for Sutton and Cheam ( Luke Taylor ) for their assiduous work on the Bill Committee . Liberal Democrat amendment 160 would ensure that the police can not use live facial recognition technology when impose condition on public assembly or procession under section 12 or 14 of the Public Order Act 1986 , unless a new and specific code of practice govern its use in public space have first be approve by both Houses . regulation around the use of live facial recognition have be discuss many time in this House , and support for strengthen the current situation , bring clarity and certainty to police force , have gain support from all part of the House , both in this Chamber and in Westminster Hall . I hope this amendment do the same today . the Liberal Democrats oppose the police ' s use of facial recognition surveillance . it breach the right to privacy and be far too often biased , particularly give its propensity to wrongly identify people of colour and woman . in our manifesto last year , we commit immediately to halt the use of live facial recognition surveillance by the police and private company . when datum or technology , such as artificial intelligence , be use by the police , they must be regulate to ensure that they be unbiased . they must be use in a way that be transparent and accurate and that respect the privacy of innocent people . policing should not intrude on this right for people who be not suspect of any crime . on the question of bias , much of the recent debate have centre around the National Physical Laboratory ' s 2023 study into the equitability of facial recognition technology in law enforcement . this report be frequently cite by proponent of facial recognition , include the shadow Home Secretary , both at the Dispatch Box , when the Bill come before the House on Second Reading , and during a well - attend Westminster Hall debate last November as evidence that bias in the technology be on the decline . however , we should not overlook one of that study ' s most critical finding . in live facial recognition — where a real - time camera feed be compare against a predetermine watchlist — the likelihood of false positive be not fix . instead , it depend heavily on the specific parameter of how that technology be deploy , particularly on the face - match threshold . that threshold , in turn , be influence by both the size and composition of the watchlist , as well as the volume and nature of the people move through the surveillance zone . the study recommend that , where operationally feasible , the police use a face - match threshold of 0 . 6 in order to reduce the risk of bias . however — and this be crucial — without clear regulation , police force be under no obligation to adopt this or any specific standard . in other word , the presence of the technology alone do not ensure fairness . without oversight , significant room remain for bias to persist in how facial recognition be apply . this lead to increase instance of the wrong people be stop and search — an area of police that already disproportionately impact black community . new technology in policing may well present good opportunity to improve public safety , and police should take advantage of they to prevent and solve crime . however , give that new technology can raise significant concern relate to civil liberty and discrimination , we must ensure that any new power involve they be scrutinise by both Houses . liberal Democrat amendment 160 would ensure that the police can not use live facial recognition technology when impose condition on public assembly or procession under section 12 or 14 of the Public Order Act 1986 , unless a new and specific code of practice govern its use in public space have first be approve by both Houses . this will ensure democratic oversight of any change to further legislation that may impact public privacy and civil liberty . I hope that the amendment will have support from across the House . I have just a few word to say on amendment 157 and 158 , which would enable a review of antisocial behaviour power . antisocial behaviour , as member have already mention this afternoon , blight community , erode trust , fray the social fabric and disproportionately affect the most vulnerable . many colleague have raise issue within their own community , some of which I see in my constituency . we have off - road bike in Heaviley , Marple , Offerton and High Lane . they be a persistent blight on my community . they intimidate people , endanger public safety and be just really annoying . but we must respond with law that be not just tough , but fair and proportionate . that be why I urge all colleague to support amendment 157 and 158 , which would ensure that antisocial behaviour law be review before be change , and that any new guidance be create with public input . I also welcome amendment 3 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Wells and Mendip Hills ( Tessa Munt ) , which aim to ensure that the duty to report suspect child abuse cover faith group . I encourage the hon . member for North West Cambridgeshire ( Sam Carling ) to seek she out as he will find a doughty ally in his attempt to improve the Bill as it impact on faith group . as I say on Second Reading , there be measure in the Bill that the Liberal Democrats support . be our amendment to be accept , the Bill would go even far towards keep our community safe in a way that be proportionate and that balance the civil liberty implication of give the police more power . I hope that the House will support our amendment . I rise to support the Bill and to speak to amendment 20 , which stand in my name and be support by more than 50 member from across the House . the measure in the Bill represent the most significant package of crime prevention and police reform in a generation . from strengthen action against shoplifting , knife crime and antisocial behaviour to introduce new power to confront child sexual abuse , this legislation give our police the tool they need to take back our high street and town centre . I be proud to support the Bill , and I be proud that this Labour Government be show leadership by put victim first , support our police and turn the tide on crime after 14 year of conservative neglect . it be in that same spirit of place victim at the heart of our justice system that I have table amendment 20 . it address an urgent and under - recognise issue : the devastating link between domestic abuse and suicide and the failure of our legal system to properly reflect it . my amendment be support by Southall Black Sisters — a pioneer black feminist organisation found in 1979 , dedicate to empower black , minoritised and migrant woman and girl , particularly those flee violence . for over four decade , Southall Black Sisters have be a trailblazer in advocate for the right and safety of some of society ' s most marginalised woman and girl and in address barrier root in racism , sexism and socioeconomic inequality . their mission be to dismantle the structural injustice harm black , minoritise and migrant woman and girl , while foster global solidarity for a future root in equity , justice and empowerment . I sincerely thank the dedicated staff at Southall Black Sisters for their help with my amendment . too often those who drive their victim to suicide through sustained coercion , violence or psychological abuse walk away without consequence . while the Bill introduce welcome offence on serious self - harm , it still fall short of recognise the full impact face by victim of domestic abuse , particularly when the abuse end in suicide . the statistic should stop we in our track . accord to the Vulnerability Knowledge and Practice Programme , suspect suicide link to domestic abuse now outnumber domestic homicide . it be estimate that three woman die by suicide every week as a result of abuse , yet since 2017 there have be just one conviction where a victim ' s suicide be legally recognise as the outcome of domestic abuse — just one . that be not justice ; it be a failure to see these woman , recognise what they have endure and hold their abuser to account . coercive control and psychological torment may leave no bruise , but the impact be every bit as lethal . when domestic abuse end in suicide , it must be recognise for what it be : a crime . the injustice of this issue fall heavy on those already most marginalised . black , minoritised and migrant woman face the high barrier to safety — barrier root in racism , immigration insecurity , stigma and a lack of culturally competent service . too often they be misjudge , criminalise or simply ignore . the justice system , and indeed society , must stop ask , " why didn ' t she leave ? " , and start ask , " why wasn ' t he stop ? " that be the change that amendment 20 call for . it shine a light on these death and make it clear that when abuse lead to suicide , the law must see it , hear it and respond . I be pleased that , through this Bill , the Government be take forward meaningful change to deliver on Labour ' s mission to halve violence against woman and girl . I do not intend to press my amendment to a vote , but I hope that the Government will bring forward change that recognise the link between abuse and suicide and ensure that our law reflect that reality . in France , for example , the law be change in 2020 to recognise suicide or attempt suicide as an outcome of domestic abuse . a perpetrator may now face up to 10 year in prison and a substantial fine if abuse be find to have significantly contribute to the victim ' s death . that be the level of seriousness that the issue should demand . I be grateful to the Victims Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , for meet I to discuss the issue that my amendment raise , and I welcome her invitation to submit evidence to the forthcoming Law Commission review . I also welcome the Minister ' s recognition that current homicide law do not adequately reflect these case . I fully support the Bill ' s mission to protect victim and restore trust in our justice system , but that justice must be complete . the woman drive to take their own life because of abuse must no long be invisible to the law . in short , amendment 20 would criminalise abuser who drive victim to self - harm or suicide by introduce a new offence of encourage serious self - harm or suicide follow a sustained pattern of abuse . the Bill introduce new offence for encourage or assist self - harm but fall short of cover case where victim die by suicide follow sustained pattern of coercive control and abuse . recognise this form of abuse in law be critical . the amend Bill would reflect the severe psychological impact of coercive control , enhance deterrence and increase survivor and public confidence in the criminal justice system . it would also compel judge , jury , coroner and the police to properly investigate and respond to such case , treat they with the seriousness that they deserve . ultimately , it would ensure that victim be not fail by a legal framework that continue to overlook the long - term and often fatal result of domestic abuse . I rise to support my amendment 19 , which seek to amend clause 94 , which bring in a new law to make spike or administer a harmful substance an offence . I be grateful for the cross - party support I have receive for this amendment from Labour , Conservative , liberal Democrat , Green and Independent mp . the intended law around spike be a sound one , and it generally have cross - party support — indeed , it be a measure in the previous version of this Bill , bring in under the previous Government . my concern be that it have a defect and that there be a loophole . my amendment seek to close that by ensure that spike by a reckless act be also an offence . spike be a hideous , heinous activity that destroy life . it destroy people ' s physical and mental health , and at worst , it kill people . the majority of victim of spike — 74 % — be woman , and the average age of those be spike be just 26 , but there be no typical spike incident . the majority involve put something in a drink , but needle spike be also on the rise . the most likely place for spike to happen be in a bar , pub or a club , but it can happen anywhere , include in a supermarket or on the street . spike be most commonly think among member of the public to be motivate by sexual intent or to facilitate a theft , but in Committee we hear from Colin Mackie from Spike Aware UK about a very different type of spiking , which be what I think the new law fail to address . it be the rise in spike that seem to have no particular intent behind it . it be sometimes refer to as prank spike — spike for , to quote the Government ' s own guidance , seemingly " a bit of fun " . we hear from Colin Mackie about how his son Greg die through suspect spiking of that kind . the Bill criminalise spike or administer a harmful substance with intent to injure , aggrieve or annoy . I do not accept that every case of spike fit into that definition . I will give an example of a scenario where recklessness would cover a case of spike — by the way , I should say that recklessness be a well - trodden principle in criminal law , date back over 200 year . it be an alternative to intent , so that if the prosecution fail to establish that someone mean to do something , it can alternatively establish that their action be so reckless that they should be convict . an example be assault cause actual bodily harm . the prosecution must establish the harm , but it can establish either that someone intend that harm or that they do an act so reckless that harm be bind to follow . it do not matter which it establish to a jury ; it will secure a conviction . it be the same with manslaughter : the prosecution can run a case that although somebody do not intend for someone else to die , their action be so reckless that they should have know that someone might die , and it can secure a conviction . by the way , in the absence of law on spike , those two offence be often use , but they be often defective , which be why the Government be bring in their own spike law . however , they have fail to replicate the principle of recklessness within it . I will give a hypothetical example . a group of friend go into a bar . two of they have be take illegal drug — they have do it before — and they be enjoy themselves . they say to each other , " that friend in our circle — he need to loosen up some more . he need to stop his ridiculous opposition to have a bit of fun by take these pill . I tell you what : we ' ll do he a favour . let ' s not tell he , but let ' s slip one of these pill we ' ve be take in his drink so he can loosen up and enjoy the evening like we be . " they go ahead and do that , and of course their friend , very likely , be harm . he may not have do that drug before , or he may have be take prescription drug and the mixture be a cocktail . I be sure the House would intend that those two people have commit a crime , but when they be take to trial I can see a scenario where their defence will say , " member of the jury , my client be foolish . they be silly . they shouldn ' t have do it . but they didn ' t intend to annoy their friend . they didn ' t intend to injure their friend . what they intend to do be have a bit of fun and help he have a bit of fun . it be stupid , but they do not intend it . " how be a jury suppose to convict beyond reasonable doubt on that ? instead , if the prosecution could point to recklessness , it would be able to say , " member of the jury , we do not care whether what these two people intend would be fun for that friend . it be so obviously reckless to any reasonable person that it must be a crime , and you must convict . " clause 94 need that much more wide - range , all - encompass , try and test legal principle in it . my amendment would do just that . I thank Colin Mackie from Spike Aware UK for bring that evidence to the Bill Committee , and stamp out Spiking , which have also do a huge amount , as well as member no long in this place who have be do a lot of work behind the scene . I be not a lawyer , but my hon . friend have deploy a clear and compelling argument . at the beginning of his remark , he reference how amendment 19 , to which I be a signatory , command cross - party support . in advance of anything the Minister may say , be my hon . friend able to indicate , from conversation he have have with the Home Office and individual Ministers , the Government ' s response ? he seem to be make such a compelling case ; it would be helpful if the Government accept it . I thank my hon . friend . I be on the Bill Committee , where a similar amendment be table , so I can reference the Minister ' s response at that time . I have also have a brief word with the Minister outside this place . the Government ' s position seem to be that the type of activity I be describe be cover in the intent to annoy , but I hope that I have make it perfectly clear that all reckless act be plainly not cover by an intention to annoy . I do not for one minute suggest that the Government wilfully do not want the law to work and to cover all scenario , but I be leave with the impression that they have not sufficiently address their mind to the gape loophole that be stare they in the face . if they do not like my amendment , I urge they to draft an amendment of their own to deal with the issue . if just one person walk free follow this law because they be able to convince a jury that their action be not annoying — but they would have be deem reckless — that will be a terrible failure of what the Government be try to do in the Bill . I urge the Minister to think again , and I urge all across the House to vote for the amendment to force the Government ' s hand . I table amendment 161 on public order issue and the policing of demonstration . before I get to that , I welcome the proposal in the Bill on fly - tipping , and I look forward to the guidance that will be issue to the various authority to deal with it . I be attract by the Opposition ' s amendment on what be include in that guidance , largely because , like other member , my constituency be plague with fly - tipping . I seem to be follow by a mattress throughout my constituency in virtually every area I visit . I come to public order and my amendment , which I table to try to get on the record the reality of what be happen with the public order issue and demonstration . in the explanatory note , the Government have set out this argument : " the regular protest follow the event in Israel and Gaza on 7 October 2023 highlight gap in public order legislation , principally the Public Order act 1986 and 2023 . " they have therefore bring forward proposal in response to the police challenge of such protest . since 7 October , I have be on virtually every national demonstration in central London organise by the Palestine Solidarity Campaign and other group . I understand the pressure on the police service ; in fact , I have police constituent who have have their leave cancel and all the rest because of the frequency of the protest , but that have largely be a response to the depth of concern about what be happen in Gaza . People have want to express their view , and one of the way of do that through our democratic system be to demonstrate and march and protest . all the demonstration I have be on have be peaceful , good natured and — up until a few recent incident — extremely well policed . in the explanatory note , the Government set out that legislation be be bring forward in relation to three thing , which I think we can all agree on . there be : " a new criminal offence of climb on war memorial . " secondly , there be " possession of a pyrotechnic article at a protest " , which be dangerous , anyway . the other be about conceal identity , although issue with that be refer to in other amendment , because that might well have an impact on the exercise of religious freedom , particularly with regard to the veil and be able to dress . the Government do not cite in the explanatory note the issue in clause 114 of restriction on protest at place of worship . in all the national demonstration in London that have take place , there have never be an incident outside a place of worship . concern have be express by some group , but largely , I think , they have be by group who have motivation other than concern about public order . in the negotiation with the Metropolitan police on each demonstration that have take place , there have be a long discussion in which the route be identify , and usually there be overall agreement to avoid any area that could be see as contentious and could provoke a reaction . even when a place of worship , such as a synagogue , have be some distance from the demonstration , the organiser have try to ensure not just proper stewarding , so that the demonstration do not go anywhere near it — usually , it have to be 10 or 15 minute ' walk distance away — but that the time of service be avoid as well . interestingly , until recently there have never be a problem , but the police seem to have harden their attitude , I think as a result of come under pressure from organisation that might simply not want the protest to go ahead in any form because they take a different attitude to what be happen in Gaza and Pakistan . [ interruption . ] if the water the hon . member for Selby ( Keir Mather ) be carry be for I , I thank he . I be concerned that not only be we try to solve a problem that do not exist , but it could be solve in well way . I be also worried about the drafting of the legislation . clause 114 have the phrase : " the procession be in the vicinity of a place of worship " . we need clarity on what " in the vicinity " mean . in the negotiation on the last demonstration , the protestor want to march to the BBC , and the police be concern about a synagogue that be 10 or 15 minute ' walk away . the protest organiser say , " fair enough — we ' ll make sure that the protest doesn ' t go anywhere it if there be a service go on , so no one feel in any way anxious about that . " however , the wording of the clause be open to interpretation , and that interpretation be often do by police officer , who come under intense pressure from people who might have different motivation from those who be worry about public order . the other issue be that the clause refer to a procession that " may intimidate person of reasonable firmness " . I have no idea what " reasonable firmness " mean ; in fact , I have not see that term in legislation before . it may well have come up in court , and that may have set the precedent , but I have no idea what it be . in fact , I would not be able to determine whether member stand with reasonable firmness on any issue , because that change with time and with the circumstance . I worry that if interpretation of these term be leave so loosely in the hand of police officer , they be put in an impossible position when it come to these definition and how they implement the measure . for a long time , while demonstration have be go on , the police have try to consult as well they can , yet even that demonstrate how contentious these issue can become . for instance , they have consult the jewish community , but there be real argument within that community about who represent they . the Board of Deputies of british Jews , which be normally consult , represent an element of the jewish community but certainly not the majority — and that board be now split , with 36 member contradict the position of the majority . other jewish group have not be consult — or have only recently have be consult — and they have express their concern about how the police be make the decision . I table an amendment to delete clause 114 because I want to get on the record some of the fact around the issue . there have not be problem relate to place of worship on any of the national demonstration . there be a procedure for negotiating route and avoid disturbance , which have work pretty well until very recently . also , before such legislation be produce , we need a great deal more consultation with a much wide community . the clause leave open the definition of " vicinity " and " reasonable firmness " , and open up a system that be more difficult to implement than the current system , in which negotiation take place in an atmosphere of good will . I worry about this legislation , and I hope that in the other place we might get clear definition , if nothing else . before then , we might even get much more detailed guidance from the Government on how the Bill will be implement ; otherwise , it will cause more division , rather than settle some of the problem that some people perceive . I think some simply want to stop the protest . in my view , stop they would undermine people ' s democratic right , and it would lead to people take action in different way . I would rather we channel their concern — and sometimes , yes , their anger — into form of protest that be manageable , and a more constructive expression of people ' s view . before the Bill reach the other place , I urge the Government to think again about clause 114 , and to see whether they could clarify some of the definition , bring forward guidance and maybe halt the Bill ' s implementation until there have be a much more thorough consultation with a wide section of the community . we all want the democratic right of protest uphold ; I have never hear anyone in this House argue against that . however , we want that do in a way that do not cause harm to anyone , or deny people their democratic right to express their opinion . in this coming period , give international affair , we will see more demonstration , so it be important to get their management right through more effective legislation . I rise to speak to amendment 4 to 8 on child criminal exploitation . I thank the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) and the hon . member for Isle of Wight East ( Joe Robertson ) for their speech and proposal . I voice my support for amendment 21 , table by the hon . member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) , which would prevent driver ' s licence information obtain by the police be use for the purpose of intrusive facial recognition and gather biometric , and amendment 164 table by the hon . member for Liverpool Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) , which would remove clause 108 and the ban on face covering in protest situation . the hon . member for Clapham and Brixton Hill ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) have also table mitigate amendment on that subject ; amendment 184 would create exception , and not just defence , relate to health , work , and religious faith covering . I also support amendment 185 , which propose an equality review . I hope the Government will look at they all . I welcome the effort in the Crime and Policing Bill to protect vulnerable child , and I particularly welcome the introduction of a new offence of child criminal exploitation , which will signal to perpetrator that coerce , manipulate and exploit child into criminal activity be child abuse and will be treat as such . criminal be exploit thousand of vulnerable child ; child in need data show that more than 15 , 000 child be at risk of exploitation in 2023 - 24 , and that be likely to be just the tip of the iceberg . the perpetrator of exploitation include serious organise crime gang , which be well verse in take advantage of legislative gap . even though the Bill take a huge step forward , area of it must be strengthen if we be to protect child and bring the perpetrator of that abuse to justice . that be why I have table amendment 4 to 8 . first , amendment 4 and 5 would amend the wording in clause 38 to ensure that the offence include activity that put child at significant risk and be link to criminal conduct but be not in themselves criminal offence . example of this include carry large amount of cash on public transport , be use as a look - out or decoy , and guard unsafe accommodation alone . amendment 6 expand the definition of " exploitative activity " to ensure that preparatory act , such as grooming and coercion , be capture by the offence . I welcome the Minister ' s comment early , and be grateful for the engagement with these amendment , but it be not yet obvious to I how reference only the facilitation of future offence cover the gap that would be close by amendment 4 and 5 , and amendment 6 seem to have be only partly address . I would therefore welcome further clarification , or a discussion of the issue with the Minister , ahead of consideration in the other place . secondly , amendment 7 would remove clause 38 ( 1 ) ( b ) , which currently amount to a defence if the perpetrator reasonably believe that the child be over 18 , unless the child be under the age of 13 . while such provision be common in other area of law , in the case of criminal exploitation , this clause risk undermine the prosecution of perpetrator due to the well - publicise issue of adultification and racism within the criminal justice system . the recent Independent Office for Police Conduct report into race discrimination and the Alexis Jay report on criminally exploit child on behalf of Action for Children both highlight the role of adultification and racism in the criminalisation of child , and how it lead to failure in safeguard response specifically , but not only , for young black boy . the Modern Slavery Act 2015 be clear : child can not consent to their own exploitation , and this principle must be uphold by our remove this part of the offence . finally , amendment 8 to clause 53 would insert the word " age 18 or over " . this would ensure that child could not be criminalise under the new offence of cuckooing . it would recognise that they be more often than not the victim , not the perpetrator , in these situation . the child target be often very young and extremely vulnerable , and they need protection , not prosecution . these amendment be not merely technical ; they be essential . they reflect the live experience of child , and the finding of numerous report and review that provide compelling evidence of the need for a more robust and child - centre legal framework . I urge all member of the House to support these proposal . together , we can take a decisive step towards well protect vulnerable child from exploitation . before I move on to the amendment I want to speak about , I thank the Minister for the speed with which the Government have bring forward this Bill . it address important issue around protect retail worker and tackle shoplifting and antisocial behaviour — issue that community such as the town and village that I represent feel have be overlook all too often . I really welcome the Government ' s urgency of action in recognition of the great campaign fight by many union , include USDAW , and also of the real sentiment of my constituent that these crime need to be take far more seriously . today , though , I want to focus my time on amendment 19 to clause 94 , in the name of the hon . member for Isle of Wight East ( Joe Robertson ) , which bring forward important legislative action on spike . I do so on behalf of a constituent . I will call she Sarah today because , understandably , she have ask to be keep anonymous for the purpose of the story she wish I to share with all member , but that in no way diminish the great bravery that she have show in her work on this . it be a real privilege for member of the House to meet constituent who , have experience deeply traumatic , incredibly difficult moment in their personal life , show a resilience and depth of character that lot of we could not even dream of , and who turn their pain and personal trauma into a powerful force for change . that be deeply true of Sarah , and of so many woman right across the country who have be victim of spike . Sarah ' s story be her own , but it have theme that will resonate with far too many people here and across the UK . it start on her birthday . like most of we , she be look forward to celebrate her birthday with her friend . they have organise drink in a nearby town , and the night start off fill with fun and joy . it end , though , with Sarah alone , traumatise , confused and unable to speak , in a car park outside the venue after she be spiked . sadly , this horrific act be one that far too many woman across the country be fall victim to . after she be spiked , Sarah try to do what she could . she have lose control of her word . she try to call out for help , but she feel unable to . an ambulance be call , but do not know what to do . it wait there with she , but do not take she to hospital or make sure that she get the aftercare and testing that she need . she be leave to fend for herself . what be really tragic be the fact that on top of all that trauma , and despite how difficult that moment in the car park must have be for she , it be not the only time in this experience that she feel alone . at every step — when she engage with the police and the authority , and when she push for action — she be ignore . there be insufficient action and insufficient focus . there be minimal follow - up and no prosecution , and the police take no further action on her case . many of we — possibly include myself , if I be be completely candid — would be completely flatten by that , but not Sarah . she turn that pain into a mobilise force and a determination to push for action . work with Spike Aware UK , she have be campaign for a specific offence of spike for some time , and she be as excited as I be to see that finally be bring forward by the Government in the Bill today . this real , meaningful change will ensure much more focus , much more action and hopefully much great awareness of the damage that spike can do , of the seriousness of the offence , and of the seriousness of the consequence that will hopefully now follow it . I thank my hon . friend for his brilliant articulation of Sarah ' s story , which for too many of we , include myself as the MP for Darlington , be not uncommon . before I be elect as the MP , I raise this issue in Darlington because a number of people there have be affect by spike . do he agree that bring this provision into law today be important because for so many people — often woman and vulnerable people — not be believe when they report be spiked be one of the big barrier to seek justice ? a lot of we have be inspire by my hon . friend ' s campaign before she arrive in this place , and her intervention be a powerful example of why . it be exactly that moment — that lack of belief — that far too many victim of spike be encounter when they go to the authority at the moment , and it be that lack of belief that we be look to completely undercut in legislate to make this a specific offence today . Sarah reach out to I because , excited as she be about the Bill , she rightly want to ensure that we be deliver it as fully as possible . I know that it be the same motivation that make the hon . member for Isle of Wight East table his amendment . I thank the Minister for take the time to speak to I about this amendment on Friday . I know from the conversation she have have with official that they be confident that , as draft , the Bill would capture the fullness of possible offence relate to spike . I be grateful to the hon . member , particularly for set out the case of his constituent , who be here in Westminster yesterday ; indeed , I also meet she . do he accept that it be those of we elect in this Chamber who make decision , and that assurance from official that can not be articulate in this House — I be look for that articulation — be not a good reason not to back my amendment ? I thank the hon . member for all the work he have do on this important issue through table the amendment , not just now but in Committee . I do not want to put word into the Minister ' s mouth , but I be pretty sure she will be able to articulate some of those official ' view back to he when sum up . however , I want to ask the Minister , as I be sure the hon . Member and other colleague would want to , that , as we go through this process — and give that she care so passionately about this issue — she continue to test that understanding with official . we owe it to Sarah and the many other victim of spike to ensure that we get this right . I know the Minister be as determined as I be to ensure that happen , and I really hope that as a result we can fully test official ' understanding and that view before we finally get the Bill into law , to ensure that we be take the fullness of action need to tackle spike . that fullness of action be important , because the issue that Sarah encounter and the challenge that far too many people face from spike right across the country be not one that we can solve with legislation alone . that be an important part of why we be act by bring forward a new clause today , and why we be discuss amendment 19 . if the Bill be finally pass and finally bring forward that specific offence that so many of we have be look for , I hope that it will not be the end of the story . I hope the Minister will be able to bring forward further action , work closely with police chief and commissioner , to ensure that this be drill into their strategic vision as part of our national strategy to reduce violence against woman and girl . we need to make sure that force appropriately prioritise spike case , that officer be appropriately train to encounter they and take they seriously , ensure that deadline around collect CCTV be not miss before crucial evidence be delete . we need to ensure that right across the country , there be not a single force that be not take this issue with the seriousness that it deserve . I will certainly be reach out to both my police and crime commissioner to urge they to do exactly that , and I would welcome the Minister ' s thought about how this Government can make sure that we use all the power and tool at our disposal to ensure that police force be do so too . if we be to deter possible perpetrator of this crime , it be important that the severity of this new legislation and the new penalty be well understand , too . I would therefore welcome the Minister ' s thought on how we can ensure that we be disseminate the action we be underline today , and hopefully bring into law in due course , to ensure that right across the country no one be under any illusion that spike be not a deeply serious offence . it will be treat as such by this government and by the police , who will go after they with the full force of the law . for far too long , victim like Sarah and far too many people — typically woman — right across the country have be leave expose to spike . they have be leave feeling like they be victim and leave to go through their experience alone . fantastic organisation like Spike Aware UK have do all they can to champion their cause , to bring they together , to mobilise and to reinforce the need for change , but it be only through action nationally and deliver through our police force right across the country that we can finally do justice to the severity of this issue and to the passionate campaigning of constituent like Sarah , who for far too long have feel that they have be suffer alone . I be glad to see this legislation come forward and to see this specific spike offence include . I look forward to work with the Minister to ensure that we can deliver it in as ambitious a way as possible . as we have hear , the Bill be broad in scope . before I turn to the couple of amendment that I support , I want to recognise that the Bill ' s scope be evidence by the breadth and number of amendment and new clause . it be worth gently remind ourselves that a number of the measure be carry over from the Criminal Justice Bill , which sadly fall due to the general election almost a year ago , though there be obviously new clause and amendment . I hope the Minister be in listen mode , in change mode and be willing to work across the House , and I hope that she accept some of these amendment , because they would go a long way to far improve this legislation . I have read through the Bill , and much of it go right to the heart of the community we seek to serve and represent . there be topic in the Bill that regularly pop up in my inbox and I be sure into colleague ' inboxe as well . I want to cover two specific area . the first be fly - tipping and litter — an issue that I have speak about on many occasion in this Chamber since I be first elect . I support the amendment and new clause table by the shadow Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Stockton West ( Matt Vickers ) . in an intervention early , I touch on the cost of litter to the country . I think I say that it be £ 1 million , but I mean £ 1 billion ; I hope that can be firmly correct , because it be a big difference . [ Official Report , 17 June 2025 ; Vol . 769 , c . 189 . ] ( Correction ) the principle be the same — it be money that could go back into our community — but £ 1 billion spend on manage litter and fly - tipping be a huge amount of money that could otherwise buy a huge amount of service for constituency up and down the country . do the right hon . Lady ' s calculation of £ 1 billion account for how people feel , for the degradation of pride in area where people fly - tip , and for the failure of local service to be able to afford to collect and clean up rubbish tip on the side of our road ? I wonder if there be a multipli effect in how people feel about their area because of all this fly - tipping . the hon . Lady make an important point . there be a social and community cost that be difficult to evaluate . I be fortunate to have some fantastic volunteer and group , include the Wombles group , that go out and litter pick . I do not mind go out and help when I can . there be a great sense of a community come together , but nothing be more frustrating than litter pick a street , walk back and find that one of the tosser have just toss some more litter out of their car . I do not think the right hon . Member be point at her shadow Minister when she be accuse somebody of be a litter tosser — I think it be just a dramatic gesture , because nothing could be far from the truth . build on the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Darlington ( Lola McEvoy ) , do the right hon . Member agree that when people see pothole unfilled , litter uncollected , overgrown verge and general disrepair — when they be walk through decline — they feel hopeless , not just about their community , in which they take such pride , but about the ability of their council and elect official to act on their most immediate priority ? do she agree that when we restore pride in place by fix these problem , we help to create a confidence that politic can deliver a well community ? that be an important point about pride in where we live and about hope . as I travel around the country , I often take a mental note of the number of pothole I drive across ; there be a noticeable difference from one authority to another . I have to say that Walsall be quite good at the moment when it come to fill pothole . the hon . Gentleman make an important point about litter and community . my local authority of late have be successfully prosecute some litterbug . I have see a couple of example on social medium just this week of individual who have be treat the high street in Pelsall as their own personal litter bin , and the local authority have go after they and fine they . that send a strong message , but there be more we can do . although much of this be about clear up after these people , we also need deterrence to stop this happening . a lot of it be down to a lack of respect for the community and antisocial behaviour , for want of a well word , and it be a burden that we should not expect the taxpayer to keep shoulder . we have reach something of a tipping point , and we need to do something more than let people walk away with a slap on the wrist . whether it be bin strike , as we have see in Birmingham , rural fly - tipping or littering , a lot of our community feel absolutely feed up and overwhelmed , and they want action . I support the amendment table by the shadow Minister because , take together , they form a serious and joined - up response that would help to protect and support not only our community and those who want to keep they clean , but the local environment and wildlife too . similarly , it be often local farmer who face the burden of fly - tipping . when fly - tipping happen on their land , the cost of remove it fall to they . it hardly seem fair that they be leave to foot the bill for waste that they do not create . amendment 172 , on clean - up cost , seek to address that . I have hear time and again from frustrated landowner and farmer that the system often punish the victim of fly - tipping , not the perpetrator . do the right hon . Lady have any thought on the idea that people who hire somebody privately to take away their rubbish be often be hold accountable for that third - party company dump the rubbish illegally ? People be at a loss to know what they be suppose to do . the hon . Lady make another important point about tackle waste crime — I think that be the technical phrase for it . again , that be something that I see locally . enforcement matter , but there also have to be strong reminder — I hate to use the word " education " , so perhaps " reminder " be good — to our constituent : if somebody come to you and say they will clear your rubbish away , your need to think carefully about where they be put that rubbish . in my constituency , fridge and mattress have be dump . I be drive down Bridle Lane last year and see a whole lorry or van - load of rubbish that have be fly - tip in the middle of the road . that mean that the road have to be block . that be outrageous and it need to stop . I support amendment 173 and 174 on cost liability guidance . they build on the principle that those who cause the mess should pay to clear it up . it should not fall , as it have time and again , on stretch local authority and private landowner to clean up the aftermath of that criminal behaviour . I touch on enforcement early . unless offender be financially liable , any deterrent will be limit . on litter , we must consider drive licence penalty point for those who be catch throw litter out of car . again , that would be a deterrent — something to remind people that it be simply not acceptable to throw litter indiscriminately out of a car . I accept that that would affect driver , but I think that they must take responsibility for the passenger in their car . I will leave my remark there , Madam Deputy Speaker , because I hope to catch your eye tomorrow to speak to further amendment and new clause . today have indicate that there be a lot of cross - party support for do more to tackle fly - tipping and litter , which be a scourge on our community . lawlessness , antisocial behaviour , street crime and shoplifting have drag our community down . when people believe that they can act with impunity , without fear of apprehension or respect for other , we need Parliament to come down hard to restore law and order and give the police the resource that they need to make our street safe again . I therefore take this opportunity to welcome the Crime and Policing Bill , which put right the year of damage and disregard cause by the previous Government . my focus today be on street racing , a problem that stretch across the country but have become a curse in Bassetlaw , where car speed along a stretch of the A57 , the by - pass that run through Worksop and then into the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Rother Valley ( Jake Richards ) . those unofficial road - race event be organise via social medium . People meet up in an edge - of - town car park and then stage race up and down the A57 , attract huge crowd who come to witness the speed and the flashy soup - up car with booming exhaust . resident live close to the A57 hear the noise , include the screeching of tyre , but they be terrified that they or a family member will get catch up with the racer as they drive home or go about their daily business . the fear of a nasty accident be all pervasive . across the country , people who have turn up to watch the racing have die , such as 19 - year - old Ben Corfield and 16 - year - old Liberty Charris from Dudley , and 19 - year - old Sophie Smith from Radcliffe — young life needlessly lose . let I say , in the spirit of openness , that as a young man I perhaps do not always drive as responsibly as I do now . although the hon . Lady be make an important point , there be an educational component to this . will she join I in commend the work of the Under 17 Car Club and its Pathfinder initiative , which teach young driver about the danger of drive in that fashion ? my concern be that such unorganised race event be hold to show off how fast and noisy car can be — there need to be much strong action to control that . I worry that there will be further death and accident if the police be not give the power to deal with it . in bassetlaw , I visit resident who tell I that their life be a live hell , with their nerve on edge every weekend . not only do they hear the noise , but the front of their house have become view platform for the crowd . I thank the hon . Lady for make that point , because I have experience exactly what she describe on my own street in Henley . we have a problem with street racing — boy race , if we can call it that — and I phone the police on several occasion . they say , " we know it ' s happen , but we don ' t have the resource to come and deal with it . " eventually they get so many call that they act . they put in place some sort of prevention order for antisocial behaviour , but that could be do only once — they could not do it over an extended timeframe . do she feel that the power should be strengthen for the police to stop that intimidating and antisocial behaviour ? I very much agree ; that be why I be raise it today . the hon . Gentleman talk about public space protection order , which I will come to shortly , but I think the law need to be strengthen to give the police much strong power to deal with the problem . it be not a local phenomenon , because it be happen right across the country and people be use encrypt social medium to organise the group . since those visit , I have be work with Bassetlaw district council and the police on this issue . that council have join force with Rotherham council , and they be bring forward a public space protection order , which I just mention , to cover the whole of the A57 — from outside Worksop all the way to Rotherham — with the ambition of prohibit car cruise and give the police the ability to serve fix penalty notice , prosecute or issue fine for breach . in the meantime , I have work with the police to install a CCTV camera at a key point on the A57 , and there be plan to put up a second . the camera be be use to collect datum on the vehicle that turn up for cruise event . the police then send pre - enforcement letter to the car owner . the owner be not necessarily drive at the time , however , because quite often young people have borrow their parent ' car , mean that the notice be be send to parent — but I think that be just as good , to be honest . the police say that that be help to reduce involvement . the police tell I that they have put dedicated staffing into patrol the A57 for the next four weekend . their zero - tolerance approach will include fine , seizure and report to the court . they be also share live intelligence on vehicle move around the county , in order to be proactive and prevent cruising and meet before they happen . they have be successful , they believe , in prevent racing before it start . like I , the police be fearful that someone could die or be seriously injure , so they regard this matter as a high priority . I be disappointed that the local police of the hon . member for Henley and Thame ( Freddie van Mierlo ) do not consider it in the same way . this be a serious issue . Most weekend on Friday , Saturday or Sunday night , such car be present . People perhaps just meet in an empty supermarket car park to compare their vehicle , but on other occasion they take the opportunity to race . I have be out to look at the car myself to see who those individual be . at first , I think that they be use their vehicle to engage in crime , but the whole focus be on show off their soup - up vehicle . we have already have death — quite often of the people who go out to witness the speeding — so I be call for much strong action to prevent further death . the increase order in the Crime and Policing Bill , such as respect order , will help to tackle antisocial behaviour . do my hon . friend think that they could be a vehicle — sorry , poor choice of word — to address the gathering that she have describe ? I agree with my hon . friend — those order could be use . the Bill strengthen the ability to seize motor vehicle when they be use in a manner cause alarm , distress or annoyance , but this be a nationwide problem , and I ask the Minister for a private discussion to consider whether the Bill can be strengthen to make it criminal to organise , promote or attend an unofficial road - race event . I welcome the Bill because it respect and recognise the daily risk our shop worker face . my constituent go to buy a pint of milk in his local Sainsbury ' s at Easter time . he be queue up for the milk when somebody rush in and sweep the whole shelf of Easter egg into a bag . they call it " supermarket sweep " , and it be the new form of shoplifting . it be not someone sneakily put something in their pocket or bag — it be people steal food to order very publicly , and it be food that be worth a lot of money . in my constituency of Darlington , I have witness people do what my hon . friend describe so often that it be now a common source of conversation between I and the assistant work in those shop . do she agree that USDAW ' s campaign to protect shop worker , which have be go on for year , be brilliant and that it be excellent that this Labour Government be go to finally introduce the right punishment for people who commit aggravate assault against shop worker ? USDAW be the first union I ever join , and I very much support its campaign . I share the fear that shop worker have , because there be nothing they can do . they have to sit or stand and watch the crime happen , for fear of be assault or abuse — that be the advice that USDAW and their management have give they . the law have to be strengthen to protect they . they have to go to work every day and face that fear , which create inordinate stress . that be unacceptable . my hon . friend be give a powerful speech . in my constituency of Bournemouth East , I regularly talk to shop worker who be experience the scourge of shoplifting — no , wholesale looting — and they be be make to feel incredibly unsafe . I be think of the staff of Tesco in Tuckton , the Co - op on Seabourne Road and Tesco on the Grove in Southbourne . I be also think of the owner of a wine shop who have a hockey stick beside they , so that they can chase away shoplifter who try to take cart of wine bottle . do my hon . friend agree that it be very good news that our Labour Government be introduce a new offence of assault retail worker and end the effective decriminalisation of shoplifting ? will she also commend the Co - op party , which , like USDAW , have campaign so hard for this new law ? I wholeheartedly agree . it be not just USDAW ; the Co - op party have campaign vociferously on this matter , too . it be so important , and I very much welcome the action this Government be take . this have go on for too long . People need to feel safe in the workplace , and this be the good step we can take towards that . shop worker in Worksop town centre also have to deal with an inordinate amount of antisocial behaviour . for example , I have be tell about how young people come into Greggs , take food from the cabinet and throw it about . the shop worker there feel so fearful that they have not take the covid screen down , because they do not want to be attack . the intimidation they feel be not acceptable . I have visit an opticians where the management escort their staff out of the workplace to their car on a regular basis . it be particularly bad last winter , when I speak to staff and management there because I be so concerned . I have have meeting with the council and the police to tackle this issue . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to increase neighbourhood policing , with more police in our town centre . everybody tell I they want to see more police walk the street so that they feel safe as they go into town and can make the choice about where they shop . I do not want people to think about their safety when they go into town centre in my constituency . it be a priority that they know where the police be , know they by their name and feel safe as they go into town . this Bill go to the heart of many of the issue that have break our country , and we be do what we can to repair it . there be not a huge number of area of the Bill that impact Scotland directly , give the role of the justice system in Scotland , but road traffic law be one of those area . antisocial behaviour involve vehicle have be raise by several member today , and some power , include those over vehicle licensing , remain reserved . it be important to remember that , although a lot of this antisocial behaviour be commit by young people — it be not exclusively young people ; many old driver and user of motorise vehicle commit antisocial behaviour — and it have a big impact , the vast majority of child do not engage in violent behaviour . the long - term trend for referral to the Children ' s Reporter in Scotland for both offence and non - offence ground show a significant reduction . however , road traffic offence and antisocial behaviour use vehicle have a significant impact , which amplify the effect for the community . in 2025 - 26 , the SNP increase police funding to £ 1 . 64 billion — an increase of £ 90 million on 2024 - 25 — to support police capacity and capability , and the Scottish Government be provide almost £ 57 million in additional resource funding , which be an increase of 4 % compare with the 2024 - 25 publish budget . one of the issue that police officer and community raise with I regularly be the use of e - bike . the legal use of e - bike and decision around their use be , broadly , a reserved matter for the UK Government . to be legally use in the UK , e - bike must meet the criterion of an electrically assist pedal cycle : the electric motor should not be able to propel the bike when it be travel at more than 15 . 5 mph , and the maximum power output should be 250 W . Police Scotland have publish advice on e - bike , include through awareness campaign , to provide clarity on the standard require for they to be permit to ride on public road , include safe and responsible use . the hon . Gentleman be make an excellent speech . this be , indeed , a serious problem across the country . in my constituency , many resident be concerned about speed e - bike of various type . I be pleased that our local force , Thames Valley Police , be take more action , and I would urge it to go far . I be glad to hear that Police Scotland be also take action on this terrible menace . I be pleased to hear that work be ongoing throughout the country . I should have say at the start that I be speak to amendment 2 , which stand in my name . the SNP recognise that there have be call for further legislation on licensing , which be what my amendment relate to . the SNP table a similar amendment in Committee relate to off - road bike . everyone who use our road and path be responsible for respect other road and path user and for follow the rule and guidance in the highway code . unfortunately , a significant minority of road user be not respect the right of other road user and be ride motorised vehicle illegally on our road and path . in the bad case , they have cause serious injury and death to either themselves or other people , cause huge heartache for the family affect . I commend the hon . member for make that important point — these young people who be use off - road bike be not only tear up community and green space , but put themselves at severe risk . I commend he for bring that point to the House , because it be such an important one . it go to the point make by the hon . member for Tewkesbury ( Cameron Thomas ) , who talk about his experience as a young driver and be a more responsible driver now . I would echo that myself , and I be sure most people recognise that in themselves . some of it be inexperience , sometimes it be just plain stupidity , but that education be important to help tackle the issue , and ensure that people understand the potential consequence of such action both for themselves and for other people . a particularly good education piece be do in north - east Scotland , when child from all over the area go to a large venue and be give a hard - hit and pretty blunt message , include video of serious road accident where people have be either seriously injure or kill . when they go into the venue they see a fine - look car ; when they come out , that car have be crush as if it have be in an accident . that be a hard - hit experience , and lot of young people come out of it with a new respect for drive and use motor vehicle . I turn now to off - road and quad bike , and particularly e - bike , which the amendment be focus on . the SNP support Police Scotland and its partner in deal with illegally modify vehicle and the misuse of off - road vehicle . the Scottish Government be consider way forward , in partnership with Police Scotland and local authority , to tackle vehicle nuisance and related safety issue . that include continue to liaise with the UK Government — a lot of work have go on behind the scene between the devolved Administrations and the UK Government , and I welcome that work by the Minister and her civil servant , which have be helpful . the ongoing collaboration ensure that scottish interest be consider in any UK - wide decision affect road safety . we be also consider further option , include liaise with the UK Government on a cross - party basis , and community engagement regard the potential use of mobile safety camera van to deter register vehicle from speed on public road . the amendment call on the Government to conduct a consultation on licensing and track the ownership of e - bike and e - scooter , which in many case be require to be insure , although the public be generally not aware of that . I will make a final plea to the insurance sector , which I think could be do a lot more to make it clear to people what insurance do and do not cover . the modification of vehicle — that be raise early by the hon . member for Bassetlaw ( Jo White ) — be one such issue , and I do not recall see a great deal about that in insurance document I have receive over the year . the insurance industry could do a lot more to increase public awareness and try to tackle such issue and support the Scottish and UK Governments in their objective . I will be speak to a number of new clause , but I will start by set out a tiny bit of context and say why the Bill be so important for my town . at the heart of Ipswich be a community — neighbour who support each other , and small business that serve we in the town centre and that be see real shoot of recovery . however , there be no doubt that when I be proudly elect as its MP , we be arguably at our low ebb for generation . regenerate our town be not just about economic ; it be about rebuild our community , and that be exactly what the Bill help to deliver . I welcome the Government ' s new clause and amendment , which strengthen the Bill far . this have be a good conversation and cross - party debate , but I say gently to the shadow Minister , who try to claim credit for a number of the change , that I do not think the argument " if only we ' d have 15 year , rather than 14 " will wash with many of the people watch . the challenge that we have speak about do not happen overnight ; they be year in the making . although I appreciate the conversation that we have have today , we must acknowledge the year of suffer that many of our resident , business and emergency service — I will come to they in a moment — have face . with those year behind we , I welcome the amendment that introduce important provision to help turn that tide . the Bill give the police the power they need to tackle mobile phone theft and recover steal good . as have be say , we be scrap the £ 200 shoplifting threshold , which have disproportionately hit small and independent business in my town and across the country . it also introduce tough new respect order to tackle the bad antisocial behaviour offender , so that our town centre be no long blight by the same offender again and again . any retail worker in any corner of our town will be able to list a shocking litany of abuse , harassment and sometimes even violence . as have be say , USDAW and the Co - operative party have do incredible work in that area , but such abuse be not part of the job , which be why the Bill create the specific offence of assault a shop worker . new clause 52 will introduce a new offence of trespassing with intent to commit a criminal offence . it will give the police the necessary power to act when individual enter a premise with the intention of commit serious criminal act , be that burglary , theft , assault or criminal damage . for business in town such as Ipswich , that matter hugely . I speak regularly with local shop owner , small business owner , and retail worker who be proud to serve their community but who have see at first hand the impact of rise theft , vandalism , break - in and antisocial behaviour on our high street . the new clause give our police a tool to intervene early before harm be do and when there be clear intent to commit a crime . the amendment also extend protection to those who protect we . that be why I strongly support new clause 60 to 62 , which strengthen the law to ensure that emergency worker be properly protect from the threat , intimidation and abuse that they all too often face while simply do their job to serve the public . too many of our frontline police officer , paramedic , NHS staff and firefighter have face unacceptable abuse . let I be frank : it be utterly disgusting that those serve our community and country , who keep we safe , sometimes with great sacrifice and selflessness , all too often suffer such unacceptable behaviour . I be sure that everyone in the Chamber have hear awful story of emergency worker who have endure abuse on account of their race or religion , and the new clause make clear the consequence for an individual if they engage in such bigotry . as I say early , we should never accept such thing as simply be part of the job . the new measure ensure that when people threaten or insult those emergency worker , there be clear criminal consequence . to our frontline worker , I say this directly : " this House stand with you . you deserve not just our gratitude , but our full support . you protect we , so we will protect you . " another sad indictment of the last few year be the absolute impunity for violence against woman and girl . I speak to so many woman in Ipswich who feel uncomfortable , particularly at night . woman have be tell to keep an eye on their drink for fear of spike , and victim of other heinous crime have feel that they be fight not just the perpetrator , but a system stack against they . I therefore strongly support strong stalk protection order and the new spike offence . however , the Bill be about more than new law ; it be also about fast justice , strong protection , and proper accountability for police and council when victim be let down . that be why I support new clause 59 , which rightly remove time limit for civil claim in child sexual abuse case . the law should never compound the trauma of victim by close the door to justice simply because too much time have pass . new clause 54 and 56 also apply much strong protection for child and young people . the abuse and coercion of child be a grotesque crime , and the coward use child to carry out their criminal operation should face the full force of the law . we know this abuse can be pernicious , and the tactic that be use be constantly evolve , but these new clause and other part of the Bill seek to tackle the issue head - on . like the Bill , the new clause also put victim where they should always have be — at the heart of the legal system . the Bill send a clear message : we will no long tolerate survivor be shut out by the technicality of the system . their voice matter , their experience matter and their right to seek justice matter . public confidence do not just rest on tough talk or new offence ; it rest also on a system that people trust — trust that the police will respond , victim will be support , those who commit crime will be hold to account , and power grant will be use fairly , proportionately and with accountability . the safety of our community can not rest on central Government alone . I welcome this Bill ' s focus on partnership — not pass problem between agency , but solve they together . the national initiative match our local initiative in Ipswich . I have be work with Labour - lead Ipswich borough council to put in place a groundbreake partnership with Ipswich Central to tackle street drinking in our town centre . the Bill be proof that if we work together , we can deliver at every level . while we bring forward fully form and fully cost plan to make a difference to the life of people in my town , and in other , I be only too aware that some people still want to divide community such as our in Ipswich . they rarely offer real solution , policy or change . instead , they simply want to feed resentment , and pit neighbour against neighbour . I know that we be strong when we stand together — not divide by fear or set against each other , but unite in our determination to make our town and our country safe , fair and more secure for everyone . that be exactly what the Bill will give we . rise — Order . before I call the next speaker , I inform the House that I plan to call the Minister at 3 . 50 pm , which would give the remain Members bob about five minute each . I rise to support amendment 19 , in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight East ( Joe Robertson ) . I hope that the Minister listen to the compelling case that my hon . Friend make , and to the compelling case make by the hon . member for Hitchin ( Alistair Strathern ) on the issue of spike more generally . I want to put on record my support for my constituent , Colin and Mandy Mackie , and their organisation , Spike Aware UK . I do not think any of we can fully comprehend their experience : the police knock on their door to tell they that their 18 - year - old son have die at college from a drug overdose , but they subsequently find out that his non - alcoholic drink have be spike by five ecstasy tablet . as other member have say , there be no support or help for the family in that situation . the police assume that he have die of a drug overdose although they do not know that , and they subsequently apologise to the Mackies for their treatment of they . what I particularly admire about Colin and Mandy be how they have focus their effort on ensure that their experience be not share by anyone else . that be why I very much welcome the inclusion of spike in the Bill , which be a continuation from the Criminal Justice Bill introduce in the previous Parliament . the point to be make be about certainty , and the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight East bring certainty to the situation . I have be in this House with previous Ministers who have be tell by official that spike be already cover by legislation , and therefore there be no need for specific mention of spike . on that point , will my right hon . friend give way ? give the stricture on time , I have well not . Previous Ministers say that there be no need for specific legislation on spike , because it be already cover . campaigning , include by your colleague , Madam Deputy Speaker , the First Deputy Chairman of Ways and Means , the hon . member for Bradford South ( Judith Cummins ) , and by my former colleague , Richard Graham , demonstrate that there be a need for a specific measure , and that if we be go to have a specific measure , it need to bring certainty . part of that certainty be for the benefit of the police and other . the police should know that that reckless behaviour be also a crime , and there should not be any dubiety when they arrive at a venue to find someone in a partially conscious state or unable to articulate what have happen to they . it will also allow campaigning to be clear that whatever the circumstance , a drink be spiked or a person be inject , and that be a crime . amendment 19 — or perhaps another amendment that the Government might bring forward in the other place — would bring clarity , which be important . that be what we need to bring about . as the hon . member for Hitchin say , that can lead to the great training of the police and NHS worker to be able to support people in a spike situation . I hope the Minister will reflect on everything that have be say today . the final point I will make relate particularly to Scotland . we need to have a common approach across the UK ; it should not matter whether somebody be spiked in Glasgow , Manchester or Cardiff . that be not to disrespect the devolution settlement and the different approach of the criminal justice system . the effect and the impact should be the same wherever people be , and the criminality should most certainly be the same , whether the behaviour be intentional or reckless . in the interest of time , I will skip through the many amendment I want to support , but there be a few that will really make a difference to people in Milton Keynes Central . first , I reiterate what my hon . friend the Member for Bassetlaw ( Jo White ) say on street racing . unfortunately , we have a Formula 1 driver who say that his success be base on practise on the grid road of Milton Keynes , which really encourage load of people to decide to race there . in term of stalk and spiking , the most egregious bit of spike for I be the premeditation — source the material , bring they to the venue then use they on a person . that be not a crime do on the spur of the moment : significant premeditation come into it . one of the major issue we have have in Milton Keynes be organise beg outside our shopping centre . it be organise by gang . People often look like they be homeless , or they be assume to be homeless by care resident in Milton Keynes , but in reality they be house by the council , and they be exploit . they have a rota for which corner or which shop they can each sit in front of during which period of time , and the majority of the proceed that people donate go to an organised crime network . those individual be be exploit in other way as well . new clause 53 be so important in address this issue as the real , true crime that it be — not the crime of the people beg but of those organise the begging . I also rise in support of new clause 55 , which be on special measure for witness , particularly around youth justice . that be very important . as we hear from my hon . friend the Member for North West Cambridgeshire ( Sam Carling ) , many people who experience sexual abuse do not come forward for year and year , so new clause 59 , which would remove limitation , be really important . let I address a couple of other thing in the Bill . my hon . friend the Member for Bolton North East ( Kirith Entwistle ) make such an important speech consider domestic abuse , and she explain it very well . new clause 71 be about bar person not have employment in law enforcement . we must recognise that , follow the case of Sarah Everard , confidence in law enforcement be at an all - time low . when people call law enforcement because they have experience domestic abuse , sexual harassment , rape or stalking , they be at their most vulnerable and they need to know that the people respond to those incident — no matter which law enforcement service — will treat they accord to the law , and not with some of their own natural bias , as we have see . that bring I to my final point . in term of confidence in policing , we need to ensure that all law enforcement be do with clarity of law , not because of particular campaigning , as we have see with the enforcement of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 , which we will debate later . I be incredibly fortunate to sit on the Bill Committee consider this legislation . it be clear that , although opinion differ on detail , we all share a common goal of tackle crime in a meaningful way , so that we can make people feel safe in our community again . as a community - focus liberal , I have state many time that keep people safe and instill safety in our neighbourhood be some of the most powerful way that we can foster strong community and improve the quality of life and freedom of opportunity that everyone in our country should enjoy . I be grateful to the Government for their willingness to engage with the point that we all make in Committee , particularly to the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , the hon . member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , and the Minister for Policing and Crime Prevention , the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North and Cottingham ( Dame Diana Johnson ) . despite several productive conversation , it be frustrating that several important addition to the Bill be reject by the Government in Committee . for that reason , I rise to speak in favour of several new clause before we . although several of the measure close to my heart — those regard community policing , knife crime and stalking — be not before the House today , there be several press new clause that I feel I must speak to . they pertain to what should be fundamental right in our country : the right to freedom from oppression , and the right of access to proper healthcare for woman . I congratulate the hon . member for North West Cambridgeshire ( Sam Carling ) on the courage he demonstrate in his speech early , and encourage the Government to consider the measure he speak to if they come back from the Lords , if not to consider they beforehand . I start by express my support for amendment 19 , which deal with spike and be table by the hon . member for Isle of Wight East ( Joe Robertson ) . spike be a horrendous offence — a deeply violate act of harm and potential exploitation that must be treat with the utmost seriousness . in Committee , we hear evidence from Colin Mackie , who be the chair and co - founder of Spike Aware UK . Colin give important evidence for the Committee to consider , indicate that spike offence can often be intend as prank , rather than intend to cause harm . his son Greg die in a suspect drink - spike incident in a club , and Colin have since campaign alongside Greg ' s mother Mandy for a change in the law to stop similar incident from occur . I also thank the hon . member for Hitchin ( Alistair Strathern ) for raise broad concern about spike . I agree that further measure need to be introduce , include a & E awareness , so that testing take place , further evidence can be gather and a conviction can be secure . amendment 19 be a sensible and necessary clarification of the law . it make clear what seem painfully obvious : that what matter in spike case be not the nature of the intent , but the recklessness and callousness of the act itself . I encourage member across the House to support the amendment when we vote . I be also pleased to support amendment 160 , as well as related new clause 92 and 93 , which we will discuss tomorrow . take together , these amendment create vital safeguard around the right to protest ; they would subject facial recognition technology to the proper scrutiny of a regulatory framework for the first time , and would enshrine the right to protest . from many people in my constituency of Sutton and Cheam and from campaign group such as Liberty , I know that these measure be long overdue , and will provide much - need clarity to police force as they use new technology to fight crime . Police force themselves be ask for these measure , and I be look forward to a briefing later this month from the Minister on that subject . in particular , I remind the House that Hongkongers in my community be deeply worried about the impact of unregulated use of facial recognition technology on our street . they fear that , if compromise , such technology could provide a powerful tool to the Chinese Communist party in its transnational oppression of Hongkongers here on our street in Britain . we know that facial recognition technology can be a powerful tool for police force as they try to keep we safe , but as with any new technology with great capacity to infringe on our liberty in daily life , it must be properly regulate . liberal Democrats have a proud tradition of stand up for those civil liberty , argue that we must never throw they away or sleepwalk into surrender they . amendment 160 , which the Liberal Democrats have table , be rightly in that tradition . it would make sure that facial recognition technology can not be use in real time for biometric identification unless certain condition be satisfied , such as prevent or investigate serious crime under the Serious Crime Act 2007 or public safety threat such as terrorist attack , or search for miss , vulnerable people . it would also make the use of such technology subject to judicial authorisation , with a judge need to approve its use and appropriately define its scope , duration and purpose . these regulation would allow for safe use of this important tool , protect our civil liberty while keep we safe from crime . in the time remain , I will speak to amendment 9 , which have be table by the hon . member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) and be support by many member across the House , include myself . I welcome the Government ' s provision to limit sex offender ’ ability to change their name , and I know that many other member also welcome they . I pay tribute to tireless campaigner such as Della Wright , who have campaign for such provision for many year and who I have the privilege of meeting at an event organise by Emma Jane Taylor , another tireless campaigner and a constituent of mine . Emma Jane be a survivor , and have speak very bravely about the lifelong impact of child sexual abuse . like many survivor , she have channel her pain into campaign such as this one and have set up a charity , Project 90 - 10 . that charity be base on research show that 90 % of child sexual abuse be carry out by person know to the victim . we be right in the House to focus — as we have in the past — on online abuse and abuse by stranger , but we should not forget that 90 % of child sexual abuse be carry out by someone the victim know . work by Project 90 - 10 raise awareness of good safeguarding practice . Emma Jane bring to my attention the loophole that allow sex offender to change their name and , potentially , continue to offend untraced . amendment 9 would strengthen the name change provision in the Bill by require sex offender to notify the police of their intention to change their name seven day before submit an application to do so . even if the government do not adopt amendment 9 , either here — I know that it will not be vote on — or in the other place , it be important for they to monitor the success of the change that be in the Bill , and , in particular , the number of sex offender who do , and do not , come forward to comply with the rule . I hope that the Government will monitor development closely , and will introduce new legislation if the loophole be not closed , as they intend it to be . child sexual abuse be a wicked and despicable crime , and the Government be right to introduce these measure , as well as the other about which member have speak so eloquently . I ask the Government to follow up on the Bill ' s implementation , and to monitor that extremely closely , as this matter be important to many member of this House . I be grateful to member for set out the case for their amendment , and I will seek to respond to as many member as possible in the remain time available . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Stockton West ( Matt Vickers ) , table amendment 167 to 183 , which echo many of the amendment consider in Committee . I do not propose to repeat the consider response that my ministerial colleague and I provide at that stage , but I will deal with a couple of the amendment to which the shadow Minister refer today . amendment 175 deal with the possession of weapon with intent to use unlawful violence . it seek to increase the maximum sentence for possession of a bladed article or offensive weapon with the intention to use unlawful violence from four year to 14 . increase the maximum penalty for that offence in isolation , without look at other possession offence , would result in inconsistency in the law in this area . we have set the maximum penalty for the " possession with intent " offence at four year ' imprisonment to be consistent with the maximum penalty for all other knife - relate possession offence . we will conduct a review of the maximum penalty for knife - relate offence , and establish whether they be still appropriate . the shadow Minister say that the independent reviewer of terrorism legislation have recommend that the sentence for the new offence of possession of a weapon with intent to cause violence should be increase substantially . in his recent report , the independent reviewer recommend the creation of a new offence for case where an individual prepare to kill more than two people . he say : " if this offence be create , then there be no need to reconsider the maximum sentence for the propose offence of possess an article with violent intent under the Crime and Policing Bill . " as I have say , the Government be consider create such an offence , so increase the maximum sentence for the new offence of possess an article with violent intent be unnecessary . we will debate the matter far tomorrow , when we consider the shadow Minister ' s new clause 143 . the shadow Minister also table , and refer to , amendment 172 and 173 , which would make those responsible for fly - tipping " liable for the cost of clean up . " when local authority prosecute fly - tipper , on conviction , a cost order can already be make by the court , so that a landowner ' s cost can be recover from the perpetrator . while sentencing be a matter for the court , guidance on present court case produce by the National Fly - Tipping Prevention Group , which the Department for the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs chair , explain that prosecutor should consider apply for compensation for the removal of waste , and we will consider build on that advice in the statutory guidance issue under clause 9 . amendment 174 concern point on drive licence as a penalty for fly - tipping . again , sentencing be a matter for the court , but I will ask my counterpart at DEFRA , who be responsible for policy on fly - tipping , to consider the benefit of enable the endorsement of penalty point for fly - tipper . the hon . member for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) speak to amendment 160 on the use of live facial recognition in the policing of protest . live facial recognition be a valuable policing tool that help to keep people safe . its use be already govern by the Human Rights Act 1998 and data protection law . I do , however , recognise the need to assess whether a bespoke legislation framework be need , and we will set out our plan on this later in the year . on facial recognition , do the Minister agree that my amendment 21 would stop the police access everybody ' s drive licence to use they for complete surveillance , which be not the intention of the Bill ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that point . I probably will not have time to go into detail , but the amendment be not require because what my hon . friend describe be not what the Bill be intend to do . I be very happy to speak to she outside the Chamber about that , but I reassure she that that be not its intention . on amendment 157 , the Home Office regularly engage with frontline delivery partner and practitioner to understand how the antisocial behaviour power be be use , and their effectiveness in prevent and tackle ASB . that be why the Bill include measure to strengthen the power available to police and local authority . new requirement in the Bill for local agency to provide information about ASB to the Government will far enhance our understanding of how the ASB power be use to tackle antisocial behaviour . on amendment 158 , I want to make it clear that housing injunction and youth injunction be not novel . they be already provide for in legislation in the form of the civil injunction , which be be split into three separate order : the respect order , the youth injunction and the housing injunction . the youth and housing injunction retain element of the exist civil injunction that be not cover by the new respect order — namely , element relate to offender under 18 and housing - relate nuisance ASB . I also assure the House that any revision to the ASB statutory guidance be extensively consult on with relevant stakeholder , include frontline practitioner . the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Hazel Grove , also speak to amendment 3 , table by the hon . member for Wells and Mendip Hills ( Tessa Munt ) , which would apply the duty to report child sexual abuse to anyone work or volunteer in any capacity for religious , belief or faith group . I know that she have have an opportunity to discuss that amendment in recent day with the Minister who have responsibility for safeguard . turn to the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for North West Cambridgeshire ( Sam Carling ) , I think it be very helpful and useful for the House to hear his experience and knowledge of the issue involve Jehovah ' s Witness group , and he bring to life what it mean when such report be make . on amendment 10 , the Government do not consider that it would be proportionate to provide for a criminal sanction that may inadvertently create a chilling effect on those who wish to volunteer with child or enter certain profession . we be create a specific offence of prevent or deter a person from comply with the duty to report , and anyone who seek deliberately to prevent someone from fulfil their mandatory duty to report child sexual abuse will face the full force of the law . will the Minister give way ? I will continue , because I need to cover other amendment that have be table . on amendment 11 , assess the sign and indication of abuse can be complex and subjective , particularly for the very large number of non - expert that this duty will apply to , many of whom be engage with child infrequently or irregularly . we have therefore choose to focus the duty on scenario in which a reporter have be give an unambiguous reason to believe that they be in receipt of an allegation of child sexual abuse . amendment 22 seek to add a reference to the legislative definition of " position of trust " in schedule 7 . however , a person occupy a position of trust only in relation to specific sexual offence commit against a specific child , and the term ' s value as a definition for a reporter of abuse be therefore limited . the amendment also have the potential to create confusing duplication , give the significant overlap between regulated activity with child and position of trust . the list of activity in schedule 7 have be draw up to set out activity involve position of trust that may not be adequately cover by the definition of regulated activity . the Government will of course keep this list under review , and amend it if necessary . my hon . friend the Member for Bolton North East ( Kirith Entwistle ) speak to amendment 20 , which relate to the new broad offence of encourage or assist self - harm in clause 95 . she make a very passionate speech on this issue , and I know that she , too , have meet the Minister to discuss it in recent day . on sentencing , the court must already consider the circumstance of each case , include aggravate and mitigate factor , and follow relevant guideline set by the independent Sentencing Council . where a defendant have previous conviction , this be already recognise as a statutory aggravate factor in sentencing . on whether a charge of murder should be bring in the circumstance set out in the amendment , I have to say to my hon . friend that the amendment be wholly inconsistent with the criminal offence of murder , which have different element that must be meet before a person can be convict . that say , it be important to recognise that where the encouragement or assistance result in suicide , the separate offence of encourage or assist suicide apply ; manslaughter may be charge if there be a direct link between the abuse and the suicide . the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) speak to amendment 161 , which aim to delete clause 114 . the clause will allow the police to impose condition on a protest near a place of worship if the police have a reasonable belief that the protest may deter individual from access the place of worship for religious activity , even if that effect be not intend . that give the police total clarity on how and when they can protect place of worship , while respect the right to peaceful protest . a number of hon . and right hon . member speak about spike , include my hon . friend the Members for Hitchin ( Alistair Strathern ) and for Darlington ( Lola McEvoy ) , the right hon . member for Dumfriesshire , Clydesdale and Tweeddale ( David Mundell ) , and my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes Central ( Emily Darlington ) , as well as the hon . member for Isle of Wight East ( Joe Robertson ) , who table amendment 19 . before I say anything else , I pay tribute to all those who have campaign on this issue for many year , include family and campaign group . Richard Graham , a former Member of this House , be a pioneer of the case for bring forward a spike amendment . as discuss in Committee , the offence as draft already capture a wide range of criminal behaviour , which cover both spike and non - spike incident ; for example , it cover the victim be pepper spray . as for the reference to a specific intent to " injure , aggrieve or annoy " , that wording be of long standing and have be widely interpret by the court . every case will be judge on the fact . for instance , if someone administer a harmful substance as a prank , they would likely be find to have intend to " annoy " or " aggrieve " . the broadness of the new offence , and the increase in the maximum penalty as compare to the penalty for the exist offence under section 24 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 , be , in the Government ' s view , sufficient . introduce recklessness as an alternative to intent risk over - complicate the law and be unnecessary for secure appropriate conviction . the hon . member for Isle of Wight East spend a lot of time look at this issue , so I want to address it . the spike clause in the Bill be model on the offence under the 1861 Act , which do not have a recklessness test . in the 2004 case of Gantz , an intention to " loosen up " the victim — he refer to that intention in the example he give today — be cover ; it may be helpful for he to reflect on that . we also understand that as recently as last month , a person be convict of spike another person " as a joke " . we therefore deem that the inclusion of " recklessness " be unnecessary to ensure the appropriate conviction that we be look for with this new offence . however , we be very happy to continue to have conversation about this to ensure that we get the law absolutely right . many other speech be make today that I would like to comment on , but I be run swiftly out of time . in my early comment , I refer to amendment 4 to 8 from the hon . member for Brighton Pavilion ( Si â n Berry ) . I fully understand why amendment 2 be table by the hon . member for Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey ( Graham Leadbitter ) , but those who cycle have a duty to do so safely and in accordance with the highway code , and they be wholly responsible and liable for their action . in conclusion , I hope that in the light of the response I have give to the amendment today , Members will not press they . I commend new clause 52 to the House . debate interrupt ( Programme Order , this day ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the question already propose from the Chair ( Standing Order no . 83e ) , that the clause be read a second time . question agree to . new clause 52 accordingly read a second time , and add to the Bill . the Deputy Speaker then put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83e ) . New Clause 53 - arrange or facilitate beg for gain " ( 1 ) a person commit an offence if , for gain , the person arrange or facilitate another person ' s beg . ( 2 ) a person who commit an offence under this section be liable on summary conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceed the maximum term for summary offence or a fine ( or both ) . ( 3 ) in subsection ( 2 ) ' the maximum term for summary offence ' mean — ( a ) if the offence be commit before the time when section 281 ( 5 ) of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 come into force , 6 month ; ( b ) if the offence be commit after that time , 51 week . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this amendment make it an offence to arrange or facilitate another ' s beg . when the repeal of the Vagrancy Act 1824 by the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 come into force , beg will no long be a criminal offence , so encouraging or assist begging will cease to be an offence under the Serious Crime Act 2007 . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 54 - prove an offence under section 38 " ( 1 ) this section apply for the purpose of section 38 . ( 2 ) where it be allege that a person ( D ) intend to cause a child to commit an offence , it be sufficient to prove that D intend to cause the child to do an act which would amount to the commission of that offence . ( 3 ) where it be allege that a person ( D ) intend to cause a child to do anything outside the United Kingdom which would constitute an offence if do in any part of the United Kingdom , it be sufficient to prove that D intend to cause the child to do an act which , if do in any part of the United Kingdom , would amount to the commission of that offence . ( 4 ) where it be allege that a person ( D ) intend to facilitate the causing of a child , in future , to — ( a ) commit an offence , or ( b ) do anything outside the United Kingdom which would constitute an offence if do in any part of the United Kingdom , it be sufficient to prove that D intend to facilitate the causing of the child in future to do an act which would amount to the commission of that offence , or would if do in any part of the United Kingdom amount to the commission of that offence . ( 5 ) in prove for the purpose of this section whether an act be one which , if do or if do in any part of the United Kingdom , would amount to the commission of an offence — ( a ) if the offence be one require proof of fault , it must be prove that — ( i ) D believe that , be the act to be do , it would be do with that fault , or ( ii ) d ' s state of mind be such that , be d to do it , it would be do with that fault ; ( b ) if the offence be one require proof of particular circumstance or consequence ( or both ) , it must be prove that D intend or believe that , be the act to be do , it would be do in those circumstance or with those consequence . ( 6 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 5 ) ( a ) ( ii ) , D be to be assume to be able to do the act in question . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this new clause and amendment 34 and 35 amend this chapter so as to adopt a similar approach , as regard what be intend to be cause or facilitate , to that find in Part 2 of the Serious Crime Act 2007 ( encourage or assist crime ) . they also cater for the offence be a UK - wide offence . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 55 - special measure for witness " ( 1 ) chapter 1 of Part 2 of the Youth Justice and Criminal Evidence Act 1999 ( special measure direction in the case of vulnerable and intimidate witness ) apply to relevant proceeding under this chapter as it apply to criminal proceeding , but with — ( a ) the omission of section 17 ( 4 ) to ( 7 ) , 21 ( 4c ) ( e ) , 22a , 27 ( 10 ) and 32 of that Act ( which55 make provision appropriate only in the context of criminal proceeding ) , and ( b ) any other necessary modification . ( 2 ) rule of court make under or for the purpose of chapter 1 of Part 2 of that Act apply to relevant proceeding under this chapter — ( a ) to the extent provide by rule of court , and ( b ) subject to any modification provide by rule of court . ( 3 ) section 47 of that Act ( restriction on report special measure direction etc ) apply with any necessary modification — ( a ) to a direction under section 19 of that Act as apply by this section ; ( b ) to a direction discharge or vary such a direction . section 49 and 51 of that Act ( offence ) apply accordingly . ( 4 ) in this section ' relevant proceeding under this chapter ' mean any proceeding under this chapter except proceeding relate to an offence under section 38 , 48 or 49 . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this new clause ( intend to appear after clause 49 ) apply the special measure direction provision in the Youth Justice and Criminal Evidence Act 1999 to civil proceeding under chapter 1 of Part 4 . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 56 - cause internal concealment of item for criminal purpose " ( 1 ) a person ( ' a ' ) commit an offence if — ( a ) a intentionally cause a person other than a who be a child ( ' c ' ) to conceal a specify item inside C ' s body , and ( b ) the condition in subsection ( 3 ) be meet . ( 2 ) it do not matter whether the specify item get inside C ' s body by an act of A or C or another person . ( 3 ) the condition be that a — ( a ) know or reasonably suspect that the specify item have be use in connection with criminal conduct , or ( b ) intend the specify item to be , or know or reasonably suspect that the specify item may be , use in connection with criminal conduct . ( 4 ) a person ( ' a ' ) commit an offence if — ( a ) any of the follow occur , where B be a person other than a who be not a child — ( i ) a compel b to conceal a specify item inside B ' s body , ( ii ) a coerce or deceive b into conceal a specify item inside B ' s body , or ( iii ) a engage in control or manipulative behaviour towards b , as a result of which b conceal a specify item inside B ' s body , and ( b ) the condition in subsection ( 3 ) be meet . ( 5 ) it do not matter whether the specify item get inside B ' s body by an act of A or b or another person . ( 6 ) a be to be treat as act in a way mention in subsection ( 4 ) ( a ) where a intentionally cause another person to act in that way ( as well as where a act in that way themselves ) . ( 7 ) in consider whether a person ' s behaviour towards B be control or manipulative , regard may be have to the nature of the relationship between the person and b and to any of b ' s personal circumstance which may make b more vulnerable than other person . ( 8 ) for the purpose of this section the following be specify item — ( a ) control drug within the meaning of the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 ; ( b ) psychoactive substance within the meaning of the Psychoactive Substances Act 2016 ; ( c ) a mobile telephone ; ( d ) a SIM card ; ( e ) an electronic device ; ( f ) cash ; ( g ) a payment card ; ( h ) jewellery ; ( i ) any article make or adapt for use for cause injury to person , or capable of cause serious injury to person ; ( j ) any weapon to which section 141 of the Criminal Justice Act 1988 ( offensive weapon ) apply , as that section apply in England and Wales . ( 9 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation amend this section for the purpose of change the item which be specify item . ( 10 ) a person who commit an offence under this section be liable — ( a ) on summary conviction , to imprisonment for a term not exceed the general limit in a magistrate ' court or a fine ( or both ) ; ( b ) on conviction on indictment , to imprisonment for a term not exceed 10 year or a fine ( or both ) . ( 11 ) in this section — ' child ' mean a person under the age of 18 ; ' criminal conduct ' mean — ( a ) a criminal offence , or ( b ) anything do outside England and Wales which would constitute a criminal offence if do in England or Wales ; ' electronic device ' mean any device on which information be capable of be store electronically and include any component of such a device ; ' payment card ' mean a credit card , a charge card , a prepaid card or a debit card ; ' SIM card ' mean a removable physical subscriber identity module . ( 12 ) in Schedule 4 to the Modern Slavery Act 2015 ( offence to which defence in section 45 do not apply ) , in paragraph 36d ( insert by section 38 ) , after the entry for section 38 insert — ' section ( cause internal concealment of item for criminal purpose ) ( cause internal concealment of item for criminal purpose ) ' . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 57 - Secretary of State guidance " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may issue guidance to relevant officer about the exercise of their function in connection with — ( a ) the prevention , detection and investigation of offence under section 38 ; ( b ) CCE prevention order under section 40 ; ( c ) CCE prevention order within the meaning of chapter 2A of Part 11 of the Sentencing Code ( order make on conviction ) ; ( d ) the prevention , detection and investigation of offence under section 53 ; ( e ) the prevention , detection and investigation of offence under section ( cause internal concealment of item for criminal purpose ) . ( 2 ) a relevant officer must have regard to any guidance issue under this section . ( 3 ) ' relevant officer ' mean — ( a ) a chief officer of police , within the meaning of section 101 ( 1 ) of the Police Act 1996 , ( b ) the chief constable of the Ministry of Defence Police , ( c ) the Chief Constable of the British Transport Police Force , and ( d ) the Director General of the National Crime Agency . ( 4 ) but subsection ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) do not apply to the exercise of function in connection with the matter in subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) or ( d ) by — ( a ) the Chief Constable of the British Transport Police Force , or ( b ) the Director General of the National Crime Agency , in relation to Scotland . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State may revise any guidance issue under this section . ( 6 ) before issue any guidance or revision under this section , the Secretary of State must consult such person as the Secretary of State consider appropriate . ( 7 ) subsection ( 6 ) do not apply to revision if the Secretary of State consider that they be not substantial . ( 8 ) the Secretary of State must publish any guidance or revision issue under this section . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this amendment make provision for guidance by the Secretary of State to the police about the matter deal with by Part 4 . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 58 - Department of Justice guidance " ( 1 ) the Department of Justice in Northern Ireland ( ' the Department ' ) may issue guidance to the Chief Constable of the Police Service of Northern Ireland about the exercise of the Chief Constable ' s function in connection with — ( a ) the prevention , detection and investigation of offence under section 38 ; ( b ) the prevention , detection and investigation of offence under section 53 . ( 2 ) the Chief Constable of the Police Service of Northern Ireland must have regard to any guidance issue under this section . ( 3 ) the Department may revise any guidance issue under this section . ( 4 ) before issue any guidance or revision under this section , the Department must consult such person as it consider appropriate . ( 5 ) subsection ( 4 ) do not apply to revision if the Department consider that they be not substantial . ( 6 ) the Department must publish any guidance or revision issue under this section . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this amendment make provision for guidance by the Department of Justice in Northern Ireland to the Police Service of Northern Ireland about the offence under Part 4 which extend to Northern Ireland . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 59 - Removal of limitation period in child sexual abuse case " ( 1 ) the Limitation Act 1980 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 11 insert — ' 11ZA Actions in respect of personal injury attributable to child sexual abuse ( 1 ) none of the time limit give in the precede provision of this Act apply to an action to which this section apply . ( 2 ) this section apply to any action for damage for negligence , nuisance or breach of duty ( whether the duty exist by virtue of a contract or of provision make by or under a statute or independently of any contract or any such provision ) which meet condition 1 to 3 . ( 3 ) condition 1 be that the damage claim by the claimant consist of or include damage in respect of personal injury to the claimant . ( 4 ) condition 2 be that the claimant be under 18 on the date on which the cause of action accrue . ( 5 ) condition 3 be that the act or omission to which the claimant ' s personal injury be attributable constitute sexual abuse . ( 6 ) this section apply in relation to action bring , and cause of action accrue , before ( as well as after ) this section come into force . ( 7 ) but it do not apply in relation to a claim which , before this section come into force , be settle by agreement between the party or determine by a court ( whether or not the determination be subject to appeal ) . ( 8 ) this section do not apply to any action bring for damage under section 3 of the Protection from Harassment Act 1997 . ( 9 ) this section do not apply to a cause of action survive for the benefit of a person ' s estate by virtue of section 1 of the Law Reform ( Miscellaneous Provisions ) Act 1934 , except where an action be bring by the person before the person ' s death . 11zb Dismissal of action in respect of personal injury attributable to child sexual abuse ( 1 ) this section apply where an action to which section 11ZA apply be bring after the expiration of the time limit that would apply but for that section ( disregard the possibility of the time limit be disapplied under section 33 ) . ( 2 ) the court must dismiss the action if the defendant satisfy the court that it be not possible for a fair hearing to take place . ( 3 ) the court must also dismiss the action if — ( a ) the action be begin , or the cause of action accrue , before section 11ZA come into force , ( b ) the defendant satisfy the court that , because of the application of section 11ZA , there would be substantial prejudice to the defendant if the action be to proceed , and ( c ) have regard to that prejudice , and the prejudice to the claimant if the action be dismiss , the court be satisfied that it would not be equitable to allow the action to proceed . ( 4 ) in this section " the court " mean the court in which the action have be bring . ' ( 3 ) in section 12 ( special time limit for action under Fatal Accidents legislation ) after subsection ( 1 ) insert — ' ( 1A ) an action under the Fatal Accidents Act 1976 may not be bring if — ( a ) section 11ZA would have apply to an action by the person injure to recover damage in respect of the injury , and ( b ) the death occur after the expiration of the time limit that would have apply but for that section ( disregard the possibility of that time limit be overridden under section 33 ) . ' ( 4 ) in section 14b ( 1 ) ( override time limit for negligence action ) after ' section 11 ' insert ' or 11ZA ' . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this new clause remove the time limit for bring a civil claim for personal injury in case where the personal injury be attributable to child sexual abuse . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 60 - threaten , abusive or insult behaviour towards emergency worker " ( 1 ) a person ( ' d ' ) commit an offence if condition 1 to 4 be meet . ( 2 ) condition 1 be that d — ( a ) use towards an emergency worker ( ' e ' ) threaten , abusive or insulting word or behaviour , or ( b ) display or give to E any writing , sign or other visible representation which be threaten , abusive or insulting . ( 3 ) in this section ' d ' s relevant conduct ' mean the conduct of D that meet condition 1 . ( 4 ) condition 2 be that d — ( a ) intend the word or behaviour , or the writing , sign or other visible representation , to be threaten , abusive or insulting , or ( b ) be aware that they may be threaten , abusive or insulting . ( 5 ) condition 3 be that d ' s relevant conduct be racially or religiously hostile towards e . ( 6 ) condition 4 be that d ' s relevant conduct — ( a ) be engage in by d with intent to make e believe , or be likely to make e believe , that immediate unlawful violence will be use against e by D , ( b ) be engage in by d with intent to provoke , or be likely to provoke , the immediate use of unlawful violence against E by another person , or ( c ) be engage in by d with intent to cause e harassment , alarm or distress , and cause e harassment , alarm or distress . ( 7 ) a person who commit an offence under this section be liable — ( a ) on summary conviction , to imprisonment for a term not exceed the general limit in the magistrate ' court or a fine ( or both ) ; ( b ) on conviction on indictment , to imprisonment for a term not exceed 2 year or a fine ( or both ) . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this new clause create a new offence in relation to emergency worker . it be similar to offence in section 31 of the Crime and Disorder Act 1998 ( racially or religiously aggravate offence under section 4 and 4A of the Public Order Act 1986 ) , but unlike those offence can be commit in dwelling . bring up , and add to the Bill . New clause 61 - threatening or abusive behaviour likely to harass , alarm or distress emergency worker " ( 1 ) a person ( ' d ' ) commit an offence if condition 1 to 3 be meet . ( 2 ) condition 1 be that d — ( a ) use threaten or abusive word or behaviour , or ( b ) display any writing , sign or other visible representation which be threaten or abusive , within the hearing or sight of an emergency worker ( ' e ' ) likely to be cause harassment , alarm or distress by d ' s conduct . ( 3 ) in this section ' d ' s relevant conduct ' mean the conduct of D that meet condition 1 . ( 4 ) condition 2 be that d — ( a ) intend the word or behaviour , or the writing , sign or other visible representation , to be threaten or abusive , or ( b ) be aware that they may be threaten or abusive . ( 5 ) condition 3 be that d ' s relevant conduct be racially or religiously hostile towards e . ( 6 ) it be a defence for D to show that — ( a ) d have no reason to believe that there be an emergency worker within hearing or sight who be likely to be cause harassment , alarm or distress , or ( b ) d ' s conduct be reasonable . ( 7 ) d be to be take to have show a matter if — ( a ) sufficient evidence of the matter be adduce to raise an issue with respect to it , and ( b ) the contrary be not prove beyond reasonable doubt . ( 8 ) a person who commit an offence under this section be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceed level 4 on the standard scale . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this new clause create an new offence in relation to emergency worker . it be similar to an offence in section 31 of the Crime and Disorder Act 1998 ( racially or religiously aggravate offence under section 5 of the Public Order Act 1986 ) , but unlike that offence can be commit in dwelling . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 62 - Interpretation of section ( threatening , abusive or insult behaviour towards emergency worker ) and ( threatening or abusive behaviour likely to harass , alarm or distress emergency worker ) " ( 1 ) this section apply for the interpretation of section ( threatening , abusive or insult behaviour towards emergency worker ) and ( threatening or abusive behaviour likely to harass , alarm or distress emergency worker ) . ( 2 ) ' emergency worker ' mean an emergency worker , within the meaning of section 3 of the assault on Emergency Workers ( Offences ) Act 2018 , act in their capacity as such . ( 3 ) the conduct of a person ( ' d ' ) be racially or religiously hostile to another person ( ' E ' ) if — ( a ) at the time of that conduct , or immediately before or after that time , D demonstrate towards e hostility base on E ' s membership ( or presume membership ) of a racial or religious group , or ( b ) d ' s conduct be motivate ( wholly or partly ) by hostility towards member of a racial or religious group base on their membership of that group . ( 4 ) it be immaterial whether d ' s hostility be also base , to any extent , on any other factor not mention in subsection ( 3 ) . ( 5 ) in subsection ( 3 ) — ' membership ' , in relation to a racial or religious group , include association with member of that group ; ' presumed ' mean presume by D ; ' racial group ' mean a group of person define by reference to race , colour , nationality ( include citizenship ) or ethnic or national origin ; ' religious group ' mean a group of person define by reference to religious belief or lack of religious belief . ( 6 ) a person whose awareness be impair by intoxication be to be treat as aware of anything they would be aware of if not intoxicate , unless they show that their intoxication — ( a ) be not self - induce or ( b ) be cause solely by the taking or administration of a substance in the course of medical treatment . ( 7 ) in subsection ( 6 ) ' intoxication ' mean any intoxication , whether cause by drink , drug or other mean , or by a combination of mean . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this section define term use in NC60 and NC61 . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 63 - extraction of online information follow seizure of electronic device " ( 1 ) where an electronic device have be lawfully seize , a senior officer may authorise an enforcement officer to extract information accessible by mean of one or more online account which be access by mean of the device before it be seize . ( 2 ) a senior officer may give an authorisation under subsection ( 1 ) only if satisfied that there be reasonable ground to believe that — ( a ) the information mention in subsection ( 1 ) include information that be relevant to a reasonable line of enquiry which be be , or be to be pursue , by an enforcement officer for one or more relevant purpose , and ( b ) it be not reasonably practicable to obtain that information by other mean . ( 3 ) the power confer by virtue of subsection ( 1 ) may be exercise only to extract information — ( a ) which be accessible by mean of the online account at the time the device be seize , and ( b ) which the person exercise the power consider necessary and proportionate to extract for the purpose of 63 obtain information which be relevant as mention in subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) . ( 4 ) an authorisation under subsection ( 1 ) also confer power to — ( a ) access an online account of the kind mention in that subsection , and ( b ) examine any information accessible by mean of such an account . ( 5 ) the power confer by virtue of subsection ( 4 ) ( b ) may be exercise only to the extent that the person exercise the power consider necessary and proportionate for the purpose of determine whether information may be extract under the authorisation . ( 6 ) a person who be give an authorisation under subsection ( 1 ) may arrange for a person to exercise the power confer by the authorisation on their behalf . ( 7 ) for the purpose of this section , each of the follow be ' relevant purpose ' — ( a ) in every case , the purpose of prevent , detect , investigate or prosecute crime ; ( b ) in a case where the device mention in subsection ( 1 ) be seize under section 43e of the Terrorism Act 2000 , the purpose of protect the public from the risk of terrorism ; ( c ) in a case where the device be seize under Schedule 5 to the Terrorism Prevention and Investigation Measures Act 2011 , a purpose connect with — ( i ) protect member of the public from a risk of terrorism , or ( ii ) prevent or restrict an individual ' s involvement in terrorism - relate activity ; ( d ) in a case where the device be seize under Schedule 11 to the National Security Act 2023 , a purpose connect with — ( i ) protect the United Kingdom from the risk of act or threat within section 33 ( 3 ) of that Act , or ( ii ) prevent or restrict an individual ' s involvement in foreign power threat activity . ( 8 ) in this Act , ' online account ' mean an account by mean of which information hold on a service provide by mean of the internet be make accessible . ( 9 ) reference in this Act to the extraction of information include its reproduction in any form . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this new clause , together with NC64 to NC67 , will confer power on the police constable and other enforcement officer to extract information accessible by mean of an online account in circumstance where the account have be access by mean of an electronic device which have be lawfully seize . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 64 - section ( extraction of online information follow seizure of electronic device ) : supplementary " ( 1 ) an authorisation under section ( extraction of online information follow seizure of electronic device ) may be give — ( a ) orally or in writing ; ( b ) subject to specify condition . ( 2 ) an authorisation under section ( extraction of online information follow seizure of electronic device ) must specify each of the online account in respect of which it be give . ( 3 ) as soon as reasonably practicable after give an authorisation under section ( extraction of online information follow seizure of electronic device ) , a senior officer must record in writing — ( a ) if the authorisation be give orally , the authorisation ( include any condition to which it be subject ) , and ( b ) in any case , the senior officer ' s reason for be satisfied as mention in section ( extraction of online information follow seizure of electronic device ) ( 2 ) . ( 4 ) any information which have be extract under an authorisation under section ( extraction of online information follow seizure of electronic device ) may be retain for so long as be necessary in all the circumstance ; but this be subject to section ( section ( extraction of online information follow seizure of electronic device ) : confidential information ) . ( 5 ) section ( extraction of online information follow seizure of electronic device ) do not limit any other power relate to the extraction of information or otherwise . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) see NC63 . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 65 - section ( extraction of online information follow seizure of electronic device ) : interpretation " ( 1 ) in section ( extraction of online information follow seizure of electronic device ) — ( a ) " enforcement officer " mean a person list in the first column of the follow table , and ( b ) " senior officer " , in respect of an enforcement officer , mean a person list in the corresponding entry in the second column of the table . enforcement officer senior officer a constable of a police force in England and Wales a constable of at least the rank of inspector a constable within the meaning of Part 1 of the Police and Fire Reform ( Scotland ) Act 2012 ( asp 8 ) ( see section 99 of that Act ) a constable of at least the rank of inspector a police officer within the meaning of the Police ( Northern Ireland ) Act 2000 ( see section 77 ( 1 ) of that Act ) a police officer of at least the rank of inspector an officer appoint by the Police Ombudsman for Northern Ireland under section 56 ( 1 ) or ( 1A ) of the Police ( Northern Ireland ) Act 1998 an officer of at least the rank of inspector a member of a civilian police staff a constable of at least the rank of inspector a constable of the British Transport Police Force a constable of at least the rank of inspector a constable of the Ministry of Defence police a constable of at least the rank of inspector a member of the Royal Navy Police or any other person who be under the direction and control of the Provost Marshal of the Royal Naval Police a member of the Royal Navy of at least the rank of lieutenant a member of the Royal Military Police or any other person who be under the direction and control of the Provost Marshal of the Royal Military Police a member of the Royal Military of at least the rank of captain a member of the Royal Air Force Police or any other person who be under the direction and control of the Provost Marshal of the Royal Air Force Police a member of the Royal Air Force of at least the rank of flight lieutenant a member of the tri - service serious crime unit describe in section 375 ( 1A ) of the Armed Forces Act 2006 or any other person who be under the direction and control of the Provost Marshal for serious crime a member of the Royal Navy , Royal Military or Royal Air Force of at least the rank of lieutenant , captain or flight lieutenant a National Crime Agency officer a National Crime Agency officer of grade 3 or above an officer of Revenue and Customs an officer of Revenue and Customs of at least the grade of high officer a member of the Serious Fraud Office a member of the Serious Fraud Office of grade 7 or above a person appoint as an immigration officer under paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to the Immigration Act 1971 an immigration officer of at least the rank of chief immigration officer an officer of the department of the Secretary of State for Business and Trade , so far as relate to the Insolvency Service an officer of the department of the Secretary of State for Business and Trade , so far as relate to the Insolvency Service , of grade 7 or above an officer of the department of the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care authorise to conduct investigation on behalf of the Secretary of State an officer of the department of the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care authorise to conduct investigation on behalf of the Secretary of State of grade 7 or above an officer of the NHS Counter Fraud Authority an officer of the NHS Counter Fraud Authority of at least pay band 8b ( 2 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation amend the table in subsection ( 1 ) — ( a ) so as to add a reference to a person , ( b ) so as to remove a reference to a person , or ( c ) so as to modify a description of a person mention in that table . ( 3 ) in section ( extraction of online information follow seizure of electronic device ) — " crime " mean — ( a ) conduct which constitute one or more criminal offence in any part of the United Kingdom , or ( b ) conduct which , if it take place in any part of the United Kingdom , would constitute one or more criminal offence ; " criminal offence " include — ( a ) a service offence within the meaning of the Armed Forces Act 2006 , and ( b ) an SDA offence within the meaning of the Armed Forces Act 2006 ( Transitional Provisions etc ) order 2009 ( S . I . 2009 / 1059 ) ; " involvement in foreign power threat activity " have the same meaning as in Part 2 of the National Security Act 2023 ( see section 62 ( 1 ) of that Act ) ; " involvement in terrorism - relate activity " have the same meaning as in Terrorism Prevention and Investigation Measures Act 2011 ( see section 4 of that Act ) ; " terrorism " have the same meaning as in the Terrorism Act 2000 ( see section 1 ( 1 ) to ( 4 ) of that Act ) . ( 4 ) reference in section ( extraction of online information follow seizure of electronic device ) to an electronic device which have be lawfully seize include — ( a ) a device possession of which have be take under — ( i ) section 448 ( 3 ) of the Companies Act 1985 ; ( ii ) section 2 ( 5 ) of the Criminal Justice Act 1987 ; ( b ) a device which have be produce in compliance with — ( i ) a notice under section 2 ( 3 ) of the Criminal Justice Act 1987 ; ( ii ) a notice under section 197 of the National Health Service Act 2006 . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) see NC63 . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 66 - section ( extraction of online information follow seizure of electronic device ) : confidential information " ( 1 ) this section apply where — ( a ) information have be extract under the power confer by virtue of section ( extraction of online information follow seizure of electronic device ) ( 1 ) , and ( b ) it appear to any person access the information as a result of the exercise of that power that the information be , or contain , confidential information . ( 2 ) subject to subsection ( 3 ) and ( 7 ) , as soon as reasonably practicable after access the confidential information , the person must ensure that — ( a ) the information be make inaccessible , or ( b ) where the extraction involve a copy be make of the confidential information , the copy be destroy . ( 3 ) the duty in subsection ( 2 ) do not apply if — ( a ) the confidential information be comprise in other information which be not confidential information , and ( b ) it be not reasonably practicable for the confidential information to be separate from that other information without prejudice its use in relation to a reasonable line of enquiry of the kind mention in section ( extraction of online information follow seizure of electronic device ) ( 2 ) ( a ) . ( 4 ) where the duty in subsection ( 2 ) be so disapplied , the person access the confidential information must ensure that it be not — ( a ) examine or copy , or ( b ) put to any use other than as mention in subsection ( 3 ) ( b ) . ( 5 ) in this section ' confidential information ' mean information which constitute or may constitute — ( a ) confidential journalistic material within the meaning of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 ( see section 264 ( 6 ) and ( 7 ) of that Act ) , or ( b ) protect material . ( 6 ) in this section ' protect material ' mean — ( a ) so far as this section apply to England and Wales — ( i ) item subject to legal privilege , within the meaning of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 ( see section 10 of that Act ) ; ( ii ) exclude material within the meaning of that Act ( see section 11 of that Act ) ; ( iii ) special procedure material within the meaning of that Act ( see section 14 of that Act ) ; ( b ) so far as this section apply to Scotland — ( i ) item in respect of which a claim to confidentiality of communication could be maintain in legal proceeding ; ( ii ) other material of a kind mention in paragraph ( a ) ( ii ) or ( iii ) of this subsection ; ( c ) so far as this section apply to Northern Ireland — ( i ) item subject to legal privilege within the meaning of the Police and Criminal Evidence ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1989 ( S . I . 1989 / 1341 ( N . I . 12 ) ) ( see Article 12 of that order ) ; ( ii ) exclude material within the meaning of that order ( see Article 13 of that order ) ; ( iii ) special procedure material within the meaning of that order ( see Article 16 of that order ) . ( 7 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation provide for circumstance in which the duty in subsection ( 2 ) do not apply in relation to protect material of the kind mention in subsection ( 6 ) ( a ) ( ii ) and ( iii ) , ( b ) ( ii ) , and ( c ) ( ii ) and ( iii ) . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) see NC63 . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 67 - section ( extraction of online information follow seizure of electronic device ) : code of practice " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must prepare a code of practice about — ( a ) the exercise of the power to give an authorisation under section ( extraction of online information follow seizure of electronic device ) ( 1 ) , and ( b ) the exercise of the power confer by such an authorisation . ( 2 ) the code may make different provision for different purpose or area . ( 3 ) in prepare the code , the Secretary of State must consult — ( a ) the Information Commissioner , ( b ) the Investigatory Powers Commissioner , ( c ) the Scottish Ministers , ( d ) the Department of Justice in Northern Ireland , and ( e ) such other person as the Secretary of State consider appropriate . ( 4 ) after prepare the code , the Secretary of State must lay it before Parliament and publish it . ( 5 ) after the Secretary of State have comply with subsection ( 4 ) , the Secretary of State may bring the code into force by regulation . ( 6 ) after the code have come into force the Secretary of State may from time to time revise it . ( 7 ) a person must have regard to the code of practice for the time be in force under this section in exercise , or decide whether to exercise , the power mention in subsection ( 1 ) . ( 8 ) a failure on the part of a person to act in accordance with the code do not of itself render the person liable to any criminal or civil proceeding . ( 9 ) but the code be admissible in evidence in criminal or civil proceeding and a court may take into account a failure to act in accordance with it in determine a question in the proceeding . ( 10 ) reference in subsection ( 2 ) to ( 9 ) to the code include a revise code , subject to subsection ( 11 ) . ( 11 ) the duty to consult in subsection ( 3 ) do not apply in relation to the preparation of a revise code if the Secretary of State consider that the propose revision be insubstantial . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) see NC63 . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 68 - extraction of online information : port and border security " ( 1 ) in Schedule 7 to the Terrorism Act 2000 ( port and border control ) , after paragraph 11a insert — ' extraction of online information 11b ( 1 ) this paragraph apply where an electronic device be detain under paragraph 11 after have be — ( a ) search or find on a search under paragraph 8 , or ( b ) examine under paragraph 9 . ( 2 ) a relevant senior officer may authorise a constable to extract information accessible by mean of one or more online account which be access by mean of the device before the search or examination begin . ( 3 ) the power confer by virtue of sub - paragraph ( 2 ) may be exercise only to extract information which be accessible by mean of the online account at the time the search or examination begin . ( 4 ) an authorisation under sub - paragraph ( 2 ) also confer power to — ( a ) access an online account of the kind mention in that sub - paragraph , and ( b ) examine any information accessible by mean of such an account . ( 5 ) the power confer by virtue of sub - paragraph ( 4 ) ( b ) may be exercise only for the purpose of determine whether information may be extract under the authorisation . ( 6 ) the power confer by virtue of this paragraph be exercisable only for so long as the electronic device continue to be detain under paragraph 11 . ( 7 ) a constable who be give an authorisation under sub - paragraph ( 2 ) may arrange for another person to exercise the power confer by the authorisation on their behalf . ( 8 ) in this paragraph — " online account " mean an account by mean of which information hold on a service provide by mean of the internet be make accessible ; " relevant senior officer " , in relation to a constable who be give an authorisation under sub - paragraph ( 2 ) , mean another constable who — ( a ) be of a high rank than the constable who be give the authorisation , and ( b ) have not be directly involve in the exercise of any power under this part of this schedule to take the electronic device or to question a person from whom the device be take . ( 9 ) reference in this paragraph and paragraph 11c to the extraction of information include its reproduction in any form . 11c any information which have be extract by virtue of paragraph 11b may be retain by a constable — ( a ) for so long as be necessary for the purpose of determine whether a person fall within section 40 ( 1 ) ( b ) , ( b ) while the constable believe that it may be need for use as evidence in criminal proceeding , or ( c ) while the constable believe that it may be need in connection with a decision by the Secretary of State whether to make a deportation order under the Immigration Act 1971 . ' ( 2 ) in Schedule 3 to the Counter - Terrorism and Border Security Act 2019 ( border security ) , after paragraph 22 insert — ' extraction of online information 22a ( 1 ) this paragraph apply where an electronic device be retain under paragraph 11 after have be — ( a ) search or find on a search under paragraph 8 , or ( b ) examine under paragraph 9 . ( 2 ) a relevant senior officer may authorise a constable to extract information accessible by mean of one or more online account which be access by mean of the device before the search or examination begin . ( 3 ) the power confer by virtue of sub - paragraph ( 2 ) may be exercise only to extract information which be accessible by mean of the online account at the time the search or examination begin . ( 4 ) an authorisation under sub - paragraph ( 2 ) also confer power to — ( a ) access an online account of the kind mention in that sub - paragraph , and ( b ) examine any information accessible by mean of such an account . ( 5 ) the power confer by virtue of sub - paragraph ( 4 ) ( b ) may be exercise only for the purpose of determine whether information may be extract under the authorisation . ( 6 ) the power confer by virtue of this paragraph be exercisable only for so long as the electronic device continue to be retain under paragraph 11 . ( 7 ) a constable who be give an authorisation under sub - paragraph ( 2 ) may arrange for another person to exercise the power confer by the authorisation on their behalf . ( 8 ) where a constable make such an arrangement , the person exercise those power on their behalf be to be treat as an examine officer for the purpose of Part 4 of this Schedule . ( 9 ) in this paragraph — " online account " mean an account by mean of which information hold on a service provide by mean of the internet be make accessible ; " relevant senior officer " , in relation to a constable who be give an authorisation under sub - paragraph ( 2 ) , mean another constable who — ( a ) be of a high rank than the constable who be give the authorisation , and ( b ) have not be directly involve in the exercise of any power under this part of this schedule to take the electronic device or to question a person from whom the device be take . ( 10 ) reference in this paragraph and paragraph 22B to the extraction of information include its reproduction in any form . 22b any information which have be extract by virtue of paragraph 22a may be retain by a constable — ( a ) for so long as it be necessary for the purpose of determine whether a person be or have be engage in hostile activity , ( b ) while the constable believe that it may be need for use as evidence in criminal proceeding , ( c ) while the constable believe that it may be need in connection with a decision by the Secretary of State whether to make a deportation order under the Immigration Act 1971 , ( d ) while the constable believe it necessary to retain the information — ( i ) in the interest of national security , ( ii ) in the interest of the economic well - being of the United Kingdom so far as those interest be also relevant to the interest of national security , or ( iii ) for the purpose of prevent or detect an act of serious crime , or ( e ) while the constable believe it necessary to retain the information to prevent death or significant injury . 22c ( 1 ) paragraph 18 to 22 apply to information consist of or include confidential material that be retain by virtue of paragraph 22B ( d ) or ( e ) as they apply to a copy consist of or include confidential material that be retain by virtue of paragraph 17 ( 3 ) ( d ) or ( e ) , but with the following modification . ( 2 ) paragraph 18 ( 7 ) be to be read as if the reference to paragraph 17 ( 3 ) ( b ) or ( c ) be a reference to paragraph 22B ( b ) or ( c ) . ( 3 ) paragraph 19 be to be read as if — ( a ) the reference in sub - paragraph ( 3 ) ( c ) and ( 6 ) to the person from whom the article be take from which the copy be make , and ( b ) the reference in sub - paragraph ( 7 ) to the person from whom an article be take from which a copy be make , be reference to the person from whom the device mention in paragraph 22a ( 1 ) be take . ( 4 ) paragraph 20 ( 4 ) be to be read as if the reference to a person from whom the article be take from which the copy be make be a reference to the person from whom the device mention in paragraph 22a ( 1 ) be take . ( 5 ) paragraph 21 ( 7 ) be to be read as if the reference to the person from whom an article be take from which the copy be make be a reference to the person from whom the device mention in paragraph 22a ( 1 ) be take . ( 6 ) paragraph 22 be to be read as if — ( a ) the reference in sub - paragraph ( 7 ) to paragraph 17 ( 3 ) ( b ) or ( c ) be a reference to paragraph 22B ( b ) or ( c ) ; ( b ) the reference in sub - paragraph ( 9 ) to the person from whom the article be take from which the copy be make be a reference to the person from whom the device mention in paragraph 22a ( 1 ) be take . ' " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this new clause confer power on examine officer to extract information accessible by mean of an online account in circumstance where the account have be access by mean of an electronic device retain by an examine officer under Schedule 7 to the Terrorism Act 2000 or Schedule 3 to the Counter - terrorism and Border Security Act 2019 . bring up , and add to the Bill . New clause 69 - extraction of online information follow agreement etc " Schedule ( amendment to chapter 3 of Part 2 of the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 ) amend chapter 3 of Part 2 of the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 ( extraction of information from electronic device ) in relation to the extraction of information accessible by mean of online account . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this new clause introduce NS1 . bring up , and add to the Bill . New clause 70 - lawful interception of communication " ( 1 ) the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 48 insert — ' 48a Interception for access online account ( 1 ) the interception of a relevant communication transmit by mean of a telecommunications system be authorise by this subsection if — ( a ) the interception be carry out by or on behalf of a person who have be authorise under a relevant power to access one or more online account , and ( b ) the interception be carry out for the purpose of enable the person to access those online account . ( 2 ) a " relevant communication " mean a communication transmit as part of a process use to — ( a ) establish or verify the identity of a person , or ( b ) establish or verify that a person be a natural person . ( 3 ) a " relevant power " mean a power confer by — ( a ) paragraph 11b of Schedule 7 to the Terrorism Act 2000 ; ( b ) paragraph 22a of Schedule 3 to the Counter - Terrorism and Border Security Act 2019 ; ( c ) section 37 ( 1A ) of the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 by virtue of section 40 of that Act ; ( d ) section 41 ( 1A ) of that Act ; ( e ) section ( extraction of online information follow seizure of electronic device ) of the Crime and Policing Act 2025 . ( 4 ) the interception of a communication transmit by mean of a telecommunications system be authorise by this section if it be incidental to , or be reasonably carry out in connection with , conduct that be authorise by virtue of subsection ( 1 ) . ( 5 ) in this section " online account " mean an account by mean of which information hold on a service provide by mean of the internet be make accessible . ' ( 3 ) in section 229 ( main oversight function ) , in subsection ( 4 ) ( e ) ( i ) , after ' 47 ' insert ' , 48a ' . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this new clause authorise the interception of communication carry out by , or on a behalf of , person who be authorise to access online account under certain power where the interception be carry out for the purpose of enable they to access those account . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 71 - law enforcement employer may not employ etc bar person " ( 1 ) before employ or appoint any person , a law enforcement employer must check each bar list to ascertain whether the propose employee or propose appointee be a barred person . ( 2 ) a law enforcement employer may not employ a barred person or otherwise appoint a barred person to any position . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section a person who be to be second to work for a law enforcement employer , and who will not be employ by that person , be to be regard as be appoint by that person . ( 4 ) before designate a person as a community support volunteer or a police support volunteer under section 38 of the Police Reform Act 2002 , a chief officer of police , and the Chief Constable of the British Transport Police Force , must check each bar list to ascertain whether the person be a barred person . ( 5 ) a chief officer of police , and the Chief Constable of the British Transport Police Force , may not designate a barred person as a community support volunteer or a police support volunteer under section 38 of the Police Reform Act 2002 . ( 6 ) a law enforcement employer may not enter into a contract for the provision of service if the term of the contract would permit a barred person to be involve in the exercise of law enforcement function . ( 7 ) a local policing body may not enter into a contract for the provision of service to a chief officer of police if the term of the contract would permit a barred person to be involve in the exercise of law enforcement function . ( 8 ) in this section ' bar list ' mean — ( a ) the police barred list maintain under Part 4A of the Police Act 1996 ; ( b ) the British Transport Police bar list ; ( c ) the Civil Nuclear Constabulary barred list ; ( d ) the Ministry of Defence Police bar list ; ( e ) the National Crime Agency barred list ; ( f ) the scottish police barred list maintain under section 59a of the Police and Fire Reform ( Scotland ) Act 2012 ( asp 8 ) . ( 9 ) in this section ' barred person ' mean a person who be include in a bar list . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this new clause , together with NC72 to NC74 , will restrict employment , appointment and contract in relation to people on a number of bar list . it replace and extend exist provision in section 88c to 88e of the Police Act 1996 , which apply to a more limited list of law enforcement employer and the police barred list only . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 72 - mean of " law enforcement employer " " ( 1 ) in section ( Law enforcement employer may not employ etc bar person ) ' law enforcement employer ' mean — ( a ) a chief officer of police ; ( b ) the Director General of the National Crime Agency ; ( c ) the Chief Constable of the British Transport Police Force ; ( d ) the British Transport Police Authority ; ( e ) the Civil Nuclear Police Authority ; ( f ) a local policing body ; ( g ) the chief inspector of constabulary appoint under section 54 of the Police Act 1996 ; ( h ) the Independent Office for Police Conduct ; ( i ) the Secretary of State , when exercise function relate to the Ministry of Defence Police ; ( j ) the College of Policing ; ( k ) a person specify in regulation make by the Secretary of State . ( 2 ) a person may be specify in regulation under subsection ( 1 ) ( k ) only if the person have law enforcement function . ( 3 ) if a person have both law enforcement function and other function , the person may be specify only — ( a ) in relation to the exercise of the person ' s law enforcement function , or ( b ) in relation to the exercise of such of those law enforcement function as be of a description specify in the regulation . ( 4 ) subsection ( 1 ) ( i ) do not preclude the Secretary of State be specify in relation to the exercise of law enforcement function of a description not within that subsection . ( 5 ) in this section ' law enforcement function ' mean function of a public nature that relate to policing or law enforcement . ( 6 ) regulation under this section may not contain provision which would be within the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament , if contain in an Act of that Parliament . ( 7 ) regulation under this section may not contain provision which — ( a ) would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly , if it be contain in an Act of that Assembly , and ( b ) would not , if it be contain in a Bill in the Northern Ireland Assembly , result in the Bill require the consent of the Secretary of State under section 8 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998 . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) see NC71 . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 73 - application of section ( Law enforcement employer may not employ etc bar person ) to Secretary of State " ( 1 ) the duty in section ( Law enforcement employer may not employ etc bar person ) ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) apply in relation to the Secretary of State only to the extent that the propose employee or propose appointee will be involve in the exercise of the function of the Ministry of Defence Police . ( 2 ) the additional duty in subsection ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) apply where the Secretary of State be propose to arrange for an exist employee or exist appointee to become involved in the exercise of the function of the Ministry of Defence Police ( not have previously be so involved ) . ( 3 ) before make the arrangement , the Secretary of State must check each bar list to ascertain whether the exist employee or exist appointee be a barred person . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State may not arrange for an exist employee or exist appointee who be a barred person to become involved in the exercise of the function of the Ministry of Defence Police . ( 5 ) for the purpose of this section , a person who be second to work for the Secretary of State be to be regard as an exist appointee of the Secretary of State ( if not an exist employee ) . ( 6 ) in this section reference to the Secretary of State be to be read in accordance with section ( meaning of ' law enforcement employer ' ) ( 1 ) ( i ) . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) see NC71 . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 74 - application of section ( Law enforcement employer may not employ etc bar person ) to specify law enforcement employer " ( 1 ) the duty in section ( Law enforcement employer may not employ etc bar person ) ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) apply in relation to a specified law enforcement employer only to the extent that the propose employee or propose appointee will be involve in the exercise of specify law enforcement function . ( 2 ) the additional duty in subsection ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) apply where a specified law enforcement employer be propose to arrange for an exist employee or exist appointee to become involved in the exercise of specify law enforcement function ( not have previously be so involved ) . ( 3 ) before make the arrangement , the specify law enforcement employer must check each bar list to ascertain whether the exist employee or exist appointee be a barred person . ( 4 ) the specified law enforcement employer may not arrange for an exist employee or exist appointee who be a barred person to become involved in the exercise of specify law enforcement function . ( 5 ) for the purpose of this section , a person who be second to work for a specify law enforcement employer be to be regard as an exist appointee of that person ( if not an exist employee ) . ( 6 ) in relation to a specified law enforcement employer , section ( Law enforcement employer not to employ etc bar person ) ( 6 ) apply as if the reference to law enforcement function be to specify law enforcement function . ( 7 ) in this section — ' specify law enforcement employer ' mean a person who be specify as a law enforcement employer in regulation under section ( meaning of ' law enforcement employer ' ) ( 1 ) ( k ) ; ' specify law enforcement function ' mean the law enforcement function in relation to the exercise of which the person be specify . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) see NC71 . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 75 - duty of law enforcement employer to check advisory list " ( 1 ) before employ or appoint any person , a law enforcement employer must check each advisory list to ascertain whether the propose employee or propose appointee be include in an advisory list . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this paragraph a person who be to be second to work for a law enforcement employer , and who will not be employ by that person , be to be regard as be appoint by that person . ( 3 ) before designate a person as a community support volunteer or a police support volunteer under section 38 of the Police Reform Act 2002 , a chief officer of police , and the Chief Constable of the British Transport Police Force , must check each advisory list to ascertain whether the person be include in a advisory list . ( 4 ) the duty in subsection ( 1 ) apply to the Secretary of State only to the extent that the propose employee or propose appointee will be involve in the exercise of the function of the Ministry of Defence Police . ( 5 ) in subsection ( 4 ) reference to the Secretary of State be to be read in accordance with section ( meaning of ' law enforcement employer ' ) ( 1 ) ( i ) . ( 6 ) in this section ' advisory list ' mean — ( a ) the police advisory list maintain under Part 4A of the Police Act 1996 ; ( b ) the British Transport Police advisory list ; ( c ) the Civil Nuclear Constabulary advisory list ; ( d ) the Ministry of Defence Police advisory list ; ( e ) the National Crime Agency advisory list ; ( f ) the scottish police advisory list maintain under section 59a of the Police and Fire Reform ( Scotland ) Act 2012 ( asp 8 ) . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this new clause , together with NC76 , require law enforcement employer to check a number of advisory list before employ or appoint a person . it replace and extend exist provision in section 88 k of the Police Act 1996 , which apply to a more limited list of law enforcement employer and the police advisory list only . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 76 - application of section ( Duty of law enforcement employer to check advisory list ) to specify law enforcement employer " ( 1 ) the duty in section ( Duty of law enforcement employer to check advisory list ) ( 1 ) apply to a specify law enforcement employer only to the extent that the propose employee or propose appointee will be involve in the exercise of specify law enforcement function . ( 2 ) the additional duty in subsection ( 3 ) apply where a specified law enforcement employer be propose to arrange for an exist employee or exist appointee to become involved in the exercise of specify law enforcement function ( not have previously be so involved ) . ( 3 ) before make the arrangement , the specify law enforcement employer must check each advisory list to ascertain whether the exist employee or exist appointee be include in an advisory list . ( 4 ) for the purpose of this section a person who be second to work for a specified person be to be regard as an exist appointee of that person ( if not an exist employee of that person ) . ( 5 ) in this section — ' specify law enforcement employer ' mean a person who be specify as a law enforcement employer in regulation under section ( meaning of ' law enforcement employer ' ) ( 1 ) ( k ) ; ' specify law enforcement function ' mean the law enforcement function in relation to the exercise of which the person be specify . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) see NC75 . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 77 - Interpretation of section ( law enforcement employer may not employ etc bar person ) to ( application of section ( Duty of law enforcement employer to check advisory list ) to specify law enforcement employer ) " in section ( law enforcement employer may not employ etc bar person ) to ( application of section ( Duty of law enforcement employer to check advisory list ) to specify law enforcement employer ) — ' advisory list ' have the meaning give by section ( Duty of law enforcement employer to check advisory list ) ( 6 ) ; ' bar list ' have the meaning give by section ( Law enforcement employer may not employ etc bar person ) ( 8 ) ; ' bar person ' have the meaning give by section ( Law enforcement employer may not employ etc bar person ) ( 9 ) ; ' british Transport Police advisory list ' mean the advisory list maintain by the British Transport Police Authority under Part 2 of schedule ( special police force : bar person list and advisory list ) ; ' British Transport Police bar list ' mean the bar person list maintain by the British Transport Police Authority under Part 1 of schedule ( special police force : bar person list and advisory list ) ; ' chief officer of police ' have the same meaning as in the Police Act 1996 ( see section 101 ( 1 ) of that Act ) ; ' civil Nuclear Constabulary advisory list ' mean the advisory list maintain by the Civil Nuclear Police Authority under Part 2 of schedule ( special police force : bar person list and advisory list ) ; ' Civil Nuclear Constabulary bar list ' mean the bar person list maintain by the Civil Nuclear Police Authority under Part 1 of schedule ( special police force : bar person list and advisory list ) ; ' law enforcement function ' have the meaning give by section ( meaning of law enforcement employer ) ( 5 ) ; ' Ministry of Defence Police advisory list ' mean the advisory list maintain by the Secretary of State under Part 2 of schedule ( special police force : bar person list and advisory list ) ; ' Ministry of Defence Police bar list ' mean the bar person list maintain by the Secretary of State under Part 1 of schedule ( special police force : bar person list and advisory list ) ; ' National Crime Agency advisory list ' mean the advisory list maintain by the Director General of the National Crime Agency under Part 2 of schedule ( special police force : bar person list and advisory list ) ; ' National Crime Agency bar list ' mean the bar person list maintain by the Director General of the National Crime Agency under Part 1 of schedule ( special police force : bar person list and advisory list . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this new clause define term use in NC71 to NC76 . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 78 - special police force : bar person list and advisory list " Schedule ( special police force : bar person list and advisory list ) make provision for bar person list and advisory list to be maintain by — ( a ) the British Transport Police Authority , ( b ) the Civil Nuclear Police Authority , ( c ) the Director General of the National Crime Agency , and ( d ) the Secretary of State . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this New Clause introduce NS3 . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 79 - consequential amendment " ( 1 ) in the Police Act 1996 omit — ( a ) section 88c to 88e ( effect of inclusion in police bar list ) ; ( b ) section 88 k ( effect of inclusion in police advisory list ) . ( 2 ) the Police Reform and Social Responsibility Act 2011 be amend as follow . ( 3 ) in section 42 ( 3aa ) ( person on police bar list not eligible for appointment as Commissioner of Police of the Metropolis ) — ( a ) the word from ' the police ' to the end become paragraph ( a ) ; ( b ) after that paragraph insert — ' ( b ) the British Transport Police bar list ( within the meaning of section ( Interpretation of section ( law enforcement employer may not employ etc bar person ) to ( application of section ( Duty of law enforcement employer to check advisory list ) to specify law enforcement employer ) ) of the Crime and Policing Act 2025 ; ( c ) the Civil Nuclear Constabulary bar list ( within the meaning of that section ) ; ( d ) the Ministry of Defence Police bar list ( within the meaning of that section ) ; ( e ) the National Crime Agency bar list ( within the meaning of that section ) ; ( f ) the scottish police barred list maintain under section 59a of the Police and Fire Reform ( Scotland ) Act 2012 ( asp 8 ) . ' ( 4 ) in section 42 ( 3b ) ( person on police bar list not eligible for appointment as Deputy Commissioner of Police of the Metropolis ) — ( a ) the word from ' the police ' to the end become paragraph ( a ) ; ( b ) after that paragraph insert — ' ( b ) the British Transport Police bar list ( within the meaning of section ( Interpretation of section ( law enforcement employer may not employ etc bar person ) to ( application of section ( Duty of law enforcement employer to check advisory list ) to specify law enforcement employer ) ) of the Crime and Policing Act 2025 ; ( c ) the Civil Nuclear Constabulary bar list ( within the meaning of that section ) ; ( d ) the Ministry of Defence Police bar list ( within the meaning of that section ) ; ( e ) the National Crime Agency bar list ( within the meaning of that section ) ; ( f ) the scottish police barred list maintain under section 59a of the Police and Fire Reform ( Scotland ) Act 2012 ( asp 8 ) . ' " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this new clause repeal provision in the Police Act 1996 that be supersede by NC71 to NC76 , and provide that a person on one of the new list , or the scottish police barred list , can not be appoint as Metropolitan Police Commissioner or Deputy Commissioner . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 80 - power to give direction to critical police undertaking " in the Police Act 1996 , after section 40c insert — ' 40d power to give direction to critical police undertaking ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may give a notice under this section to a critical police undertaking . ( 2 ) an undertaking be a " critical police undertaking " if — ( a ) it provide facility or service to two or more police force , ( b ) the provision of facility or service to police force be its principal business activity , ( c ) it be wholly or partly fund by grant from the Secretary of State , and ( d ) the Secretary of State consider that the facility or service it provide to police force be calculate to promote the efficiency and effectiveness of the police . ( 3 ) a critical police undertaking to which a notice be give under this section must comply with any direction give to it under this section by the Secretary of State . ( 4 ) a direction under this section be a direction require the critical police undertaking to which it be give to take , or not to take , action specify in the direction . ( 5 ) the action that a direction may require a critical police undertaking to take include ( for example ) — ( a ) enter into agreement , include contract of employment ; ( b ) appoint officer ; ( c ) exercise a function of management in a particular way ; ( d ) provide information to the Secretary of State . ( 6 ) the Secretary of State may give a notice or direction under this section only if the Secretary of State consider that give the notice or direction be calculate to promote the efficiency and effectiveness of the police . ( 7 ) before give a notice or direction under this section the Secretary of State must consult the critical police undertaking to which the notice or direction be to be give . ( 8 ) a notice or direction under this section must be give in writing . ( 9 ) the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament , and publish , a notice or direction give under this section . ( 10 ) the Secretary of State may vary or revoke a notice or direction give under this section by give a further notice or direction under this section . ( 11 ) a requirement to provide information as mention in subsection ( 5 ) ( d ) do not authorise or require a disclosure of information in contravention of the data protection legislation within the meaning of the Data Protection Act 2018 ( but , in determine whether a disclosure would do so , the power to impose requirement by virtue of this section be to be take into account ) . ( 12 ) in this section " undertaking " have the meaning give by section 1161 ( 1 ) of the Companies Act 2006 . ' " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 81 - Ports and border security : retention and copying of article " ( 1 ) schedule 7 to the Terrorism Act 2000 ( port and border control ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in paragraph 11 — ( a ) in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) ( a ) , for ' a period not exceed ' substitute ' the period of ' ; ( b ) after sub - paragraph ( 2 ) insert — ' ( 3 ) where an article be detain by virtue of paragraph ( a ) of sub - paragraph ( 2 ) , a senior officer may extend the period mention in that paragraph by up to 7 day . ( 4 ) a senior officer may only exercise the power confer by sub - paragraph ( 3 ) if the senior officer have not be directly involve in the exercise of any power under this part of this schedule to take the article or to question a person from whom the article be take . ( 5 ) in sub - paragraph ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) " senior officer " mean — ( a ) where the examine officer who detain the article be a constable , a constable of a high rank than the examine officer , ( b ) where the examine officer who detain the article be an immigration officer , an immigration officer of a high grade than the examine officer , and ( c ) where the examine officer who detain the article be a custom officer , a custom officer of a high grade than the examine officer . ' ( 3 ) in paragraph 11a , after sub - paragraph ( 3 ) insert — ' ( 4 ) an examine officer may authorise another person to exercise the power confer by sub - paragraph ( 2 ) on their behalf . ' ( 4 ) schedule 3 to the Counter - Terrorism and Border Security Act 2019 ( border security ) be amend as follow . ( 5 ) in paragraph 11 — ( a ) in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) ( a ) , for ' a period not exceed ' substitute ' the period of ' ; ( b ) after sub - paragraph ( 2 ) insert — ' ( 3 ) where an article be retain by virtue of paragraph ( a ) of sub - paragraph ( 2 ) , a senior officer may extend the period mention in that paragraph by up to 7 day . ( 4 ) a senior officer may exercise the power confer by sub - paragraph ( 3 ) only if the senior officer have not be directly involve in the exercise of any power under this part of this schedule to take the article or to question a person from whom the article be take . ( 5 ) in sub - paragraph ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) " senior officer " mean — ( a ) where the examine officer who retain the article be a constable , a constable of a high rank than the examine officer , ( b ) where the examine officer who retain the article be an immigration officer , an immigration officer of a high grade than the examine officer , and ( c ) where the examine officer who retain the article be a custom officer , a custom officer of a high grade than the examine officer . ' ( 6 ) in paragraph 12 ( 6 ) , for ' the person from whom it be take ' substitute ' — ( a ) the person from whom it be take , or ( b ) where the Commissioner consider that there be another person to whom it would be more appropriate to return the article , that person . ' ( 7 ) in paragraph 16 ( 6 ) ( b ) , for ' the person from whom it be take , ' substitute ' — ( i ) the person from whom it be take , or ( ii ) where the Commissioner consider that there be another person to whom it would be more appropriate to return the article , that person , ' ; ( 8 ) in paragraph 17 , after sub - paragraph ( 3 ) insert — ' ( 4 ) an examine officer may authorise another person to exercise the power confer by sub - paragraph ( 2 ) on their behalf . ( 5 ) a person authorise under sub - paragraph ( 4 ) be to be treat as an examine officer for the purpose of Part 4 of this Schedule . ' ( 9 ) in paragraph 19 ( 3 ) ( a ) , omit ' where the examine officer be a constable , ' . ( 10 ) in paragraph 20 ( 8 ) , in the definition of ' senior officer ' — ( a ) in paragraph ( a ) , omit ' where the examine officer be a constable , ' ; ( b ) omit paragraph ( b ) and ( c ) . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this new clause amend Schedule 7 to the Terrorism Act 2000 and Schedule 3 to the Counter - terrorism and Border Security Act 2019 to make change to the provision deal with the retention and copying of article under those schedule . those change include provision for the extension of the period during which article may be retain by an examine officer for the purpose of examination . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 82 - Extradition : case where a person have be convict " ( 1 ) the Extradition Act 2003 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 20 ( case where person have be convict : category 1 territory ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 5 ) , for the word from ' the person ' to the end substitute ' any of the following apply — ( a ) the person would be entitle to a retrial or ( on appeal ) to a review amount to a retrial ; ( b ) the person would be so entitled unless a court in the territory concern be to decide that they deliberately absent themselves from their trial ; ( c ) the person be entitle as mention in paragraph ( a ) or ( b ) but expressly waive that entitlement ; ( d ) have be inform that they be entitle as mention in paragraph ( a ) or ( b ) , the person fail to exercise that entitlement before the end of the period permit for exercise it . ' ; ( b ) after subsection ( 7 ) insert — ' ( 7a ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) , a person convict at a trial at which they be legally represent ( but not present in person ) be to be treat as have be convict in their presence . ' ; ( c ) in subsection ( 8 ) , in the word before paragraph ( a ) — ( i ) after ' constitute ' insert ' ( or would have constitute ) ' ; ( ii ) after ' have ' insert ' ( or would have have ) ' . ( 3 ) in section 85 ( case where person have be convict : category 2 territory ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 5 ) , for the word from ' the person ' to the end substitute ' any of the following apply — ( a ) the person would be entitle to a retrial or ( on appeal ) to a review amount to a retrial ; ( b ) the person would be so entitled unless a court in the territory concern be to decide that they deliberately absent themselves from their trial ; ( c ) the person be entitle as mention in paragraph ( a ) or ( b ) but expressly waive that entitlement ; ( d ) have be inform that they be entitle as mention in paragraph ( a ) or ( b ) , the person fail to exercise that entitlement before the end of the period permit for exercise it . ' ; ( b ) after subsection ( 7 ) insert — ' ( 7a ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) , a person convict at a trial at which they be legally represent ( but not present in person ) be to be treat as have be convict in their presence . ' ; ( c ) in subsection ( 8 ) , in the word before paragraph ( a ) — ( i ) after ' constitute ' insert ' ( or would have constitute ) ' ; ( ii ) after ' have ' insert ' ( or would have have ) ' . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this new clause amend the question a judge must decide in order to determine whether a person allege to be unlawfully at large follow the person ' s conviction in a category 1 territory or a category 2 territory may be extradite . bring up , and add to the Bill . new Schedule 1 - amendment to chapter 3 of part 2 of the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 " 1 chapter 3 of Part 2 of the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 ( extraction of information from electronic device ) be amend as follow . 2 in the chapter heading — ( a ) for " information from " substitute " information : " ; ( b ) after " device " insert " and online account " . 3 ( 1 ) section 37 ( extraction of information from electronic device : investigation of crime etc ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in the heading , omit " from electronic device " . ( 3 ) after subsection ( 1 ) insert — " ( 1A ) an authorised person may extract information accessible by mean of an online account if — ( a ) a user of the account have voluntarily provide access to the account to an authorised person , and ( b ) that user have agree to the extraction by an authorised person of information accessible by mean of the account . ( 1b ) the power in subsection ( 1A ) ( b ) may be exercise only in relation to information which be or be accessible by mean of the online account at such time or time as have be agree by the user of the account . " ( 4 ) in subsection ( 2 ) — ( a ) for " power " substitute " power " ; ( b ) after " ( 1 ) " insert " and ( 1A ) " . ( 5 ) in subsection ( 5 ) — ( a ) after " ( 1 ) " insert " or ( 1A ) " ; ( b ) after " electronic device " ( in both place ) insert " , or accessible by mean of the online account , " . ( 6 ) in subsection ( 6 ) — ( a ) in the word before paragraph ( a ) , after " the power " insert " in subsection ( 1 ) or ( 1A ) " ; ( b ) in paragraph ( b ) , after " ( 1 ) " insert " or ( 1A ) " . ( 7 ) in subsection ( 7 ) , after " ( 1 ) " insert " or ( 1A ) " . ( 8 ) in subsection ( 8 ) , after " ( 1 ) " insert " or ( 1A ) " . ( 9 ) in subsection ( 9 ) , after " the power " insert " in subsection ( 1 ) or ( 1A ) " . ( 10 ) in subsection ( 10 ) — ( a ) in paragraph ( a ) , for the word from " information " to the end substitute " information — ( i ) likely to be store on the device , or ( ii ) likely to be accessible by mean of the online account , and " ; ( b ) in paragraph ( b ) ( ii ) , after " ( 1 ) " insert " or ( 1A ) " . ( 11 ) in subsection ( 11 ) , after " ( 1 ) " insert " or ( 1A ) " . ( 12 ) in subsection ( 13 ) — ( a ) after the definition of " information " insert — " " online account " mean an account by mean of which information hold on a service provide by mean of the internet be make accessible ; " ; ( b ) for the definition of " user " substitute — " " user " — ( a ) in relation to an electronic device , mean a person who ordinarily use the device ; ( b ) in relation to an online account , mean a person who ordinarily use the account . " 4 ( 1 ) section 38 ( application of section 37 to child and adult without capacity ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after subsection ( 2 ) insert — " ( 2A ) a child be not to be treat for the purpose of section 37 ( 1A ) as be capable of — ( a ) voluntarily provide access to an online account for those purpose , or ( b ) agree for those purpose to the extraction by an authorised person of information accessible by mean of the online account . ( 2B ) if a child be a user of an online account , a person who be not a user of the account but be list in subsection ( 3 ) may — ( a ) voluntarily provide access to the online account to an authorised person for the purpose of section 37 ( 1A ) , and ( b ) agree for those purpose to the extraction by an authorised person of information accessible by mean of the online account . " ( 3 ) in subsection ( 3 ) , for " subsection ( 2 ) " substitute " subsection ( 2 ) and ( 2b ) " . ( 4 ) in subsection ( 4 ) , after " ( 2 ) , " insert " or the power under section 37 ( 1A ) by virtue of subsection ( 2B ) , " . ( 5 ) in subsection ( 5 ) — ( a ) after " 37 ( 1 ) " insert " or ( 1A ) " ; ( b ) after " ( 2 ) " insert " or ( 2b ) " . ( 6 ) after subsection ( 7 ) insert — " ( 7a ) an adult without capacity be not to be treat for the purpose of section 37 ( 1A ) as be capable of — ( a ) voluntarily provide access to an online account for those purpose , or ( b ) agree for those purpose to the extraction by an authorised person of information accessible by mean of the online account . ( 7b ) if a user of an online account be an adult without capacity , a person who be not a user of the online account but be list in subsection ( 8 ) may — ( a ) voluntarily provide access to the online account to an authorised person for the purpose of section 37 ( 1A ) , and ( b ) agree for those purpose to the extraction by an authorised person of information accessible by mean of the online account . " ( 7 ) in subsection ( 8 ) — ( a ) in the word before paragraph ( a ) , for " subsection ( 7 ) " substitute " subsection ( 7 ) and ( 7b ) " ; ( b ) after " and ( b ) " ( in each place ) insert " , or for the purpose of subsection ( 7b ) ( a ) and ( b ) , " . ( 8 ) in subsection ( 9 ) , for the word from " prevent " to the end substitute " prevent — ( a ) any other user of an electronic device who be not a child or an adult without capacity from — ( i ) voluntarily provide the device to an authorised person for the purpose of section 37 ( 1 ) , or ( ii ) agree for those purpose to the extraction of information from the device by an authorised person ; ( b ) any other user of an online account who be not a child or an adult without capacity from — ( i ) voluntarily provide access to the online account to an authorised person for the purpose of section 37 ( 1A ) , or ( ii ) agree for those purpose to the extraction by an authorised person of information accessible by mean of the online account . " ( 9 ) in subsection ( 10 ) , after " and ( b ) " ( in each place ) insert " or ( 1A ) ( a ) and ( b ) " ; ( 10 ) in subsection ( 11 ) , in the definition of " relevant authorise person " , for the word from " person " " to the end substitute " person " — ( a ) in relation to the extraction of information from an electronic device for a particular purpose , mean an authorised person who may extract the information from the device for that purpose ; ( b ) in relation to the extraction of information accessible by mean of an online account for a particular purpose , mean an authorised person who may extract the information accessible by mean of the online account for that purpose ; " 5 ( 1 ) section 39 ( requirement for voluntary provision and agreement ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after subsection ( 1 ) insert — " ( 1A ) a person ( " p " ) be to be treat for the purpose of section 37 or 38 as have — ( a ) voluntarily provide access to an online account to an authorised person , and ( b ) agree to the extraction by an authorised person of information accessible by mean of the online account , only if the requirement of this section have be meet . " ( 3 ) in subsection ( 2 ) , for the word from " to provide " to the end substitute " to — ( a ) provide the device or agree to the extraction of information from it , or ( b ) provide access to the online account or agree to the extraction of information accessible by mean of it . " ( 4 ) in subsection ( 3 ) — ( a ) in paragraph ( d ) , for the word from " may " to the end substitute " may — ( i ) refuse to provide the device or agree to the extraction of information from it , or ( ii ) refuse to provide access to the online account or agree to the extraction of information accessible by mean of it , and " ; ( b ) in paragraph ( e ) , for the word from " p refuse " to the end substitute " p — ( i ) refuse to provide the device or agree to the extraction of information from it , or ( ii ) refuse to provide access to the online account or agree to the extraction of information accessible by mean of it . " ( 5 ) in subsection ( 4 ) , for the word from " that " to the end substitute " that — ( a ) p have — ( i ) voluntarily provide the device to an authorised person , and ( ii ) agree to the extraction of information from the device by an authorised person , or ( b ) p have — ( i ) voluntarily provide access to the online account to an authorised person , and ( ii ) agree to the extraction by the authorised person of information accessible by mean of the online account . " 6 ( 1 ) section 40 ( application of section 37 where user have die etc ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after subsection ( 1 ) insert — " ( 1A ) if any of condition A to C be meet , an authorised person may exercise the power in section 37 ( 1A ) to extract information accessible by mean of an online account even though — ( a ) access have not be voluntarily provide to an authorised person by a user of the account , or ( b ) no user of the account have agree to the extraction by an authorised person of information accessible by mean of the account . " ( 3 ) in subsection ( 2 ) — ( a ) in paragraph ( a ) , for " , and " substitute " and the person be a user of the device immediately before their death , or " ; ( b ) for paragraph ( b ) substitute — " ( b ) a person who be a user of the online account have die and the person be a user of the online account before their death . " ( 4 ) in subsection ( 3 ) ( a ) , after " device " insert " or online account " . ( 5 ) in subsection ( 4 ) — ( a ) in paragraph ( a ) , after " device " insert " or online account " ; ( b ) in paragraph ( b ) , for the word from " be " to the end substitute " be — ( i ) a user of the device immediately before they go missing , or ( ii ) a user of the online account before they go missing , and " . ( 6 ) in subsection ( 5 ) , after " ( 1 ) " insert " or ( 1A ) " . 7 ( 1 ) section 41 ( extraction of information from electronic device : investigation of death ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in the heading , omit " from electronic device " . ( 3 ) after subsection ( 1 ) insert — " ( 1A ) an authorised person may extract information accessible by mean of an online account if — ( a ) a person who be a user of the online account have die , and ( b ) the person be a user of the account before their death . " ( 4 ) in subsection ( 2 ) — ( a ) for " power " substitute " power " ; ( b ) after " ( 1 ) " insert " and ( 1A ) " . ( 5 ) in subsection ( 3 ) — ( a ) for " the power " substitute " the power " ; ( b ) after " ( 1 ) " insert " and ( 1A ) " ; ( c ) for " that power " substitute " those power " . ( 6 ) in subsection ( 4 ) — ( a ) after " ( 1 ) " insert " or ( 1A ) " ; ( b ) in paragraph ( a ) , after " device " insert " , or accessible by mean of the online account , " . ( 7 ) in subsection ( 5 ) , after " the power " insert " in subsection ( 1 ) or ( 1A ) " . ( 8 ) in subsection ( 7 ) , after " ( 1 ) " insert " or ( 1A ) " . ( 9 ) in subsection ( 8 ) , after " the power " insert " in subsection ( 1 ) or ( 1A ) " . ( 10 ) in subsection ( 9 ) ( a ) , for the word from " information " to the end substitute " information — " ( i ) likely to be store on the device , or ( ii ) likely to be accessible by mean of the online account , and " . ( 11 ) in subsection ( 10 ) , after " ( 1 ) " insert " or ( 1A ) " . 8 in section 42 ( code of practice about the extraction of information ) , in subsection ( 1 ) — ( a ) after " 37 ( 1 ) and " insert " ( 1A ) and " ; ( b ) after " 41 ( 1 ) " insert " and ( 1A ) " . 9 ( 1 ) section 44 ( authorise person ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 2 ) , for " power in subsection ( 1 ) " substitute " power in subsection ( 1 ) and ( 1A ) " . ( 3 ) in subsection ( 3 ) — ( a ) for " power " substitute " power " ; ( b ) after " 41 ( 1 ) " insert " and ( 1A ) " . 10 in schedule 3 ( extraction of information from electronic device : authorise person ) — ( a ) in the Schedule heading , omit " from electronic device " ; ( b ) after " electronic device " ( in each place ) insert " , or the extraction of information accessible by mean of online account , " . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this new schedule confer power on police constable and other authorised person to extract information accessible by mean of an online account in circumstance where a user of the account have agree to the extraction and in certain other circumstance . bring up , and add to the Bill . new Schedule 2 - confiscation order : Scotland " case in which accuse have a criminal lifestyle " 1 ( 1 ) in section 142 of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 ( criminal lifestyle ) , in subsection ( 2 ) — ( a ) after " benefit " , in the first place it occur , insert " , or intend to benefit , " ; ( b ) in paragraph ( a ) — ( i ) for " three " , in both place it occur , substitute " two " ; ( ii ) after " benefit " insert " or intend to benefit " ; ( c ) in paragraph ( b ) , after " benefit " insert " or intend to benefit " . ( 2 ) the amendment make by sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( a ) , ( b ) ( ii ) and ( c ) do not apply in relation to conduct that take place wholly or partly before the date on which those provision come into force . compensation direction 2 ( 1 ) the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 107 insert — " 107a increase available amount : compensation direction ( 1 ) this section apply where under section 107 ( 3 ) a court vary a confiscation order so as to increase the amount require to be pay under the order . ( 2 ) the court may make a supplementary compensation direction if — ( a ) a compensation order have be make against the accuse in respect of the offence ( or any of the offence ) concern , and ( b ) at the time the compensation order be make , the amount of the compensatable loss that have be sustain by the person in whose favour it be make be great than the amount require to be pay by the compensation order . ( 3 ) a supplementary compensation direction be a direction that so much of the amount recover under the confiscation order as the court consider appropriate be to be pay to the person in whose favour the compensation order be make . ( 4 ) that amount must not exceed the difference between — ( a ) the amount of the compensatable loss that have be sustain by the person at the time the compensation order be make , and ( b ) the amount require to be pay to the person by the compensation order , or so much of that difference as remain unpaid . ( 5 ) if the amount mention in subsection ( 4 ) ( a ) exceed any applicable maximum amount , subsection ( 4 ) apply as if the amount in subsection ( 4 ) ( a ) be the applicable maximum amount . ( 6 ) the court may make a compensation direction if — ( a ) at the time the confiscation order be make , a person be know to the court to have sustain compensatable loss as a result of the offence ( or any of the offence ) concern , but ( b ) a compensation order have not be make against the accuse in respect of that compensatable loss . ( 7 ) a compensation direction be a direction that so much of the amount recover under the confiscation order as the court consider appropriate be to be pay to the person mention in subsection ( 6 ) ( a ) . ( 8 ) that amount must not exceed — ( a ) the amount of the compensatable loss that have be sustain by the person as a result of the offence ( or any of the offence ) concern at the time the confiscation order be make , or ( b ) so much of that amount as remain unpaid . ( 9 ) if the amount mention in subsection ( 8 ) ( a ) exceed any applicable maximum amount , subsection ( 8 ) apply as if the amount in subsection ( 8 ) ( a ) be the applicable maximum amount . ( 10 ) in this section — " applicable maximum amount " mean the maximum amount of compensation ( if any ) that a compensation order make against the accuse in respect of the offence ( or offence ) concerned could have require the accuse to pay ; " compensatable loss " mean personal injury , loss or damage of a kind in respect of which a compensation order could have be make ; " compensation order " mean a compensation order under section 249 of the Procedure Act . " ( 3 ) in section 131 ( sum receive by clerk of court ) after subsection ( 6a ) insert — " ( 6b ) if under section 107a ( compensation direction ) a direction be make for an amount to be pay to a person , the clerk of court must next apply the sum in payment of that amount . " " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this new schedule change the meaning of " criminal lifestyle " for the purpose of confiscation order in Scotland and it enable a court to direct that , where it increase the amount payable under a scottish confiscation order , in certain case sum recover under the order be to be pay by way of compensation to those who suffer loss as a result of the offence . bring up , and add to the Bill . new Schedule 3 - special police force : bar person list and advisory list " Part 1 - bar person list " Part 1 Duty to maintain bar person list 1 ( 1 ) each relevant policing authority must maintain a bar person list . ( 2 ) in this schedule " relevant policing authority " mean — ( a ) the British Transport Police Authority ; ( b ) the Civil Nuclear Police Authority ; ( c ) the Director General of the National Crime Agency ; ( d ) the Secretary of State . ( 3 ) each bar person list must include such information in relation to a person include in the list as be specify in regulation make by the Secretary of State . inclusion of NCA officer and constable in bar person list 2 ( 1 ) the Director General of the National Crime Agency must include a person in the bar person list maintain by they if — ( a ) the person cease to be an NCA officer by virtue of be dismiss at disciplinary proceeding , or ( b ) the person be a former NCA officer and there be a finding in relation to the person in disciplinary proceeding that the person would have be dismiss if the person have still be an NCA officer . ( 2 ) each other relevant policing authority must include a person in the bar person list maintain by they if — ( a ) the person cease to be a constable of the relevant police force by virtue of be dismiss at disciplinary proceeding , or ( b ) the person be a former constable of the relevant police force and there be a finding in relation to the person in disciplinary proceeding that the person would have be dismiss if the person have still be a constable of the relevant police force . ( 3 ) " relevant police force " mean — ( a ) in relation to the British Transport Police Authority , the British Transport Police Force ; ( b ) in relation to the Civil Nuclear Police Authority , the Civil Nuclear Constabulary ; ( c ) in relation to the Secretary of State , the Ministry of Defence Police . inclusion of civilian employee in bar person list 3 ( 1 ) this paragraph apply to — ( a ) the Civil Nuclear Police Authority ; ( b ) the British Transport Police Authority . ( 2 ) each relevant policing authority to which this paragraph apply must include a person in the bar person list maintain by they if — ( a ) the person cease to be a civilian employee of the authority by virtue of be dismiss and the reason , or one of the reason , for the dismissal relate to conduct , efficiency or effectiveness , or ( b ) the person be a former civilian employee of the authority and there be a finding in relation to the person in disciplinary proceeding that , if the person have still be such an employee , the person would have be dismiss as mention in paragraph ( a ) . ( 3 ) in this Schedule " civilian employee " — ( a ) in relation to the Civil Nuclear Police Authority , mean an employee of the Authority who be not a constable ; ( b ) in relation to the British Transport Police Authority , mean a person employ by the Authority under section 27 of the Railways and Transport Safety Act 2003 who be — ( i ) under the direction and control of the Chief Constable of the British Transport Police Force , or ( ii ) designate as a community support officer or police support officer by virtue of section 28 ( 1 ) ( a ) of that Act . ( 4 ) for the purpose of this paragraph a person be dismiss if the circumstance in which the person cease to be a civilian employee amount to dismissal within the meaning of Part 10 of the Employment Rights Act 1996 ( see section 95 of that Act ) . removal of NCA officer and constable from bar person list 4 ( 1 ) this paragraph apply where — ( a ) a person include in a bar person list by virtue of paragraph 2 ( 1 ) ( a ) be reinstate as an NCA officer , ( b ) a person include in a bar person list by virtue of paragraph 2 ( 2 ) ( a ) be reinstate as a constable of the relevant police force , or ( c ) in relation to a person include in a bar person list by virtue of paragraph 2 ( 1 ) ( b ) or ( 2 ) ( b ) , the finding that the person would have be dismiss be set aside . ( 2 ) the relevant policing authority must remove the person from the bar person list . removal of civilian employee from bar person list 5 ( 1 ) this paragraph apply where — ( a ) the dismissal of a person include in a bar person list by virtue of paragraph 3 ( 2 ) ( a ) be find to have be an unfair dismissal follow a complaint under section 111 of the Employment Rights Act 1996 ( whether by an employment tribunal or on appeal ) , or ( b ) the finding that a person include in a bar person list by virtue of paragraph 3 ( 2 ) ( b ) would have be dismiss be set aside at proceeding that be identify as appeal proceeding by regulation make by the Secretary of State . ( 2 ) the relevant policing authority must remove the person from the bar person list maintain by the authority . removal from bar list : further provision 6 the Secretary of State may by regulation make provision in connection with the removal of person from bar person list otherwise than under paragraph 4 or 5 . publication of information in bar person list 7 ( 1 ) this paragraph apply to — ( a ) the British Transport Police Authority ; ( b ) the Civil Nuclear Police Authority ; ( c ) the Secretary of State . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation require a relevant policing authority to which this paragraph apply to publish information about person include in the bar person list maintain by the authority . ( 3 ) the regulation may in particular make provision about — ( a ) the person include in the bar person list about whom information be to be publish ; ( b ) the information which be to be publish ; ( c ) when the information be to be publish ; ( d ) the period for which the information be to remain publish ; ( e ) how the information be to be publish . power to disclose information in bar person list 8 a relevant policing authority may , if it consider it to be in the public interest to do so , disclose to any person information include in its bar person list which relate to a particular person who be include in that list . part 2 - advisory list Duty to maintain advisory list 9 ( 1 ) each relevant policing authority must maintain an advisory list . ( 2 ) an advisory list must include such information in relation to a person as be specify in regulation make by the Secretary of State . inclusion of person in advisory list 10 ( 1 ) the Director General of the National Crime Agency must include a person in the advisory list maintain by they if — ( a ) the person cease to be an NCA officer by resign or retire , and ( b ) Condition 1 or Condition 2 be meet in relation to the person . ( 2 ) each other relevant policing authority must include a person in the advisory list maintain by they if — ( a ) the person cease to be a constable of the relevant police force by resign or retire , and ( b ) Condition 1 or Condition 2 be meet in relation to the person . ( 3 ) the Civil Nuclear Police Authority and the British Transport Police Authority must also include a person in the advisory list maintain by they if — ( a ) the person cease to be a civilian employee of the authority by resign or retire , and ( b ) Condition 1 or Condition 2 be meet in relation to the person . ( 4 ) condition 1 be that the resignation or retirement take place — ( a ) after a relevant allegation about the person come to the attention of the relevant policing authority , but ( b ) before disciplinary proceeding in respect of the allegation be bring or , if bring , before they conclude . ( 5 ) but condition 1 be not meet if , before the person resign or retire , it be determined that no disciplinary proceeding would be bring against the person in respect of the allegation . ( 6 ) condition 2 be that a relevant allegation about the person come to the attention of the relevant policing authority after the person resign or retire . ( 7 ) for the purpose of this paragraph an allegation about a person be a relevant allegation if — ( a ) it relate to the conduct , efficiency or effectiveness of the person , and ( b ) the allegation ( if prove ) be of a type that might have result in the person be dismiss if the person have not resign or retire . removal from advisory list 11 ( 1 ) a relevant policing authority must remove a person from the advisory list maintain by the authority if — ( a ) it be determined that no disciplinary proceeding will be bring against the person , ( b ) disciplinary proceeding bring against the person be withdraw , or ( c ) disciplinary proceeding bring against the person be conclude without there be a finding that the person would have be dismiss if the person have not resign or retire . ( 2 ) a relevant policing authority must remove a person from the advisory list maintain by the authority if the person be include in the bar person list maintain by the authority . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make provision in connection with removal from an advisory list otherwise than under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) . power to disclose information in advisory list 12 a relevant policing authority may , if it consider it to be in the public interest to do so , disclose to any person information include in the advisory list maintain by the authority which relate to a particular person who be include in that advisory list . part 3 - supplementary provision mean of " disciplinary proceeding " 13 in this Schedule " disciplinary proceeding " — ( a ) in relation to an officer or former officer of the National Crime Agency , mean any proceeding or process relate to the person ' s conduct and any action to be take as a result of that conduct ; ( b ) in relation to a constable or former constable of the British Transport Police Force , mean proceeding under regulation make under section 36 , 37 , 40 or 42 of the Railways and Transport Safety Act 2003 which apply , or deal with matter that could be deal with by , regulation under section 50 ( 3 ) or ( 3A ) or section 51 ( 2A ) or ( 2b ) of the Police Act 1996 ; ( c ) in relation to a constable or former constable of the Civil Nuclear Constabulary , mean proceeding under provision relate to matter which be the subject of regulation under section 50 ( 3 ) or ( 3A ) of the Police Act 1996 ; ( d ) in relation to a constable or former constable of the Ministry of Defence Police , mean proceeding under regulation make under section 3A of the Ministry of Defence Police Act 1987 ; ( e ) in relation to a civilian employee of the British Transport Police Authority or the Civil Nuclear Police Authority , have the meaning give by regulation make by the Secretary of State . interpretation : general 14 in this schedule — " advisory list " mean a list maintain by a relevant policing authority under paragraph 9 ( 1 ) ; " bar person list " mean a list maintain by a relevant policing authority under paragraph 1 ( 1 ) ; " civilian employee " have the meaning give by paragraph 3 ( 3 ) ; " NCA officer " have the meaning give in section 16 ( 1 ) of the Crime and Courts Act 2013 ; " relevant police force " have the meaning give by paragraph 2 ( 3 ) ; " relevant policing authority " have the meaning give by paragraph 1 ( 2 ) . regulation 15 ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must consult the Scottish Ministers before make regulation under this Schedule contain provision which would be within the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament , if contain in an Act of that Parliament . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must consult the Department of Justice in Northern Ireland before make regulation under this Schedule contain provision which — ( a ) would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly , if it be contain in an Act of that Assembly , and ( b ) would not , if it be contain in a Bill in the Northern Ireland Assembly , result in the Bill require the consent of the Secretary of State under section 8 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998 . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this new schedule require the British Transport Police Authority , Civil Nuclear Police Authority , National Crime Agency and Ministry of Defence Police to maintain list of bar person and advisory list . part 4A of the Police Act 1996 already make such provision for regional police force in England and Wales . bring up , and add to the Bill . clause 9 - Guidance on fly - tip enforcement in England Amendment propose : 174 , page 18 , line 3 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) the consultation undertake by the Secretary of State must include an examination of establish a penalty point fine to those find convict of an offence under section 33 or 87 of the Environmental Protection Act 1990 . " — ( Matt Vickers . ) this amendment would require the Secretary of State to consult on establish a system for those who fly tip or leave litter to receive penalty point on their driving licence . question put , that the amendment be make . Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie chown Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Louie french Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Andrew Snowden David Simmonds Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Gen Kitchen Kate Dearden the House divide : Ayes 194 , Noes 335 . question accordingly negative . clause 25 - Possession of weapon with intent to use unlawful violence etc Amendment propose : 175 , page 30 , line 24 , leave out " 4 " and insert " 14 " — ( Matt Vickers . ) this amendment would increase the maximum sentence for possession of a weapon with intent to commit unlawful violence from four to 14 year . the Independent Reviewer of Terrorism Legislation recommend an increase in his review follow the Southport attack . question put , that the amendment be make . Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Gareth Davies Mims davy Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Louie french Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Andrew Snowden David Simmonds Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Gen Kitchen Kate Dearden the House divide : Ayes 184 , Noes 336 . question accordingly negative . clause 30 - Delivery of knife etc amendment make : 24 , page 38 , line 24 , at end insert — " 40b Offence of UK seller deliver etc bladed product to collection point : England and Wales ( 1 ) this section apply if — ( a ) a person ( ' the seller ' ) sell a bladed product to another person ( ' the buyer ' ) , and ( b ) the seller and the buyer be not in each other ' s presence at the time of the sale and the seller be within the United Kingdom at that time . ( 2 ) the seller commit an offence if , for the purpose of supply the bladed product to the buyer , the seller — ( a ) deliver the bladed product to a collection point in England or Wales , or ( b ) arrange for the bladed product to be deliver to a collection point in England or Wales . ( 3 ) it be a defence for a person charge with an offence under subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) to show that — ( a ) when the package contain the bladed product be deliver to the collection point , it be clearly mark to indicate that it contain a bladed product and should only be give into the hand of a person who — ( i ) be age 18 or over , and ( ii ) if the buyer be an individual , be the buyer , and ( b ) they take all reasonable precaution and exercise all due diligence to ensure that the package contain the bladed product would be give into the hand of such a person . ( 4 ) it be a defence for a person charge with an offence under subsection ( 2 ) ( b ) to show that — ( a ) when the package contain the bladed product be give to the person with whom the arrangement be make , it be clearly mark to indicate that it contain a bladed product and should only be give into the hand of a person who — ( i ) be age 18 or over , and ( ii ) if the buyer be an individual , be the buyer , and ( b ) the seller take all reasonable precaution and exercise all due diligence to ensure that the package contain the bladed product would be give into the hand of such a person . ( 5 ) a person be to be take to have show a matter for the purpose of this section if — ( a ) sufficient evidence of the matter be adduce to raise an issue with respect to it , and ( b ) the contrary be not prove beyond reasonable doubt . ( 6 ) a person guilty of an offence under this section be liable on summary conviction to a fine . ( 7 ) ' collection point ' mean a place — ( a ) from which the bladed product may be collect by the buyer or a person act on behalf of the buyer , and ( b ) where on collection the bladed product be give by an individual to the buyer or a person act on behalf of the buyer . ( 8 ) section 39 ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) apply for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) as it apply for the purpose of section 39 ( 1 ) ( b ) . ( 9 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation provide for other defence for a person charge with an offence under this section . 40c offence of courier deliver bladed product sell by UK seller to collection point : England and Wales ( 1 ) this section apply if — ( a ) a person ( ' the seller ' ) sell a bladed product to another person ( ' the buyer ' ) , ( b ) the seller and the buyer be not in each other ' s presence at the time of the sale and the seller be within the United Kingdom at that time , ( c ) before the sale the seller enter into an arrangement with a person ( ' the courier ' ) by which the person agree to deliver bladed product for the seller , and ( d ) the courier be aware when they enter into the arrangement that it cover the delivery of bladed product . ( 2 ) the courier commit an offence if , pursuant to the arrangement , they deliver a bladed product to a collection point in England or Wales . ( 3 ) it be a defence for a person charge with an offence under this section to show that — ( a ) when the package contain the bladed product be deliver to the collection point , it be clearly mark to indicate that it contain a bladed product and should only be give into the hand of a person who — ( i ) be age 18 or over , and ( ii ) if the buyer be an individual , be the buyer , and ( b ) they take all reasonable precaution and exercise all due diligence to ensure that the package contain the bladed product would be give into the hand of such a person . ( 4 ) it be a defence for a person charge with an offence under this section to show that the person do not know , and a reasonable person would not have know , that the product be a bladed product . ( 5 ) a person be to be take to have show a matter for the purpose of this section if — ( a ) sufficient evidence of the matter be adduce to raise an issue with respect to it , and ( b ) the contrary be not prove beyond reasonable doubt . ( 6 ) a person guilty of an offence under this section be liable on summary conviction to a fine . ( 7 ) ' collection point ' have the meaning give in section 40b . ( 8 ) section 39 ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) apply for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) as it apply for the purpose of section 39 ( 1 ) ( b ) . ( 9 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation provide for other defence for a person charge with an offence under this section . 40d hand over bladed product sell by UK seller at collection point : England and Wales ( 1 ) this section apply if — ( a ) a person ( ' the seller ' ) sell a bladed product to another person ( ' the buyer ' ) , ( b ) the seller and the buyer be not in each other ' s presence at the time of the sale and the seller be within the United Kingdom at that time , ( c ) the bladed product be deliver to a collection point in England or Wales , and ( d ) condition a or condition b be satisfied . ( 2 ) Condition A be that — ( a ) the delivery be pursuant to an arrangement enter into before the delivery by — ( i ) the person operate the collection point ( the ' operator ' ) , and ( ii ) the seller or the person deliver the bladed product to the collection point , and ( b ) the operator be aware when they enter into the arrangement that it cover the delivery to the collection point of bladed product . ( 3 ) condition B be that the seller be the operator of the collection point . ( 4 ) the operator commit an offence if , when the bladed product be collect , it be not give into the hand of an eligible person . ( 5 ) a person act on behalf of the operator commit an offence if — ( a ) they give it to a person collect it , but ( b ) do not give it into the hand of an eligible person . ( 6 ) ' eligible person ' mean a person who — ( a ) be age 18 or over , and ( b ) if the buyer be an individual , be the buyer . ( 7 ) it be a defence for a person charge with an offence under subsection ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) to show that the collection condition be meet . ( 8 ) the collection condition be that — ( a ) the person ( ' p ' ) who collect the bladed product show the individual give it to they an identity document issue to p , and ( b ) on the basis of that document a reasonable person would have be satisfied — ( i ) that p be over 18 , and ( ii ) if the buyer be an individual , that p be the buyer . ( 9 ) it be a defence for a person charge with an offence under subsection ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) to show that the person do not know , and a reasonable person would not have know , that the product be a bladed product . ( 10 ) a person be to be take to have show a matter for the purpose of this section if — ( a ) sufficient evidence of the matter be adduce to raise an issue with respect to it , and ( b ) the contrary be not prove beyond reasonable doubt . ( 11 ) a person guilty of an offence under this section be liable on summary conviction to a fine . ( 12 ) in this section — ' collection point ' have the meaning give in section 40b ; ' identity document ' have the meaning give in section 39a . ( 13 ) section 39 ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) apply for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) as it apply for the purpose of section 39 ( 1 ) ( b ) . ( 14 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation provide for other defence for a person charge with an offence under this section . " this amendment make change to the offence and defence relate to delivery of knife to collection point in England or Wales follow a remote sale . amendment 25 , page 40 , line 17 , leave out " 40a " and insert " 40d " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 24 . amendment 26 , page 40 , line 18 , leave out " 40a " and insert " 40d " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 24 . Amendment 27 , page 40 , line 19 , leave out " 40a " and insert " 40d " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 24 . clause 32 - Delivery of crossbow Amendments make : 28 , page 44 , line 39 , at end insert — " 1F Offence of seller etc deliver crossbow or part of crossbow to collection point in England or Wales ( 1 ) this section apply if — ( a ) a person ( ' a ' ) sell or let on hire a crossbow or part of a crossbow to another person ( ' b ' ) , and ( b ) a and B be not in each other ' s presence at the time of the sale or let on hire and a be within the United Kingdom at that time . ( 2 ) a commit an offence if , for the purpose of supply the crossbow or part of a crossbow to B , a — ( a ) deliver the crossbow or part of a crossbow to a collection point in England or Wales , or ( b ) arrange for the crossbow or part of a crossbow to be deliver to a collection point in England or Wales . ( 3 ) it be a defence for a person charge with an offence under subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) to show that — ( a ) when the package contain the crossbow or part of a crossbow be deliver to the collection point , it be clearly mark to indicate that it contain a crossbow or a part of a crossbow and should only be give into the hand of a person who — ( i ) be age 18 or over , and ( ii ) if the person to whom the crossbow or part of a crossbow be sell or let on hire be an individual , be that individual , and ( b ) the person charge with the offence take all reasonable precaution and exercise all due diligence to ensure that the package contain the crossbow or part of a crossbow would be give into the hand of such a person . ( 4 ) it be a defence for a person charge with an offence under subsection ( 2 ) ( b ) to show that — ( a ) when the package contain the crossbow or part of a crossbow be give to the person with whom the arrangement be make , it be clearly mark to indicate that it contain a crossbow or a part of a crossbow and should only be give into the hand of a person who — ( i ) be age 18 or over , and ( ii ) if the person to whom the crossbow or part of a crossbow be sell or let on hire be an individual , be that individual , and ( b ) the person charge with the offence take all reasonable precaution and exercise all due diligence to ensure that the package contain the crossbow or part of a crossbow would be give into the hand of such a person . ( 5 ) a person guilty of an offence under this section be liable on summary conviction to a fine . ( 6 ) ' collection point ' mean a place — ( a ) from which the crossbow or part of a crossbow may be collect by the person to whom the crossbow or part of a crossbow be sell or let on hire or a person act on behalf of that person , and ( b ) where on collection the crossbow or part of a crossbow be give by an individual to the person to whom the crossbow or part of a crossbow be sell or let on hire , or a person act on behalf of that person . ( 7 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation provide for other defence for a person charge with an offence under this section . 1 G Offence of delivery business deliver crossbow or part of crossbow to collection point in England or Wales ( 1 ) this section apply if — ( a ) a person ( ' a ' ) sell or let on hire a crossbow or part of a crossbow to another person ( ' b ' ) , ( b ) a and B be not in each other ' s presence at the time of the sale or let on hire and a be within the United Kingdom at that time , ( c ) before the sale or let on hire a enter into an arrangement with a person ( ' c ' ) by which C agree to deliver crossbow or part of crossbow for A , and ( d ) c be aware when they enter into the arrangement that it cover the delivery of crossbow or part of crossbow . ( 2 ) c commit an offence if , pursuant to the arrangement , they deliver a crossbow or a part of a crossbow to a collection point in England or Wales . ( 3 ) it be a defence for a person charge with an offence under this section to show that — ( a ) when the package contain the crossbow or part of a crossbow be deliver to the collection point , it be clearly mark to indicate that it contain a crossbow or part of a crossbow and should only be give into the hand of a person who — ( i ) be age 18 or over , and ( ii ) if the person to whom the crossbow or part of a crossbow be sell or let on hire be an individual , be that individual , and ( b ) they take all reasonable precaution and exercise all due diligence to ensure that the package contain the crossbow or part of a crossbow would be give into the hand of such a person . ( 4 ) it be a defence for a person charge with an offence under this section to show that the person do not know , and a reasonable person would not have know , that the product be a crossbow or a part of a crossbow . ( 5 ) a person guilty of an offence under this section be liable on summary conviction to a fine . ( 6 ) ' collection point ' have the meaning give in section 1F . ( 7 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation provide for other defence for a person charge with an offence under this section . 1H Handing over crossbow or part of crossbow at collection point in England or Wales ( 1 ) this section apply if — ( a ) a person ( ' a ' ) sell or let on hire a crossbow or part of a crossbow to another person ( ' b ' ) , ( b ) a and B be not in each other ' s presence at the time of the sale or let on hire and a be within the United Kingdom at that time , ( c ) the crossbow or part of a crossbow be deliver to a collection point in England or Wales , and ( d ) condition a or condition b be satisfied . ( 2 ) Condition A be that — ( a ) the delivery be pursuant to an arrangement enter into before the delivery by — ( i ) the person operate the collection point ( the ' operator ' ) , and ( ii ) a or the person deliver the crossbow or part of a crossbow to the collection point , and ( b ) the operator be aware when they enter into the arrangement that it cover the delivery to the collection point of crossbow or part of crossbow . ( 3 ) condition B be that a be the operator of the collection point . ( 4 ) the operator commit an offence if , when the crossbow or part of a crossbow be collect , it be not give into the hand of an eligible person . ( 5 ) a person act on behalf of the operator commit an offence if — ( a ) they give it to a person collect it , but ( b ) do not give it into the hand of an eligible person . ( 6 ) ' eligible person ' mean a person who — ( a ) be age 18 or over , and ( b ) if the person to whom the crossbow or part of a crossbow be sell or let on hire be an individual , be that individual . ( 7 ) it be a defence for a person charge with an offence under subsection ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) to show that the collection condition be meet . ( 8 ) the collection condition be that — ( a ) the person ( ' p ' ) who collect the crossbow or part of a crossbow show the individual give it to they an identity document issue to p , and ( b ) on the basis of that document a reasonable person would have be satisfied — ( i ) that p be over 18 , and ( ii ) if the person to whom the crossbow or part of a crossbow be sell or let on hire be an individual , that p be that individual . ( 9 ) it be a defence for a person charge with an offence under subsection ( 4 ) or ( 5 ) to show that the person do not know , and a reasonable person would not have know , that the product be a crossbow or a part of a crossbow . ( 10 ) a person guilty of an offence under this section be liable on summary conviction to a fine . ( 11 ) in this section — ' collection point ' have the meaning give in section 1f ; ' identity document ' have the meaning give in section 1b ( 5 ) . ( 12 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation provide for other defence for a person charge with an offence under this section . " this amendment create offence relate to delivery of crossbow to collection point in England or Wales follow a remote sale or let on hire . amendment 29 , page 45 , line 1 , leave out " 1f " and insert " 1i " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this amendment be consequential on amendment 28 . clause 33 - sale and delivery of crossbow : supplementary provision Amendments make : 30 , page 46 , line 5 , leave out " 1f " and insert " 1i " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 28 . amendment 31 , page 46 , line 6 , leave out " 1f " and insert " 1i " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 28 . amendment 32 , page 46 , line 6 , leave out " 1 g " and insert " 1J " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 28 . amendment 33 , page 46 , line 28 , leave out " or 1E ( 7 ) " and insert " , 1E ( 7 ) , 1F ( 7 ) , 1 g ( 7 ) or 1h ( 12 ) " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this amendment be consequential on amendment 28 . clause 38 - child criminal exploitation Amendments make : 34 , page 51 , line 29 , leave out from " of " to end of line 30 and insert " — ( i ) cause the child to commit an offence , ( ii ) cause the child to do anything outside the United Kingdom which would constitute an offence if do in any part of the United Kingdom , or ( iii ) facilitate the causing of the child , in future , to commit an offence or do anything outside the United Kingdom which would constitute an offence if do in any part of the United Kingdom , and " see the statement for NC54 . Amendment 35 , page 51 , line 35 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) and insert — " ( 2 ) in this section and section ( prove an offence under section 38 ) — ( a ) ' act ' include omission ( and similar reference , include reference to do anything , be to be construe accordingly ) ; ( b ) ' child ' mean a person under the age of 18 ; ( c ) ' offence ' mean an offence under the law of England and Wales , Scotland or Northern Ireland . " see the statement for NC54 . Amendment 36 , page 52 , line 7 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) where — ( a ) a person ( d1 ) arrange for another person ( D2 ) to engage in conduct towards or in respect of a child , and ( b ) d2 engage in that conduct , d1 be to be treat for the purpose of this section and section ( prove an offence under section 38 ) as also have engage in that conduct . " this amendment provide that where a person ( d1 ) arrange for another to engage in conduct towards or in respect of a child , and the other person engage in that conduct , d1 be also treat as engage in the conduct . amendment 37 , page 52 , line 9 , after " conviction " insert " in England and Wales " . this amendment provide that the penalty mention in paragraph ( a ) of subsection ( 3 ) be for summary conviction in England and Wales . amendment 38 , page 52 , line 10 , at end insert — " ( aa ) on summary conviction in Scotland , to imprisonment for a term not exceed 12 month or a fine not exceed the statutory maximum ( or both ) ; ( ab ) on summary conviction in Northern Ireland , to imprisonment for a term not exceed 6 month or a fine not exceed the statutory maximum ( or both ) ; " . — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this amendment provide for the penalty for summary conviction in Scotland and Northern Ireland . clause 39 - power to make CCE prevention order Amendment make : 39 , page 52 , line 35 , leave out subsection ( 3 ) to ( 7 ) and insert — " ( 3 ) the first condition be that — ( a ) in any case , the court be satisfied that the defendant have engage in child criminal exploitation or in conduct associate with child criminal exploitation , or ( b ) in a case within subsection ( 1 ) ( d ) , the offence in question be an offence under section 38 . ( 4 ) the second condition be that the court consider that there be a risk that the defendant will engage in child criminal exploitation . ( 5 ) the third condition be that the court consider that it be necessary to make the order to prevent the defendant from engage , or reduce the likelihood of the defendant engage , in child criminal exploitation . ( 6 ) in subsection ( 3 ) — ( a ) in paragraph ( a ) , the reference to engage in anything include engage in it before ( as well as after ) the time when this section come into force ; ( b ) paragraph ( b ) apply in relation to finding make in respect of conduct occur before ( as well as after ) that time . ( 7 ) in this section and section 40 to 49 — ( a ) a reference to a person ' engage in child criminal exploitation ' be to the person do anything that constitute an offence , in England and Wales , under section 38 ; ( b ) a reference to a person ' engage in conduct associate with child criminal exploitation ' be to the person do anything associate with the doing of anything that constitute such an offence . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this amendment and amendment 40 , 42 , 31 , 48 , 135 , 136 , 137 , 140 and 144 be consequential on NC54 and amendment 34 . clause 40 - CCE prevention order Amendment make : 40 , page 53 , line 22 , leave out from " of " to end of line 23 and insert " prevent the defendant from engage , or reduce the likelihood of the defendant engage , in child criminal exploitation . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) see the statement for amendment 39 . clause 45 - notification requirement Amendment make : 41 , page 56 , line 30 , leave out paragraph ( a ) to ( c ) and insert — " ( a ) lawfully detain or otherwise lawfully deprived of their liberty , in the United Kingdom , or " . — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this amendment generalise the provision currently make by paragraph ( a ) to ( c ) ( period to be disregard ) . clause 46 - variation and discharge of CCE prevention order Amendment make : 42 , page 57 , line 16 , leave out from " to " to end of line 17 and insert " prevent the defendant from engage , or reduce the likelihood of the defendant engage , in child criminal exploitation . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) see the statement for amendment 39 . clause 47 - Appeals Amendment make : 43 , page 58 , line 27 , leave out from " if " to end of line 29 and insert " the defendant have be convict of the offence and the order be a sentence pass on the defendant for that offence . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this amendment clarify how a defendant may appeal against the making of an order , in case where the order be make otherwise than on application . clause 48 - offence of breach CCE prevention order Amendment make : 44 , page 59 , line 17 , at end insert — " ( 5 ) in section 80 ( 3 ) of the Sentencing Code ( list of circumstance where an order for conditional discharge be not available ) after paragraph ( f ) insert — ' ( g ) section 48 ( 3 ) of the Crime and Policing Act 2025 ( breach of CCE prevention order ) ; ' . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this amendment insert an amendment consequential on the provision make by subsection ( 3 ) . clause 49 - offence of provide false information Amendments make : 45 , page 59 , line 21 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) and insert — " ( 2 ) the person commit an offence if — ( a ) without reasonable excuse , they fail to comply with that section , or ( b ) in purport compliance with that section , they notify to the police any information which they know to be false . " this amendment expand the offence under this clause so as to cover a failure to comply with clause 45 ( notification requirement ) . amendment 46 , page 59 , line 27 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) a person commit an offence under subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) on the day on which they first fail , without reasonable excuse , to comply with section 45 . ( 3b ) the person continue to commit the offence throughout any period during which the failure continue . ( 3c ) but the person may not be prosecute more than once in respect of the same failure . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this amendment provide that a failure to comply with clause 45 ( notification requirement ) be a continue offence . clause 50 - Interpretation and supplementary provision Amendments make : 47 , page 59 , leave out line 33 to 35 . see the statement for amendment 39 . amendment 48 , page 59 , line 36 , at end insert — " ' engage in child criminal exploitation ' have the meaning give by section 39 ( and related expression be to be construe accordingly ) . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) see the statement for amendment 39 . clause 52 - Guidance Amendment make : 49 , page 60 , line 16 , leave out clause 52 . — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this amendment remove a power for the Secretary of State to issue guidance which be no long need because it be subsume in the wide power in NC57 . clause 56 - Protections for witness , and lifestyle offence Amendments make : 50 , page 63 , line 5 , at end insert — " ( bc ) an offence under section ( cause internal concealment of item for criminal purpose ) of that Act ( cause internal concealment of item for criminal purpose ) ; " . this amendment add the new offence create by NC56 to the provision in the Youth Justice and Criminal Evidence Act 1999 which make victim of the offence mention eligible for special measure in criminal proceeding . Amendment 51 , page 63 , line 10 , at end insert — " ( g ) an offence under section ( cause internal concealment of item for criminal purpose ) of that Act ( cause internal concealment of item for criminal purpose ) ; " . this amendment add the new offence create by NC56 to the provision in the Youth Justice and Criminal Evidence Act 1999 which provide for a rebuttable presumption about the age of victim of the offence mention . amendment 52 , page 63 , line 15 , at end insert — " ( ac ) an offence under section ( cause internal concealment of item for criminal purpose ) of that Act ( cause internal concealment of item for criminal purpose ) ; " . this amendment add the new offence create by NC56 to the provision in the Youth Justice and Criminal Evidence Act 1999 which prevent a defendant from cross - examine a victim of any of the offence mention . amendment 53 , page 63 , line 19 , leave out from " section " to end of line 21 and insert " 38 of the Crime and Policing Act 2025 ( child criminal exploitation ) ; ( f ) an offence under section 53 of that Act ( control another ' s home for criminal purpose ) . ' ; " . this amendment provide for complainant who be witness in proceeding for an offence under clause 38 ( as well as an offence under clause 53 ) to be eligible for assistance by virtue of article 5 of the Criminal Evidence ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1999 . amendment 54 , page 63 , line 24 , leave out from " offence " to end of line 27 and insert — " ( b ) an offence under section 38 of the Crime and Policing Act 2025 ( child criminal exploitation ) , or ( c ) an offence under section 53 of that Act ( control another ' s home for criminal purpose ) , ' . " this amendment provide that in case of uncertainty as the age of a witness who be a complainant in respect of an offence under clause 38 ( as well as an offence under clause 53 ) , they be presume for the purpose of Part 2 of the Criminal Evidence ( Northern Ireland ) order 1999 to be under 18 . Amendment 55 , page 63 , line 30 , leave out from " section " to end of line 32 and insert " 38 of the Crime and Policing Act 2025 ( child criminal exploitation ) ; ( cg ) an offence under section 53 of that Act ( control another ' s home for criminal purpose ) ; ' ; " . this amendment provide that article 23 of the Criminal Evidence ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1999 ( which prohibit the cross - examination in person of certain witness ) apply in relation to an offence under clause 38 ( as well as to an offence under clause 53 ) . amendment 56 , page 64 , line 2 , at end insert — " ( 3 ) an offence under section ( cause internal concealment of item for criminal purpose ) of that Act ( cause internal concealment of item for criminal purpose ) . " this amendment add the new offence create by NC56 to Schedule 2 of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 with the effect that the offence be criminal lifestyle offence . amendment 57 , page 64 , line 3 , leave out paragraph ( b ) . this amendment remove a provision that would have make the offence in clause 53 of the Bill , of control another ' s home for criminal purpose , a lifestyle offence for the purpose of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 as it apply in Scotland . Amendment 58 , page 64 , leave out line 10 and 11 and insert — " 3b ( 1 ) an offence under section 38 of the Crime and Policing Act 2025 ( child criminal exploitation ) . ( 2 ) an offence under section 53 of that Act ( control another ' s home for criminal purpose ) . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this amendment provide that an offence under clause 38 ( as well as an offence under clause 53 ) be a lifestyle offence in Northern Ireland for the purpose of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 . clause 57 - child sexual abuse image - generator Amendments make : 59 , page 65 , line 7 , leave out " any service , " . this amendment clarify that a CSA image - generator be , for the purpose of section 46a of the Sexual Offences Act ( insert by this clause ) , a thing ( and not a service ) . amendment 60 , page 65 , leave out line 22 to 27 . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 59 . amendment 61 , page 66 , leave out line 4 to 6 and insert — " ( 2 ) an internet service provider do not commit an offence under section 46a by — ( a ) provide access to a communication network , or ( b ) transmitting , in a communication network , information provide by a user , if the provider do not — ( i ) initiate the transmission , ( ii ) select the recipient of the transmission , or ( iii ) select or modify the information contain in the transmission . ( 2A ) the reference in subsection ( 2 ) to provide access to , or transmit information in , a communication network include store the information transmit so far as the storage — ( a ) be automatic , intermediate and transient , ( b ) be solely for the purpose of carry out the transmission in the network , and ( c ) be for no long than be reasonably necessary for the transmission . ( 2b ) an internet service provider do not commit an offence under section 46a by store information provide by a user for transmission in a communication network if — ( a ) the storage of the information — ( i ) be automatic , intermediate and temporary , and ( ii ) be solely for the purpose of make more efficient the onward transmission of the information to other user at their request , and ( b ) the internet service provider — ( i ) do not modify the information , ( ii ) complie with any condition attach to have access to the information , and ( iii ) on obtain actual knowledge of a matter within subsection ( 2C ) , promptly remove the information or disable access to it . ( 2C ) the matter within this subsection be that — ( a ) the information at the initial source of the transmission have be remove from the network , ( b ) access to it have be disable , or ( c ) a court or administrative authority have order the removal from the network of , or the disablement of access to , the information . ( 2D ) an internet service provider do not commit an offence under section 46a by store information provide by a user who be not act under the authority or control of the provider if — ( a ) the provider have no actual knowledge when the information be provide that it be , or contain , a CSA image - generator , or ( b ) on obtain actual knowledge that the information be , or contain , a CSA image - generator , the provider promptly remove the information or disabled access to it . " this amendment provide protection against liability for the offence of make , adapt , possess , supply or offer to supply a CSA image - generator to a provider of an internet service who act as a mere conduit for , or who cache or unknowingly host , a CSA image - generator provide by a user . amendment 62 , page 66 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( 2E ) Section 72 ( 1 ) apply in relation to an act which , if do in England and Wales , would constitute an offence under section 46A as if reference to a United Kingdom national include — ( a ) a body incorporate under the law of any part of the United Kingdom , or ( b ) an unincorporated association form under the law of any part of the United Kingdom . " this amendment provide that a body incorporate ( or an unincorporated association form ) in the United Kingdom may commit an offence relate to a child sexual abuse image - generator under section 46a of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 ( insert by this clause ) by do an act outside the United Kingdom . Amendment 63 , page 66 , line 7 , leave out " and ( 7 ) apply " and insert " apply " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 60 . Amendment 64 , page 66 , line 13 , at end insert — " ( d ) ' internet service provider ' mean a provider of — ( i ) a service that be make available by mean of the internet , or ( ii ) a service that provide access to the internet . ( e ) ' user ' , in relation to an internet service provider , mean a user of a service provide by the internet service provider ; " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 61 . amendment 65 , page 66 , line 13 , at end insert — " 46c liability for offence under section 46a commit by a body ( 1 ) this section apply where an offence under section 46a be commit by a body . ( 2 ) if the offence be commit with the consent or connivance of — ( a ) a relevant person in relation to the body , or ( b ) a person purport to act in the capacity of a relevant person in relation to the body , the person ( as well as the body ) commit the offence and be liable to be proceed against and punish accordingly . ( 3 ) in this section — ' body ' mean a body corporate , a partnership or an unincorporated association other than a partnership ; ' relevant person ' , in relation to a body , mean — ( a ) in the case of a body corporate other than one whose affair be manage by its member , a director , manager , secretary or other similar officer of the body ; ( b ) in the case of a limited liability partnership or other body corporate whose affair be manage by its member , a member who exercise function of management with respect to it ; ( c ) in the case of a limited partnership , a general partner ( within the meaning give by section 3 of the Limited Partnerships Act 1907 ) ; ( d ) in the case of any other partnership , a partner ; ( e ) in the case of an unincorporated association other than a partnership , a person who exercise function of management with respect to it . ' " this amendment provide that where a body commit an offence relate to a child sexual abuse image - generator under section 46a of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 ( insert by this clause ) , and the offence be commit with the consent or connivance of a person who manage the body ( or a partner in a partnership ) , that person be liable for the offence ( as well as the body ) . amendment 66 , page 66 , line 31 , leave out from " may " to " the " in line 32 and insert " have be make or adapt for use for create , or facilitate " . — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this amendment clarify that regulation under subsection ( 5 ) may authorise the carrying out of test for the purpose of investigate only technology that may have be make or adapt for use for create , or facilitate the creation of , CSA image . clause 59 - online facilitation of child sexual exploitation and abuse Amendment make : 68 , page 69 , line 8 , at end insert — " ( 6 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation amend Schedule 7 . ( 7 ) the Secretary of State must consult the Scottish Ministers before make regulation under subsection ( 6 ) which amend Part 2 of Schedule 7 . ( 8 ) the Secretary of State must consult the Department of Justice in Northern Ireland before make regulation under subsection ( 6 ) which amend Part 3 of Schedule 7 . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this amendment enable the Secretary of State to amend the list of child sexual exploitation and abuse offence specify for the purpose of clause 59 , subject to consultation requirement if the amendment concern offence under the law of Scotland or Northern Ireland . order , that subsection ( 4 ) of clause 59 be transfer to the end of line 8 on page 69 . — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this motion to move subsection ( 4 ) of clause 59 be consequential on Amendment 68 . clause 62 - section 59 : supplementary provision Amendment make : 69 , page 72 , line 10 , leave out " 38 " and insert " ( cause internal concealment of item for criminal purpose ) ( insert by section ( cause internal concealment of item for criminal purpose ) ) " . — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this amendment be consequential on the amendment to the Modern Slavery Act 2015 make by NC56 . clause 76 - Guidance about disclosure of information by police for purpose of prevent 15 sex offending Amendment make : 70 , page 82 , line 22 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) subsection ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) do not apply in relation to function of the Chief Constable of the British Transport Police in relation to Scotland . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this amendment mean the Secretary of State ' s power to issue guidance about disclosure of information by police for purpose of prevent sex offending do not apply in relation to the British Transport Police in Scotland . clause 91 - stalk protection order on conviction Amendments make : 71 , page 113 , line 20 , leave out " ( c ) " and insert " ( ca ) ( insert by paragraph 28 of Schedule 1 ) " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 134 . amendment 72 , page 113 , line 21 , leave out " ( can ) " and insert " ( cb ) " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 134 . amendment 73 , page 113 , line 23 , leave out paragraph ( b ) and insert — " ( b ) after paragraph ( ea ) ( insert by paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 ) insert — " ( eb ) section 364 g ( 3 ) ( breach of stalk protection order ) ; " . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this be consequential on amendment 145 . clause 94 - administer etc harmful substance ( include by spike ) Amendment propose : 19 , page 115 , line 25 , at end insert " , or ( c ) the person do so be reckless as to whether another person will be injure , aggrieve or annoyed . " — ( Joe Robertson . ) this amendment would expand the offence for administer harmful substance , include by spike , to include those who do so be reckless . question put , that the amendment be make . Jim Allister Gideon Amos Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie chown Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Andrew Snowden David Simmonds Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Gen Kitchen Kate Dearden the House divide : Ayes 189 , Noes 328 . question accordingly negative . clause 99 - dangerous , careless or inconsiderate cycling Amendments make : 74 , page 121 , line 8 , at end insert — " ( 6a ) the Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988 be amend as set out in subsection ( 6b ) to ( 9 ) . ( 6b ) in section 23 ( alternative verdict in Scotland ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 1 ) , after ' vehicle ' insert ' , or the riding of a cycle , ' ; ( b ) in subsection ( 1A ) omit ' and ' after paragraph ( b ) and after paragraph ( c ) insert — ' ( d ) an offence under section 27a of that Act ( cause death by dangerous cycling ) , and ( e ) an offence under section 27b of that Act ( cause serious injury by dangerous cycling ) . ' ( 6c ) in section 24 ( alternative verdict : general ) — ( a ) in subsection ( A1 ) ( a ) after ' vehicle ' insert ' , or the riding of a cycle , ' ; ( b ) in subsection ( A2 ) omit ' and ' after paragraph ( c ) and after that paragraph insert — ' ( can ) an offence under section 27a of that Act ( cause death by dangerous cycling ) , ( cb ) an offence under section 27b of that Act ( cause serious injury by dangerous cycling ) , and ' ; ( c ) in subsection ( 1 ) , in the table , after the entry relate to section 5a ( 1 ) ( a ) and ( 2 ) of the Road Traffic Act 1988 insert — ' section 27a ( cause death by dangerous cycling ) section 28 ( dangerous cycling ) Section 28b ( cause death by careless , or inconsiderate , cycling ) section 29 ( careless , and inconsiderate , cycling ) section 27b ( cause serious injury by dangerous cycling ) section 28 ( dangerous cycling ) section 28c ( cause serious injury by careless , or inconsiderate , cycling ) section 29 ( careless , and inconsiderate , cycling ) ' ( d ) in subsection ( 1 ) , in the table , after the entry relate to section 28 of the Road Traffic Act 1988 insert — ' section 28b ( cause death by careless , or inconsiderate , cycling ) section 29 ( careless , and inconsiderate , cycling ) section 28c ( cause serious injury by careless , or inconsiderate , cycling ) section 29 ( careless , and inconsiderate , cycling ) ' " this amendment make further provision in consequence of the new offence relate to cause death etc by dangerous cycling , enable alternative verdict to be impose of a kind correspond to the alternative verdict available for cause death or serious injury by dangerous driving . amendment 75 , page 121 , line 9 , leave out " to the Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988 " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 74 . amendment 76 , page 121 , line 40 , at end insert — " ( 10 ) the following provision be amend as follow — ( a ) in Schedule 15 to the Criminal Justice Act 2003 ( specify offence for purpose of section 244ZA and 325 ) , in Part 1 ( specify violent offence ) , after paragraph 49 insert — ' 49a an offence under section 27a of that Act ( cause death by dangerous cycling ) . ' ; ( b ) in Schedule 18b to the Criminal Justice Act 2003 ( offence relevant to public protection decision ) , in Part 2 ( statutory offence ) , in paragraph 34 after paragraph ( c ) insert — ' ( d ) section 27a ( cause death by dangerous cycling ) . ' ; ( c ) in Schedule 18 to the Sentencing Code ( specify offence for purpose of section 306 ) , in Part 1 ( specify violent offence ) , in paragraph 18 after paragraph ( c ) insert — ' ( d ) section 27a ( cause death by dangerous cycling ) . ' ; " . — ( Dame Diana Johnson ) this amendment make further provision in consequence of the new offence relate to cause death etc by dangerous cycling . clause 112 - War Memorials Amendments make : 77 , page 130 , line 38 , leave out " war " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 82 . amendment 78 , page 131 , line 3 , leave out " war " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 82 . amendment 79 , page 131 , line 4 , leave out " war " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 82 . amendment 80 , page 131 , line 5 , leave out " war " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 82 . Amendment 81 , page 131 , line 7 , leave out " war " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 82 . Amendment 82 , page 131 , line 9 , at end insert — " ( c ) a memorial or a part of a memorial specify in Part 3 of Schedule 12 . " this amendment expand the offence in clause 112 beyond war memorial to include other specify memorial . amendment 83 , page 131 , line 10 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) the Secretary of State may make regulation add a memorial , or a part of a memorial , to Schedule 12 only if the Secretary of State consider that there be a significant public interest in it be a specified memorial for the purpose of this section . " this amendment provide that the Secretary of State can only add a memorial to Schedule 12 if she consider there be a significant public interest in the memorial be specify . amendment 84 , page 131 , line 13 , at end insert — " ( 6 ) in this section ' memorial ' mean a building or other structure , or any other thing , erect or instal on land ( or in or on any building or other structure on land ) which have a commemorative purpose . ( 7 ) something have a commemorative purpose if at least one of its purpose be to commemorate — ( a ) one or more individual or animal , or a description of individual or animal ( whether live or dead and whether or not capable of be identify ) , or ( b ) an event or series of event ( such as an armed conflict ) . ( 8 ) in subsection ( 6 ) reference to a building or structure include part of a building or structure . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this amendment define " memorial " . clause 113 - Interpretation of chapter Amendments make : 85 , page 131 , line 18 , leave out from " assembly " " to the end of line 22 and insert " have the meaning give by section 16 of that Act ; " . this amendment be consequential on clause 116 , which be insert into the Bill at Committee stage and amend the definition of " public assembly " in the Public Order Act 1986 . amendment 86 , page 131 , line 23 , leave out " section 16 of the Public Order Act 1986 " and insert " that section " . — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this amendment be consequential on amendment 85 , which amend the definition of " public assembly " for the chapter . clause 115 - Powers of senior officer to impose condition on protest Amendment propose : 160 , page 133 , line 12 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) prior to impose condition under either Section 12 or 14 , the senior officer of the Police Force in question must confirm that live facial recognition will not be in use , unless a new code of practice for the use of live facial recognition surveillance in public space in England and Wales have previously be present to , and approve by , both Houses of Parliament . " — ( Lisa Smart . ) question put , that the amendment be make . Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann Davies David Davis Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Sarah Dyke Nigel Farage Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Wera Hobhouse rupa Huq Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Ben Lake Carla Lockhart James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Mike Martin Brian Mathew James McMurdock Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Susan Murray Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Adrian Ramsay Joshua Reynolds Gavin Robinson Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Martin Wrigley Claire Young Bobby Dean Tom Morrison Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Jim Allister Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Tonia Antoniazzi Edward Argar Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Victoria Atkins Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Gareth Bacon Olivia Bailey Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Steve Barclay Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Peter Bedford Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Saqib Bhatti Polly Billington Matt Bishop Bob Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Sarah Bool Jade Botterill Andrew Bowie Sureena Brackenridge Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Jonathan Brash Suella Braverman Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Alex Burghart Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn James Cartlidge Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper John Cooper Yvette Cooper Alberto Costa Deirdre Costigan Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Harriet Cross Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Gareth Davies Jonathan davy mim davy Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Charlie Dewhirst Jim Dickson Caroline Dinenage Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Iain Duncan Smith Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Alex Easton Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Luke Evans Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Peter Fortune Paul Foster Ashley Fox Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Louie French James Frith Richard Fuller Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Mark Garnier Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins John Glen Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Helen Grant Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Alison Griffiths Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Rebecca Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes John Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Sharon Hodgson Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Rachel Hopkins Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Claire Hughes Alison Hume Jeremy Hunt rupa Huq Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Bernard Jenkin Terry Jermy Dr Caroline Johnson Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Lincoln Jopp Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Alicia Kearns Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Danny Kruger Laura Kyrke - Smith Katie Lam John Lamont Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Edward Leigh Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Julian Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Julia Lopez Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Jerome Mayhew Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Navendu Mishra Andrew Mitchell Abtisam Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Perran Moon Robbie Moore Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Margaret Mullane David Mundell Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Andrew Murrison Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Jesse Norman Alex Norris Dan Norris Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Priti Patel Matthew Patrick Rebecca Paul Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Chris Philp David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Shivani Raja Andrew Ranger Jack Rankin Mike Reader David Reed Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Joe Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Andrew Rosindell Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Tulip Siddiq David Simmonds Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Greg Smith Jeff Smith Julian Smith Nick Smith Rebecca Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Euan Stainbank Blake Stephenson Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Mel Stride Graham Stringer Graham Stuart Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Bradley Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Nick Timothy Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Laura Trott Henry Tufnell Thomas Tugendhat Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Tony Vaughan Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White John Whittingdale James Wild David Williams Gavin Williamson Steve Witherden Mike Wood Sean Woodcock Jeremy Wright Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Gen Kitchen Kate Dearden the House divide : Ayes 89 , Noes 428 . question accordingly negative . clause 120 - access to driver license information Amendment make : 87 , page 142 , line 9 , at end insert — " an employee of the Law officer ' Department his Majesty ' s Attorney General for Jersey " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) the purpose of this amendment be to make employee of the Economic Crime and Confiscation Unit in Jersey authorise person . clause 127 - Confiscation Amendment make : 88 , page 148 , line 18 , at end insert — " ( 3 ) schedule ( confiscation order : Scotland ) make provision about confiscation order in Scotland . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this amendment introduce the schedule insert by NS2 . clause 128 - Proceedings for civil recovery : cost and expense Amendment make : 89 , page 149 , line 4 , leave out from " expense " to the end of line 5 and insert " — ( a ) of proceeding for a recovery order that be start before the day on which this section come into force ( the " commencement day " ) , or ( b ) that be incur in respect of a pre - commencement interim application . ( 3 ) a " pre - commencement interim application " mean an application , make by the enforcement authority before the commencement day , for a property freezing order , an interim receiving order , a prohibitory property order or an interim administration order ( include such an application make in relation to proceeding for a recovery order that be start on or after the commencement day ) . ( 4 ) term use in this section and in chapter 2 of Part 5 of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 have the same meaning in this section as they have in that chapter ( see section 316 of that Act ) . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this amendment provide that the new limit on when the court can make a cost or expense order against an enforcement authority under chapter 2 of Part 5 of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 will apply only in the case of civil recovery proceeding start after new section 288A come into force . clause 139 - power to make youth diversion order Amendments make : 90 , page 166 , line 18 , leave out " 21 " and insert " 22 " . this amendment enable an application to be make for a youth diversion order in respect of a person in England and Wales or Northern Ireland who be age 21 . amendment 91 , page 166 , line 19 , leave out " 21 " and insert " 22 " . — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this amendment enable an application to be make for a youth diversion order in respect of a person in Scotland who be age 21 . clause 141 - Content of youth diversion order Amendments make : 92 , page 168 , line 17 , leave out from " electronic " to end of line 19 and insert — " communication device , include in particular a requirement that a device may only be possess or use subject to specify condition ; " . this amendment provide that a youth diversion order may impose condition relate to the respondent ' s possession or use of electronic communication device ( the definition of which be insert by Amendment 94 ) . amendment 93 , page 168 , line 35 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) the condition specify under subsection ( 2 ) ( c ) may , in particular include condition in relation to — ( a ) the manner in which a device be use ; ( b ) the monitoring of such use ; ( c ) the granting to a constable of access to premise for the purpose of the inspection or modification of a device ; ( d ) the surrendering to a constable of a device on a temporary basis for the purpose of its inspection or modification at another place ; ( e ) the disclosure to a constable of such detail as may be specify of any device possess or use by the respondent or any other person with whom the respondent live . " this amendment set out a non - exhaustive list of the kind of condition relate to a person ' s possession or use of electronic communication device that may be specify in a youth diversion order by virtue of the provision insert by Amendment 92 . amendment 94 , page 169 , line 14 , at end insert — " ' electronic communication device ' have the meaning give by paragraph 7 ( 5 ) of Schedule 1 to the Terrorism Prevention and Investigation Measures Act 2011 ; " . — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment 92 . clause 142 - notification requirement Amendment make : 95 , page 170 , line 12 , leave out from " of " to end of line 19 and insert " — ( a ) any time when the respondent be , within the United Kingdom , lawfully detain or otherwise lawfully deprived of their liberty , or ( b ) any time when the respondent be outside the United Kingdom . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this amendment generalise the provision currently make by paragraph ( a ) to ( d ) ( period of time to be disregard in determine the period for comply with a notification requirement ) . clause 150 - appeal against youth diversion order etc . amendment make : 96 , page 174 , line 31 , leave out " or Northern Ireland " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 97 . amendment 97 , page 174 , line 32 , at end insert — " ( c ) in Northern Ireland , to the county court . " this amendment , together with Amendment 96 , provide that an appeal against a decision make in relation to a youth diversion order in Northern Ireland be to be make to the county court ( instead of the Crown Court ) . amendment 98 , page 174 , line 33 , leave out subsection ( 3 ) and insert — " ( 3 ) where in England and Wales the Crown Court make a decision on an appeal under subsection ( 1 ) , any person who be a party to the appeal may appeal against that decision to the Court of Appeal . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this be a draft change make in light of 96 . clause 151 - offense of breach youth diversion order Amendments make : 99 , page 175 , line 24 , leave out from " person " to end of line 25 and insert " — " ( a ) to fail , without reasonable excuse , to comply with that section , or ( b ) in purport compliance with that section , to notify to the police any information which the person know to be false . " this amendment make fail , without reasonable excuse , to comply with clause 142 ( youth diversion order : notification requirement ) an offence distinct from the offence under clause 151 ( 1 ) ( failure to comply with a youth diversion order ) . amendment 100 , page 175 , line 40 , at end insert — " ( 5a ) a person commit an offence under subsection ( 3 ) ( a ) on the day on which the person first fail , without reasonable excuse , to comply with section 142 . ( 5b ) the person continue to commit the offence throughout any period during which the failure continue . ( 5c ) but the person may not be prosecute more than once in respect of the same failure . " this amendment provide that , where a person no long have a reasonable excuse for fail to comply with a notification requirement under clause 142 but continue to fail to comply with the requirement , the person commit an offence under clause 151 ( 3 ) ( a ) ( insert by Amendment 99 ) . amendment 101 , page 176 , line 5 , at end insert — " ( 7 ) in section 80 ( 3 ) of the Sentencing Code ( list of circumstance where an order for conditional discharge be not available ) , after paragraph ( g ) ( insert by section 48 ( 5 ) of this Act ) insert — ' ( h ) section 151 ( 5 ) of that Act ( breach of youth diversion order ) . ' " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this amendment insert an amendment consequential on the provision make by subsection ( 5 ) . schedule 1 - youth injunction , housing injunction and consequential amendment Amendment make : 134 , page 199 , line 5 , at end insert — " Sentencing Code 28 in section 80 ( 3 ) of the Sentencing Code ( list of circumstance where an order for conditional discharge be not available ) , after paragraph ( c ) insert — ' ( ca ) section I1 ( 4 ) of the Anti - social Behaviour , Crime and Policing Act 2014 ( breach of respect order ) ; ' . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this amendment insert an amendment consequential on the provision insert by clause 1 ( 2 ) . schedule 5 - CCE prevention order on conviction Amendments make : 135 , page 210 , line 13 , leave out from " in " to end of line 15 and insert — " child criminal exploitation or in conduct associate with child criminal exploitation , or " . see the statement for amendment 39 . amendment 136 , page 210 , leave out line 18 to 32 and insert — " ( 4 ) the second condition be that the court consider that there be a risk that the offender will engage in child criminal exploitation . ( 5 ) the third condition be that the court consider that it be necessary to make the order to prevent the offender from engage , or reduce the likelihood of the offender engage , in child criminal exploitation . ( 6 ) in subsection ( 3 ) — ( a ) the reference to engage in anything include engage in it before ( as well as after ) the time when Schedule 5 to the Crime and Policing Act 2025 come into force ; ( b ) the reference to an offence include an offence commit before ( as well as after ) that time . ( 7 ) in this chapter — ( a ) a reference to a person ' engage in child criminal exploitation ' be to the person do anything that constitute an offence , in England and Wales , under section 38 of the Crime and Policing Act 2025 ; ( b ) a reference to a person ' engage in conduct associate with child criminal exploitation ' be to the person do anything associate with the doing of anything that constitute such an offence . " see the statement for amendment 39 . amendment 137 , page 211 , line 7 , leave out from " of " to end of line 8 and insert — " prevent the offender from engage , or reduce the likelihood of the offender engage , in child criminal exploitation . " see the statement for amendment 39 . Amendment 138 , page 211 , line 22 , at end insert — " ( 5A ) where — ( a ) the offender have be remand in or commit to custody by an order of a court , or ( b ) a custodial sentence have be impose on the offender or the offender be serve or otherwise subject to a such a sentence , a CCE prevention order may provide that it do not take effect until the offender be release from custody or cease to be subject to a custodial sentence . " this amendment enable the court to provide that a CCE prevention order take effect on the offender be release from custody or cease to be subject to a custodial sentence . amendment 139 , page 212 , leave out line 28 to 32 and insert — " ( a ) lawfully detain or otherwise lawfully deprived of their liberty , in the United Kingdom , or " . this amendment generalise the provision currently make by paragraph ( a ) to ( c ) of insert section 358C ( 8 ) ( period to be disregard ) . amendment 140 , page 214 , line 6 , leave out from " to " to end of line 8 and insert — " prevent the offender from engage , or reduce the likelihood of the offender engage , in child criminal exploitation . " see the statement for amendment 39 . amendment 141 , page 215 , leave out line 24 to 26 and insert — " ( 2 ) the person commit an offence if — ( a ) without reasonable excuse , they fail to comply with that section , or ( b ) in purport compliance with that section , they notify to the police any information which they know to be false . " this amendment expand the offence under insert section 358h so as to cover a failure to comply with section 358C ( notification requirement ) . amendment 142 , page 215 , line 32 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) a person commit an offence under subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) on the day on which they first fail , without reasonable excuse , to comply with section 358C . ( 5 ) the person continue to commit the offence throughout any period during which the failure continue . ( 6 ) but the person may not be prosecute more than once in respect of the same failure . ( 7 ) section 358 g ( 4 ) apply for the purpose of this section . " this amendment provide that a failure to comply with insert section 358C ( notification requirement ) be a continue offence . it also make provision about how the existence and term of the order be prove in proceeding for an offence under insert section 358H . amendment 143 , page 215 , line 32 , at end insert — " 358HA Special measure for witness ( 1 ) chapter 1 of Part 2 of the Youth Justice and Criminal Evidence Act 1999 ( special measure direction in the case of vulnerable and intimidate witness ) apply to relevant proceeding under this chapter as it apply to criminal proceeding , but with — ( a ) the omission of section 17 ( 4 ) to ( 7 ) , 21 ( 4c ) ( e ) , 22a , 27 ( 10 ) and 32 of that Act ( which make provision appropriate only in the context of criminal proceeding ) , and ( b ) any other necessary modification . ( 2 ) rule of court make under or for the purpose of chapter 1 of Part 2 of that Act apply to relevant proceeding under this chapter — ( a ) to the extent provide by rule of court , and ( b ) subject to any modification provide by rule of court . ( 3 ) section 47 of that Act ( restriction on report special measure direction etc ) apply with any necessary modification — ( a ) to a direction under section 19 of that Act as apply by this section ; ( b ) to a direction discharge or vary such a direction . section 49 and 51 of that Act ( offence ) apply accordingly . ( 4 ) in this section " relevant proceeding under this chapter " mean any proceeding under this chapter except proceeding relate to an offence under section 358 g or 358h . " this amendment apply the special measure direction provision in the Youth Justice and Criminal Evidence Act 1999 to civil proceeding under the new chapter 2A ( which be to be insert into Part 11 of the Sentencing Code ) . amendment 144 , page 216 , leave out line 1 to 10 and insert — " ' engage in child criminal exploitation ' have the meaning give by section 358A ( and related expression be to be construe accordingly ) . " see the statement for amendment 39 . amendment 145 , page 216 , line 21 , at end insert — " 2 in section 80 ( 3 ) of the Sentencing Code ( list of circumstance where an order for conditional discharge be not available ) after paragraph ( e ) insert — ' ( ea ) section 358 g ( 3 ) ( breach of CCE prevention order ) ; ' . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this amendment insert an amendment consequential on the provision make by paragraph 1 . schedule 7 - online facilitation of child sexual exploitation and abuse : specify offence Amendments make : 146 , page 223 , line 14 , at end insert — " ( aa ) section 9 and 10 of the Criminal Law ( Consolidation ) ( Scotland ) Act 1995 ( permit girl to use premise for intercourse and seduction , prostitution , etc . , of girl under 16 ) ; " . this amendment add further scottish offence to the list of child sexual exploitation and abuse offence specify for the purpose of clause 59 . amendment 147 , page 223 , line 22 , at end insert — " 5A an offence under any of the follow provision of the Criminal Law ( Consolidation ) ( Scotland ) Act 1995 where the victim , or intend victim , be age under 18 — ( a ) section 1 ( incest ) ; ( b ) section 2 ( intercourse with step - child ) ; ( c ) section 7 ( procure ) . " this amendment add further scottish offence to the list of child sexual exploitation and abuse offence specify for the purpose of clause 59 . amendment 148 , page 223 , line 27 , at end insert — " 6a an offence under section 1 of the Human Trafficking and Exploitation ( Scotland ) Act 2015 ( asp 12 ) ( human trafficking ) against a person age under 18 , commit with a view to exploitation that consist of or include behaviour within section 3 ( 3 ) to ( 5 ) of that Act ( prostitution and sexual exploitation ) . " this amendment add a further scottish offence to the list of child sexual exploitation and abuse offence specify for the purpose of clause 59 . amendment 149 , page 223 , line 28 , leave out " 5 or 6 " and insert " 5 , 5a , 6 or 6a " . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 147 and 148 . amendment 150 , page 223 , line 30 , leave out " 5 or 6 " and insert " 5 , 5a , 6 or 6a " . this amendment be consequential on Amendments 147 and 148 . Amendment 151 , page 223 , line 32 , leave out " 5 or 6 " and insert " 5 , 5a , 6 or 6a " . — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendments 147 and 148 . schedule 9 - offence relate to intimate photograph or film and voyeurism Amendments make : 152 , page 231 , line 36 , at end insert — " 5A in section 66 g ( definition for purpose of section 66e and 66F ) , omit subsection ( 8 ) . " this amendment remove a definition of " the maximum term for summary offence " which be no long need because the term will be define by section 79 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 as amend by para . 10 of schedule 9 . section 66 g be insert by the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill . amendment 153 , page 234 , line 23 , leave out " in the Armed Forces Act 2006 " and insert — " ( 1 ) the Armed Forces Act 2006 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) " this amendment be consequential on amendment 154 . amendment 154 , page 234 , line 35 , at end insert — " ( 3 ) in section 177DA ( treatment of purport intimate image for purpose of deprivation order ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 1 ) , for ' this section ' substitute ' subsection ( 2 ) ' ; ( b ) after subsection ( 2 ) insert — ' ( 3 ) subsection ( 4 ) apply where a person commit an offence under section 42 as respect which the correspond offence under the law of England and Wales be an offence under section 66f of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 ( request the creation of purport intimate image of adult ) . ( 4 ) a purport intimate image which be connect with the offence , and anything contain it , be to be regard for the purpose of 177C ( 3 ) ( and section 94a ( 3 ) ( b ) ( ii ) ) as use for the purpose of commit the offence ( include where it be commit by aid , abet , counsel or procure ) . ( 5 ) a purport intimate image be connect with the offence if — ( a ) it appear to be of a person who be the subject of the request to which the offence relate ( whether or not it be what be request ) , and ( b ) it be in the offender ' s possession , or under the offender ' s control , as a result of that request . ' " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this amendment provide that a deprivation order can be make under section 177DA of the Armed Forces Act in connection with an offence under section 66f of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 ( request the creation of purport intimate image of adult ) . both those section be insert by the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill . schedule 12 - specify war memorial Amendment make : 155 , page 254 , line 9 , at end insert — " part 3 - other memorial 1 Statue of Sir Winston Churchill , Parliament Square , London " . — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this amendment make the statue of Sir Winston Churchill in Parliament Square a specify memorial for the purpose of clause 112 . schedule 15 - confiscation order : England and Wales Amendment make : 156 , page 320 , line 18 , at end insert — " part 13 - confiscation order make under save legislation : provisional discharge provisional discharge of confiscation order make under save legislation 54 ( 1 ) this paragraph apply if — ( a ) an amount remain to be pay under a confiscation order make under — ( i ) section 1 of the Drug Trafficking Offences Act 1986 , ( ii ) section 71 of the Criminal Justice Act 1988 , or ( iii ) section 2 of the Drug Trafficking Act 1994 , and ( b ) the relevant two - year period have end . ( 2 ) the Crown Court may , of its own motion or on an application make by a person list in sub - paragraph ( 3 ) , discharge the confiscation order on a provisional basis if the court consider that it be in the interest of justice to do so . ( 3 ) the person be — ( a ) the prosecutor ; ( b ) the designate officer for a magistrate ' court ; ( c ) a receiver appoint under — ( i ) section 11 of the Drug Trafficking Offences Act 1986 , in the case of a confiscation order make under section 1 of that Act ; ( ii ) section 80 of the Criminal Justice Act 1988 , in the case of a confiscation order make under section 71 of that Act ; ( iii ) section 29 of the Drug Trafficking Act 1994 , in the case of a confiscation order make under section 2 of that Act . ( 4 ) in decide whether it be in the interest of justice to discharge a confiscation order on a provisional basis the court must , in particular , take into account — ( a ) any amount that the defendant have already pay under the confiscation order ; ( b ) the extent to which the amount that remain to be pay under the order represent interest payable in respect of the order ; ( c ) any step that have already be take in relation to the enforcement of the order ; ( d ) the extent to which there be reasonable step ( or far reasonable step ) that could be take in relation to the enforcement of the order ; ( e ) the amount that the court consider would be recover if all such reasonable step ( or far reasonable step ) be to be take . ( 5 ) where an application under this paragraph be refuse , a further application in relation to the confiscation order concern may only be make — ( a ) after the end of the period of two year begin with the date of the refusal , or ( b ) before the end of that period , with the leave of the court . ( 6 ) there be no right of appeal against a decision of the court under this paragraph to discharge , or not to discharge , a confiscation order on a provisional basis . ( 7 ) in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , the " relevant two - year period " mean the period of two year begin with — ( a ) the day on which the confiscation order be make , or ( b ) in a case where the order have be varied under the Drug Trafficking Offences Act 1986 , Part 6 of the Criminal Justice Act 1998 or , as the case may be , Part 1 of the Drug Trafficking Act 1994 , the day on which the order be varied . effect of provisional discharge under paragraph 54 and revocation of discharge 55 ( 1 ) this paragraph apply where a confiscation order have be discharge under paragraph 54 on a provisional basis . ( 2 ) the order be to be treat as satisfied , and accordingly the proceeding against the defendant be to be treat as have conclude for the purpose of the Drug Trafficking Offences Act 1986 , the Criminal Justice Act 1988 or , as the case may be , the Drug Trafficking Act 1994 , subject to the rest of this paragraph . ( 3 ) the provisional discharge of the order do not prevent the making of an application in respect of the order under — ( a ) section 14 of the Drug Trafficking Offences Act 1986 , in the case of a confiscation order make under section 1 of that Act ; ( b ) section 74c or 83 of the Criminal Justice Act 1988 , in the case of a confiscation order make under section 71 of that Act ; ( c ) section 15 , 16 or 17 of the Drug Trafficking Act 1994 , in the case of a confiscation order make under section 2 of that Act . ( 4 ) where , on an application under any of those provision , the court vary the order , the court may also revoke the provisional discharge of the order . ( 5 ) the Crown Court may , on an application make by a person list in sub - paragraph ( 6 ) , revoke the provisional discharge of the order if the court consider that it be in the interest of justice to do so . ( 6 ) the person be — ( a ) the prosecutor ; ( b ) a receiver appoint under — ( i ) section 11 of the Drug Trafficking Offences Act 1986 , in the case of a confiscation order make under section 1 of that Act ; ( ii ) section 80 of the Criminal Justice Act 1988 , in the case of a confiscation order make under section 71 of that Act ; ( iii ) section 29 of the Drug Trafficking Act 1994 , in the case of a confiscation order make under section 2 of that Act . ( 7 ) in decide whether it be in the interest of justice to revoke the provisional discharge of a confiscation order the court must , in particular , take into account the matter list in paragraph 54 ( 4 ) . ( 8 ) where the court revoke the provisional discharge of a confiscation order under this paragraph — ( a ) the order be , from the time of the revocation , no long to be treat as satisfied , and ( b ) accordingly — ( i ) from that time the proceeding against the defendant be to be treat as not have be conclude , and ( ii ) any interest which be payable in respect of the order for a period before the provisional discharge of the order but which have not be pay at the time of the provisional discharge become payable . ( 9 ) there be no right of appeal against a decision of the court under this paragraph to revoke , or not to revoke , the provisional discharge of a confiscation order . time for payment where provisional discharge of order be revoke 56 ( 1 ) this paragraph apply where a court revoke the provisional discharge of a confiscation order — ( a ) under paragraph 55 ( 4 ) on an application under section 74c of the Criminal Justice Act 1988 or section 15 or 16 of the Drug Trafficking Act 1994 , or ( b ) under paragraph 55 ( 5 ) . ( 2 ) if the court be satisfied that the defendant be unable to pay the full amount order to be pay under the order on the day on which the provisional discharge be revoke , the court may make an order require whatever can not be pay on that day to be pay — ( a ) in a specified period , or ( b ) in specified period each of which relate to a specified amount . ( 3 ) a specify period — ( a ) must start with the day on which the provisional discharge be revoke , and ( b ) must not exceed three month . ( 4 ) if — ( a ) within any specify period the defendant apply to the relevant court for that period to be extend , and ( b ) the relevant court be satisfied that , despite have make all reasonable effort , the defendant be unable to pay the amount to which the specify period relate within that period , the court may make an order extend the period ( for all or any part or part of the amount in question ) . ( 5 ) " the relevant court " mean — ( a ) in a case where the Crown Court revoke the provisional discharge of the order , the Crown Court ; ( b ) in a case where a magistrate ' court revoke the provisional discharge of the order , a magistrate ' court . ( 6 ) an extended period — ( a ) must start with the day on which the provisional discharge be revoke , and ( b ) must not exceed six month . ( 7 ) an order under sub - paragraph ( 4 ) — ( a ) may be make after the end of the specify period to which it relate , but ( b ) must not be make after the end of the period of six month start with the day on which the provisional discharge be revoke . ( 8 ) Periods specify or extend under this paragraph must be such that , where the court believe that a defendant will by a particular day be able — ( a ) to pay the amount remain to be pay , or ( b ) to pay an amount towards what remain to be pay , that amount be require to be pay no later than that day . ( 9 ) if — ( a ) an application have be make under sub - paragraph ( 4 ) for a specified period to be extend , ( b ) the application have not be determine by the court , and ( c ) the period of six month start with the day on which the provisional discharge be revoke have not end , the amount on which interest be payable in respect of the order do not include the amount to which the specify period relate . ( 10 ) the court must not make an order under sub - paragraph ( 2 ) or ( 4 ) unless it give the prosecutor an opportunity to make representation . financial status order 57 ( 1 ) this paragraph apply where — ( a ) the Crown Court have decide of its own motion to consider whether to discharge a confiscation order on a provisional basis , ( b ) an application have be make under paragraph 54 or 55 , or ( c ) the court have discharge a confiscation order on a provisional basis and an application have be make under — ( i ) section 14 of the Drug Trafficking Offences Act 1986 , in the case of a confiscation order make under section 1 of that Act ; ( ii ) section 74c or 83 of the Criminal Justice Act 1988 , in the case of a confiscation order make under section 71 of that Act ; ( iii ) section 15 , 16 or 17 of the Drug Trafficking Act 1994 , in the case of a confiscation order make under section 2 of that Act . ( 2 ) the relevant court may order the defendant to give the court , before the end of the period specify in the order — ( a ) any information about the defendant ' s asset and other financial circumstance , and ( b ) any documentary or other evidence in support of that information , that the court may require in connection with the exercise of its function under paragraph 54 or 55 . ( 3 ) " the relevant court " mean — ( a ) where this paragraph apply as a result of sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( a ) or ( b ) , the Crown Court ; ( b ) where this paragraph apply as a result of sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( c ) , the court to which the application mention in that sub - paragraph be make . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this amendment enable a court , where it consider that it be in the interest of justice to do so , to discharge on a provisional basis a confiscation order make under legislation that pre - date the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 and to revoke such a provisional discharge . we now move on to the second part of today ' s proceeding , on new clause and amendment relate to abortion . before I call Tonia Antoniazzi to move new clause 1 , I inform the House that new clause 20 in the name of Stella Creasy , which will be debate as part of this group , will fall if the House agree to new clause 1 . New Clause 1 - removal of woman from the criminal law relate to abortion " for the purpose of the law relate to abortion , include section 58 and 59 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 and the Infant Life ( Preservation ) Act 1929 , no offence be commit by a woman act in relation to her own pregnancy . " — ( Tonia Antoniazzi . ) this new clause would disapply exist criminal law relate to abortion from woman act in relation to her own pregnancy at any gestation , remove the threat of investigation , arrest , prosecution , or imprisonment . it would not change any law regard the provision of abortion service within a healthcare setting , include but not limit to the time limit , telemedicine , the ground for abortion , or the requirement for two doctor ' approval . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the following : new clause 20 — application of criminal law of England and Wales to abortion ( no . 2 ) — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must ensure that the recommendation in paragraph 85 and 86 of the CEDAW report be implement in respect of England and Wales . ( 2 ) Sections 58 , 59 and 60 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 be repeal under the law of England and Wales . ( 3 ) the Infant Life Preservation Act 1929 be repeal . ( 4 ) no investigation may be carry out , and no criminal proceeding may be bring or continue , in respect of an offence under those section of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 or under the Infant Life Preservation Act 1929 under the law of England and Wales ( whenever commit ) . ( 5 ) the Abortion Act 1967 be amend as follow . ( 6 ) in section 6 remove , ' section 58 and 59 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 , and ' . ( 7 ) notwithstanding the repeal of the criminal law relate to abortion , the provision of section 1 to 4 of the Abortion Act 1967 remain in place except that that section 1 be amend so as to remove the word ' a person shall not be guilty of an offence under the law relate to abortion when ' and replace with ' a pregnancy can only be terminate when ' . ( 8 ) the Secretary of State must ( subject to subsection ( 9 ) ) by regulation make whatever other change to the criminal law of England and Wales appear to the Secretary of State to be necessary or appropriate for the purpose of comply with subsection ( 1 ) . ( 9 ) but the duty under subsection ( 8 ) must not be carry out so as to — ( a ) amend this section , ( b ) reduce access to abortion service for woman in England and Wales in comparison with access when this section come into force , or ( c ) amend section 1 of the Abortion Act 1967 ( medical termination of pregnancy ) . ( 10 ) the Secretary of State must carry out the duty impose by this section expeditiously , recognise the importance of do so for protect the human right of woman in England and Wales . ( 11 ) in carry out the duty impose by this section the Secretary of State must have regard in particular to the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of all form of Discrimination against Women and the International Covenant on Economic , Social and Cultural Rights in consider what constitute the right of woman to sexual and reproductive health and to gender equality . ( 12 ) the Secretary of State may ( subject to subsection ( 9 ) ) by regulation make any provision that appear to the Secretary of State to be appropriate in view of subsection ( 2 ) or ( 3 ) . ( 13 ) for the purpose of this section — ( a ) ' the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of all form of Discrimination against Women ' or ' the Convention on the Elimination of all form of Discrimination against Women ' mean the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of all form of Discrimination against Women , adopt by United Nations General Assembly resolution 34 / 180 , 18 December 1979 ; ( b ) ' the International Covenant on Economic , Social and Cultural Rights ' mean the International Covenant on Economic , Social and Cultural Rights 1966 , adopt by United Nations General Assembly resolution 2200A ( XXI ) , 16 December 1966 ; and ( c ) ' the CEDAW report ' mean the Report of the Inquiry concern the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland under article 8 of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Elimination of all form of Discrimination against Women ( CEDAW / C / op . 8 / GBR / 1 ) publish on 6 March 2018 . " new clause 106 — abortion : requirement for in - person consultation — " in section 1 ( 3d ) of the Abortion Act 1967 , omit ' , by telephone or by electronic mean ' . " this new clause would mean that a pregnant woman would need to have an in - person consultation before lawfully be prescribe medicine for the termination of a pregnancy . amendment 17 , in clause 167 , page 186 , line 36 , leave out " or 112 " and insert — " 112 or [ application of criminal law of England and Wales to abortion Amendment 2 ] " . amendment 1 , in clause 170 , page 189 , line 22 , after subsection ( 2 ) ( c ) insert — " ( ca ) section [ Removal of woman from the criminal law relate to abortion ] . " this amendment be conditional on the introduction of NC1 . it would bring the new law into force on the day the Act be pass . amendment 18 , page 189 , line 22 , at end insert — " ( can ) [ application of criminal law of England and Wales to abortion no . 2 ] ; " . nearly five year ago , have suffer a rare complication in her abortion treatment , Nicola Packer lie down in shock , have just deliver a foetus at home . later arrive at hospital , bleed and utterly traumatise , she have no idea that her ordeal be about to get profoundly bad and that her life would be tear apart . recover from surgery , Nicola be take from her hospital bed by uniformed police officer in a police van and arrest for illegal abortion offence . in custody , her computer and phone be seize , and she be deny timely access to vital anti - clot medication . what follow be a four - and - a - half year pursuit by the police and the Crown Prosecution Service that completely overshadow Nicola ' s life , culminate in she be force to endure the indignity and turmoil of a trial . she spend every penny she have fund her defence . the most private detail of her life be publicly air , and she have to relive the trauma in front of a jury — all that ultimately to be clear and find not guilty . nicola ' s story be deplorable , but there be many other . Laura , a young mother and university student , be criminalise for an abortion force on she by an abusive partner . he coerce she into take abortion pill buy illegally online , rather than go to a doctor . Laura describe his violent reaction to her pregnancy : " he grab hold of I , push I against the wall , be just scream in my face … pull my hair and bang my head off the wall " . Laura nearly die from blood loss as a result of the illicit medication he have coerce she into taking . when she be arrest , her partner threaten to kill she if she tell anyone of his involvement . Laura be jail for two year ; the partner be never investigate by the police . another woman call an ambulance moment after give birth prematurely , but instead of help , seven police officer arrive and search her bin . meanwhile , she try to resuscitate her baby unassiste , who be still attach to she by the umbilical cord . while the baby be in intensive care , she be deny contact ; she have to express breast milk and pass it through a door . she test negative for abortion medication — she have never take it . rather , she have go into spontaneous labour , as she have previously with her other child . she remain under investigation for a year . one of my constituent discover that she be pregnant at seven month — she have no symptom . she be tell that she be too late for an abortion . she have see report of woman be investigate after miscarriage or stillbirth base on their have previously be to an abortion clinic . she spend the rest of her pregnancy terrify that she would lose the baby and be accuse of break the law . when labour begin , she even delay seek medical help out of fear . each one of these case be a travesty enable by our outdated abortion law . although abortion be available in England and Wales under condition set by the Abortion Act 1967 , the law underpin it , which date back to 1861 — the Offences against the Person Act — mean that outside those condition , abortion remain a criminal offence carry a maximum life sentence . originally pass by an all - male Parliament elect by man alone , this victorian law be increasingly use against vulnerable woman and girl . since 2020 , more than 100 woman have be criminally investigate , six have face court , and one have be send to prison . the woman affect be often acutely vulnerable . victim of domestic abuse and violence , human trafficking and sexual exploitation ; girl under the age of 18 ; and woman who have suffer miscarriage or stillbirth , or have give birth prematurely , have face invasive and prolonged criminal investigation that cause long - term harm . can the hon . Lady advise we whether there be any other area of law govern the taking of life in which the guardrail of the criminal law have be remove ? that be what new clause 1 propose when it come to the voiceless child . be there no thought of protection for they ? the hon . and learn Member will know that the Abortion Act be not go to be amend . new clause 1 will only take woman out of the criminal justice system because they be vulnerable and they need our help . I have say it before , and I will say it again : just what public interest be be serve in the case I have describe ? this be not justice ; it be cruelty , and it have to end . back by 180 cross - party mps and 50 organisation , and building on year of work by Dame Diana Johnson , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North and Cottingham — Order . I remind the hon . member that she should not have refer to the Minister by name . I do apologise , Madam Deputy Speaker . every day be a school day . my amendment , new clause 1 , would disapply the criminal law relate to abortion for woman act in relation to their own pregnancy . NC1 be a narrow , targeted measure that do not change how abortion service be provide , nor the rule set by the 1967 Abortion Act . the 24 - week limit remain ; abortion will still require the approval and signature of two doctor ; and woman will still have to meet the ground lay out in the Act . will the hon . Lady give way ? not at the moment , but I will later . Healthcare professional act outside the law and abusive partner use violence or poisoning to end a pregnancy would still be criminalise , as they be now . there have be a cacophony of misinformation regard new clause 1 , so let we be clear : if it pass , it would still be illegal for medical professional to provide abortion after 24 week , but woman would no long face prosecution . nearly 99 % of abortion happen prior to 20 week , and those need later care often face extreme circumstance such as abuse , trafficking or serious foetal anomaly . the reality be that no woman wake up 24 or more week pregnant and suddenly decide to end her own pregnancy outside a hospital or clinic , with no medical support , but some woman in desperate circumstance make choice that many of we would struggle to understand . new clause 1 be about recognise that such woman need care and support , not criminalisation . as member will know , much of the work that I do be drive by the plight of highly vulnerable woman and by sex - base right , which be why I table new clause 1 . I have profound concern about new clause 106 , table by the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) , which would remove the ability of woman to have a consultation either on the phone or via electronic mean , row back on the progress make in 2022 and again require woman to attend a face - to - face appointment before access care . introduce in 2020 , telemedical abortion care represent a revolution for woman and access to abortion care in this country . we lead the world : evidence gather in the UK help woman in some of the most restrictive jurisdiction , include the United States , to access abortion remotely . here , the large study on abortion care in the world find that telemedicine be safe and effective , and reduce waiting time . the fact be that half the woman access abortion in England and Wales now use telemedical care . give the increase in demand for care since the pandemic , there simply be not the capacity in the NHS or clinic to force these woman to attend face - to - face consultation . new clause 106 would have a devastating effect on abortion access in this country , delay or deny care for woman with no clinical evidence to support it . what concern I most about the new clause , however , be the claim that make abortion hard to access will help woman in abusive relationship . let I quote from a briefing provide by anti - violence against woman and girl group include end violence against Women , Rape Crisis , Women ' s aid , Solace Women ' s aid and Karma Nirvana , which contact member before the vote in 2022 . they say : " the argument that telemedicine facilitate reproductive coercion originate with anti - abortion group , not anti - VAWG group . the priority for such group be restrict abortion access , not address coercion and abuse . force woman to carry an unwanted pregnancy to term do not solve domestic abuse . " I could not agree more . my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) , who table new clause 20 , have a terrible experience today : she be unable to walk into Parliament because of the abuse that she be receive outside and the picture that be be show . that be unforgivable , and I want to extend the hand of friendship to she and make it clear that we be not in this place to take such abuse . while my hon . friend and I share an interest in remove woman from the criminal law relate to abortion , new clause 20 be much broad in term of the scope of its propose change to the well - establish legal framework that underpin the provision of abortion service . while I entirely agree with she that abortion law need wide reform , the sector have emphasise its concern about new clause 20 and the ramification that it pose for the ongoing provision of abortion service in England and Wales . the current settlement , while complex , ensure that abortion be accessible to the vast majority of woman and girl , and I think that those in the sector should be listen to , as expert who function within it to provide more than 250 , 000 abortion every year . more comprehensive reform of abortion law be need , but the right way to do that be through a future Bill , with considerable collaboration between provider , medical body and parliamentarian work together to secure the change that be need . that be what a change of this magnitude would require . my friend the hon . Lady — I hope she do not mind if I refer to she as a friend — be make a clear point . she have draw attention to a great deal of confusion and misrepresentation in respect of what she be try to achieve in her new clause , and she have share some heartrende example . however , she have just say something with which I think the whole House would agree . in recent year , we have see our legislative approach to abortion effectively as place ornament on a legislative Christmas tree , tack measure on to Bills in a very ad hoc way . I think she be actually right : this be a serious issue — I say this as a husband and as a father of three daughter — that require serious consideration in a Public Bill Committee , with evidence from all side and so on . do she agree with I that , notwithstanding her laudable aim and heartfelt sincerity , it would be much well if these complex issue be deal with in a free - stand Bill , rather than by amendment to a Crime and Policing Bill ? I thank my friend the hon . member for his intervention , and I hear he make that point in an early intervention on the Minister . the fact be that new clause 1 would take woman out of the criminal justice system , and that be what have to happen and have to change now . there be no way that these woman should be face what they be face . whether or not we agree on this issue , and this be why I have not support new clause 20 , a long debate on this issue be need . however , all that this new clause seek to do be take woman out of the criminal justice system now , and give they the support and help they need . the hon . Lady and I have be friend for all the time we have be here . we have time last night to chat about these thing , and we both know each other ' s point of view . may I ask she to cast her mind back to telemedicine , if she do not mind ? it be say that telemedicine be need to protect vulnerable woman who be unable to attend a clinical setting , but the risk be surely great . woman may be coerce into abortion against their will with an abuser lurking in the background of a phone call , and pill can fall into the wrong hand , as we all know . do she accept that , with all the protection she be put forward to safeguard woman , the one thing that do not seem to be part of this process be the unborn baby , and that concern I greatly ? I thank the hon . member for that contribution , and for the recognition that , while our voice and opinion differ across the House , we have respect for each other . I do not see this as a discussion about the Abortion Act or raise any issue relate to it , because this be the Crime and Policing Bill , and the new clause be only about ensure that vulnerable woman in those situation have the right help and support . that be the whole purpose of it ; it be not about the issue that he would like to discuss now . I absolutely recognise that my hon . friend be come from the right place on her amendment . I totally agree with she that a reform be need , and she have raise some very powerful case . she describe this as a very narrow change , but in actual fact she be ask we to ensure not just that in such case the police should act differently , but that in every case ever no woman can ever be prosecute . it be a hell of a leap for we to take , when this remain against the law , for she to say that these woman , whatever the circumstance , must never be prosecute . that be why I do not think I will be support the amendment , despite recognise that she be right that such a reform be need . can she say anything to explain why there must never be any prosecution ever ? yes . I thank my hon . friend for his intervention , because the truth be that we have to flip this around . no woman , or anybody , be deter . this be not a deterrent . the criminal law do not work as a deterrent . these woman be desperate and they need help . they may be coerce , or it could be just a stillbirth — it could be — but prosecution be not go to help the woman at any point . I agree with my hon . friend that these woman need help , but I can not imagine a more lonely and difficult experience than be a woman who have an abortion under the circumstance she be outline , and I think that be a problem with new clause 1 . would it not actually make abortion much more dangerous and much more lonely by simply decriminalise the woman , but not those who may be there to give support ? I can not think of any other time when someone might be more in need of support . I do not know of any woman who have have an abortion , at any stage , and take it lightly . any abortion at any stage of your pregnancy be a life - change experience . that be why I do not take this lightly . that be why , whether it be six week , 10 week , 15 week or whatever , and whether it be in term or out of term , that experience of child loss , whether it be plan or not , stay with a woman for the rest of her life . I do not take this easily , stand up here with the abuse we have have outside this Chamber . this be a serious issue and these be the woman who need the help . they need that help and they need it now . we can not continue in this way . this very simple amendment to the Crime and Policing Bill would take the woman out of that situation , and that be what I be seek to achieve . if a woman go all the way through to full term and then decide it be an inconvenience , do the hon . Lady still think that she should be cover by this legal protection ? wow . I would like to know if the hon . Member actually know of any woman who would put themselves in that situation if there be not coercion or control of some kind . obviously , a lot of research and conversation have be go on for year on this issue . I understand that people across the House have deeply hold religious view — indeed , I be bring up a Catholic . my issue , from what I have be tell , be this : how would that woman go about it ? if it be by take abortion pill , she would have a baby . paint a picture of kill an unborn child in that way do not help to serve what we be do in this place . we need to protect the woman . [ interruption . ] I need to make progress . in the meantime , doctor , nurse , midwife , medical body , abortion provider and parliamentarian have come together to try to end the criminal prosecution of woman on suspicion of illegal abortion offence . this be a specific and urgent problem , and one that be simple to fix . new clause 1 be the only amendment that would protect woman currently at risk of prosecution and protect abortion service . that be why it have the explicit backing of every abortion provider and every organisation that represent abortion provider in England and Wales . the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists , the Royal College of Midwives , the Royal College of General Practitioners , the Royal College of Psychiatrists and the Royal College of Nursing also endorse it . numerous violence against woman and girl group , include the end violence against Women and Girls Coalition , Refuge , Southall Black Sisters , Rape Crisis England and Wales , Imkaan , and the Centre for Women ' s Justice , be also behind new clause 1 . the public overwhelmingly support this change too . I implore colleague not to lose sight of the moral imperative here : namely , vulnerable woman be drag from hospital bed to police cell on suspicion of end their own pregnancy . this be urgent . we know that multiple woman be still in the system await a decision , accuse of break this law . they can not afford to wait . we have a once - in - a - generation opportunity to put an end to this in a simple and secure manner . this be the right change at the right time , so I implore colleague who want to protect woman and abortion service to vote for new clause 1 . let we ensure that not a single desperate woman be ever again subject to traumatic criminal investigation at the bad moment of their life . there must be no more Lauras . there must be no more Nicola Packers . I rise to speak in support of new clause 106 , which stand in my name , but first I will speak briefly to new clause 1 , which we have be discuss so far . the hon . member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) speak about some pretty harrowing case , and say how the first lady be utterly traumatise by have have her abortion at home , which she receive via telemedicine . my new clause seek to make woman safe by ensure that they be see and give the opportunity for proper medical consultation before they get to the stage where they be give inappropriate medication because of a misunderstanding , and then end up traumatised , deliver a relatively mature foetus unexpectedly at home . the hon . Lady do not say during her speech whether she believe that a baby should be terminate right up to term , but I want to put on the record that I do not . I work as an NHS consultant paediatrician , and I have care for and personally hold baby in my hand from 21 week and six day ' gestation right through to term . I be very aware that baby from , say , 30 week upwards have a more than 98 % chance of survival , so although I be supportive of woman ' s right to choose early in pregnancy , I be not supportive of similar right in relation to healthy baby right up to term . until the pandemic , woman have to attend abortion clinic , where they would see a professional and talk through their desire for an abortion and the reason for it . at the clinic , it would be check that the woman be pregnant and how far pregnant she be . the hon . Lady raise case of woman who believe they be so far pregnant , but who turn out to be much far pregnant , which be well know ; sometimes it go the other way . one of the key reason for this confusion be that woman often blee in early pregnancy , and they may believe that those bleed episode represent a period ; when a woman think that she be 10 week pregnant , therefore , she may actually be 14 week pregnant . that consideration be important in the context of access an abortion because at - home abortion via telemedicine be allow only up until 10 week . the reason for that be not to be difficult or awkward , or to make it more difficult for woman to access abortion ; instead , it be a safety issue , because we know that complication be great later in pregnancy . what happen in the early stage be that the procedure essentially cause the foetus to be bear . if that happen to a baby much later in pregnancy , the procedure will cause it to be bear when it have a chance of survival , which can lead to a traumatic experience for the mother as they deliver a much large foetus than expect . it can lead to bleed and , in one case I be aware of , have lead to the death of a mother who be give pill to take at home when she be much far along in her pregnant than she have expect . if this be about safety , then we also have to think about the safety of the baby . in my constituency , a baby have a live birth at 30 week ' gestation . tragically , that baby go on to live for just four day , struggle over that period , and then die . must we not consider the baby ' s safety as much as the woman ' s safety ? I thank the hon . Lady for that intervention . I think we need to consider both . I remember a case involve a lady , Carla Foster , in June 2023 . from my reading of the case , she admit to lie about where she be in her gestation , say that she be far back in pregnancy , at seven week , when she be actually much far along ; she turn out to be around 33 week pregnant when her baby — her little girl , whom she call Lily — be bear . in the paper I have read about the case , she describe be traumatise by the face of that baby , which could have be prevent if she have be to a proper clinic and see a health professional , as that health professional would have clearly see that she be not seven week pregnant , and that take abortion pill intend for early pregnancy be not a suitable or safe medical intervention . if one have a termination later in pregnancy , it be do by foeticide . essentially , an injection of potassium chloride be administer to kill the baby , and then the baby be bear in the usual way , but deceased . that be why it be important to know what the gestation be — because the termination offer under the law be do by a different route , to make sure that it be do safely . we know that the later in pregnancy a termination happen , the more a woman be at risk of medical complication . my hon . friend be make an expert and well - inform speech , and I shall be support her amendment . on the point about the risk involve with abortion to birth , what do she think about jurisdiction such as New Zealand and the State of Victoria in Australia that have decriminalise abortion and see a significant increase in fail late - term abortion — where a baby be bear and there have be a lot of physical harm and risk as a result ? every jurisdiction have a democratic right to do as it choose and I respect that , but it be a tragedy when we hear of case where late - term abortion have not be support by medical care or the law , and woman and infant have suffer significant harm as a result . I want to raise the case of Stuart Worby . some people say that this issue be about protect vulnerable woman , but in this case , which be prosecute in December 2024 , a man who do not want his partner to be pregnant , when she do want to be pregnant , decide to take matter into his own hand . he ask a woman who be not pregnant to get the pill for he . he put they in a drink and give they to his partner , induce a miscarriage . he have rightly be put in jail for that , but the case demonstrate that there be man out there who will obtain tablet with the help of a woman . that could not have happen if woman have to have an in - person appointment , because the woman arrive at the clinic to get the abortion pill on the man ' s behalf would be clearly see not to be pregnant , so would not be able to obtain the medication . my amendment seek to protect woman — woman who be wrong about their gestation or who be mistake in think they have have a bleed or whatever — to make sure that they have a safe termination use the right mechanism . I be delighted to tell my hon . friend that I , too , will be support her amendment . there have be a lot of talk in this place in recent week about coercion — in a different Bill and in a different context . the kind of coercion that she describe be a reality . it be all fine and well to have a fanciful middle - class view of the world , but as I say in respect of a different Bill , there be many wicked people do many wicked thing . the kind of coercion that she describe be the truth ; it be the reality . I agree with my right hon . friend , and I shall come to coercion a little later . first , let I go back to new clause 1 , which decriminalise the woman have an abortion in relation to her own pregnancy . it seem to I that what many wish to do be decriminalise abortion up until term . that be a legitimate position that some people take . I urge the hon . Lady to rethink what she be say . there be nothing in new clause 1 that refer to abortion up until term . there would be no change to the abortion law — absolutely no change at all . we be not say abort to term , and it be extremely harmful for she to say that . I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention . currently , it be illegal for a woman to procure her own abortion between 24 week and term if the baby be healthy . if there be a problem , she have to have it do by doctor in hospital . under the propose new rule , we will have be a situation where a woman can legally have an abortion up until term if she want to do so — [ interruption . ] yes , at any gestation . that be a completely legitimate argument . it be not one that I support or agree with , but it be a legitimate argument that people can make . if that be the case , they should have the courage of their conviction and make it . if criminal law do not work as a deterrent , why do late - term abortion increase in the State of Victoria and in New Zealand after decriminalisation ? if we look at New Zealand in 2020 , there be a 43 % increase in late - term abortion between 20 week ' gestation and birth compare with 2019 . therefore , criminal law do act as a deterrent , and when it be remove we see an increase . we need to learn from different jurisdiction in that regard . the hon . Lady be right to say that we have see an increase in incidence of people take abortion pill late . previously it be very difficult , if not impossible , to obtain the pill — it be certainly impossible to obtain they through NHS clinic — but now it be possible , because people can use a telemedicine clinic . they say that they be seven week pregnant and ask for pill , and we have see example where people have ask for the pill much far on in their pregnancy — into the 30 week — obtain the medicine and make themselves very unwell in do so . turn to coercion , when a doctor see a patient , they take at face value everything the patient tell they . when a lady use telemedicine to have an abortion , it be not possible for a doctor or clinician to know whether somebody else be in the room with they , or sit the other side of the camera force they to say what they be say . it be not possible for the doctor to know whether the lady be pregnant or not or whether the person ask for the medicine will be the person who take it . that be very unsafe . I take the hon . Lady ' s point , although the same would apply if someone be face to face with a doctor ; for example , I could get abortion pill and then give they to someone else after my appointment . I represent a semi - rural constituency , where we struggle with lack of bus route and medical facility . I understand her concern about coercion , but there will be lot of woman in my constituency who be victim of domestic violence and coercion for whom it will be significantly hard to access telemedicine be her amendment to be pass . a point be make about middle - class people , but it would be poor people who struggle to access the service as a result of her amendment . the hon . Lady be correct that if a woman get the tablet at a clinic , she could give they to somebody else , but in order to get they in the first place she would need to be 10 week pregnant , and the clinician would check that she be pregnant . when the medication appear not to have work , question would perhaps be ask about where the tablet have go , so I think there be an inherent safety feature there . the hon . Lady bring up the issue of bus route . that be important , but the question be whether we should improve the bus route or make medical service less safe . Most clinical service be access by individual attend hospital or clinic , and in some respect this instance be no different , because it be important that proper medical check be do . I be not try to limit people ' s access to what be clinically legally available . I be try to make sure that people be safe when they do so . I want to turn to woman who have be traffic or be be force into sex work . we talk yesterday in the House about young girl who have be groom and rape in the grooming gang scandal . would we put it past those evil , nasty man to have get drug and give they to these young girl to hide the evidence of their crime ? I would not . what about those who want to preserve the honour of their family by prevent their daughter from be pregnant ? what about those who think that the baby be carry by their partner be of the wrong gender — they would like a boy but be have a girl ? what about those who be try to cover up sexual abuse , particularly of teenager and young girl , by cause a termination to hide the evidence of their crime ? what if a partner do not want a baby ? Stuart Worby get catch , be prosecute and be rightly in jail , but how many other have do that and not get catch ? we simply will never know . no one know who be take these medication . if we have proper clinic , gestation can be check , a clinician can ascertain more effectively if a woman be be coerce , and they can make the abortion medically as safe as possible . my amendment be not pro - life or pro - choice . it be pro - safety . I think we all agree that there be concern about vulnerable people and abortion law in this country , but we disagree about how to address they . I propose new clause 20 as a way to address those concern and recognise that the issue of abortion access be increasingly under attack , not just in our country but around the world . if we think that we face these challenge because we have outdate law in this country , why would we retain they in any shape or form rather than learn from good practice around the world for all our constituent ? to start , let I put on the record that I take seriously all the concern raise across the House about abortion . I recognise that this be a complex issue , I hear strongly the story about investigation and prosecution , and I want to see change , but I also recognise that change do not come without consequence . new clause 20 , therefore , be base on what be good abortion law — what many of we have work on . it be base on what the sector itself use to say matter , which be that abortion law in England and Wales should recognise development in modern abortion law in Northern Ireland , deliver on the promise we make in this place in 2019 that abortion be a human right , that safe care be a human right for woman , and that we should see a progression of minimum human right standard on abortion , include through the proposal of the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women . I want to start with how the new clause would do that . I want to be clear that only this new clause would provide for decriminalisation . decriminalisation , as define by Marie Stopes , mean remove abortion from the criminal law so that it be no long govern by both the Offences against the Person Act 1861 and the Infant Life Preservation Act 1929 , because that would protect both clinician and those who be at threat of criminal prosecution . decriminalisation would not impact the regulation on safe medical use , medical conduct , safeguard — I recognise that be a serious concern — or the distribution of medicine , and neither would it stop tackle those people who seek to use abortion as a form of abuse or coercion . I want to explain how , in decriminalising and remove the law that have cause those problem , the new clause would keep the 1967 Act not as a list of reason why someone would be exempt from prosecution but as a guide to how abortion should be provide . many of we in the House would recognise the shock for our constituent that abortion be illegal in theory and that the guideline in the 1967 Act be the settle will of this place . to resolve any regulatory challenge , the new clause would require the Secretary of State to comply only with section 85 and 86 of CEDAW — the convention on the elimination of all form of discrimination against woman . those section be about minimum , not maximum , standard of care , and that be only if the Secretary of State believe there appear to be an incongruence that need to be address . I be try to reconcile the two thing that the hon . Lady have say . she talk about the significance of the 1967 Act . when Lord Steel — David Steel as he be then — speak on its Second reading , he say that it be not his aim " to leave a wide open door for abortion on request " , — [ Official Report , 22 July 1966 ; Vol . 732 , c . 1075 . ] yet she have say that it be a human right and so people should have the right to an abortion . how do she reconcile her advocacy of what she describe as the " settle will " of the 1967 Act — not have abortion on request — with the right to have an abortion on request ? I hope that the right hon . Member have read the human right requirement , because they be about the treatment and dignity of the woman in question and the safety of the service provide . I do not believe that Lord Steel would want woman to be put at risk ; indeed , I think that be why he fight for that original legislation . we have support these human right treaty in this place for other reason . the new clause , as in the provision in Northern Ireland , would use the human right requirement as a guide — a template or a test — as to whether the safety and wellbeing of woman be at the heart of what many of we believe be a healthcare rather than a criminal matter . the new clause set out additional test for how we would interpret those human right provision . it bring in the international covenant on economic , social and cultural right to constitute the right of woman to sexual and reproductive health and gender equality . fundamentally , those human right be about equal treatment of each other ' s body . at the moment , the lack of a human right create an inequality for woman in my constituency and his — an inequality that woman in Northern Ireland do not face . we should shape service around their wellbeing ; it be an established principle . some have argue that we should not make this change through amendment to legislation . this issue have always rightly be non - governmental , and there be people who disagree with the right to abortion , and people who support it , in every single party . that mean that proposal for reform of abortion will always come from Back Benchers , or from somebody who have win the golden buzzer of a private Member ' s Bill , which happen very rarely . for those who have call for consultation , the good news be that it be exactly what we get by vote for abortion to be a human right in Northern Ireland . if hon . member ' concern about this amendment be the lack of consultation , they should know that voting for it will trigger a consultation on how to apply the human right test to abortion provision in England and Wales , so that we can test whether our service meet the objective that we set for woman in Northern Ireland . there be a difference of principle on the question of human right , because there be two life involve in these decision . that be the fundamental problem . I respect the right hon . Gentleman ' s belief , and I will always defend his right to it . I tell he this , however : the human right of the woman carry the baby be intricately related to the ability of the baby to survive . if we do not look after woman and protect their wellbeing , there will be no baby . the human right test allow we to ask whether it matter to we that we treat woman equally when it come to the regulation of this healthcare procedure . practically , it also mean that there be somebody to champion those regulation . in Northern Ireland , the human right commissioner have take the Government to court when access to the procedure have be deny . she have establish buffer zone and safe access to abortion clinic as a human right . indeed , she be now look at telemedicine as a human right , and at how to provide it for woman in a safe way . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will , one more time , and then I want to make some progress . the hon . Lady refer to Northern Ireland . it be courtesy of her intervention back in 2019 that we have foist upon Northern Ireland the most extreme abortion law of any place in this United Kingdom — law that totally disregard the right of the unborn and treat they as a commodity to be dispose of at will and at whim . in consequence , we have see a huge , unregulated increase in the destruction of human life through the destruction of the unborn in Northern Ireland . I do not think that that be an example that anyone should want to follow in any part of this United Kingdom . I respect the fact that the hon . and learn Gentleman do not agree with abortion , but as I have say throughout my life when campaign on this issue , stop access to abortion do not stop abortion ; it stop safe abortion . we be talk about how to provide abortion safely . he disagree with abortion , and I will always defend his right to do so , but I will also point out the thousand woman who have now have abortion in Northern Ireland safely , which mean that their life be protect . surely if somebody be pro - life , they be pro - woman ' s live as well . new clause 20 be on that fundamental question . will the hon . Lady give way ? I be sorry , but I can not . I will tell he afterwards why I can not , but I promise that it be not out of a lack of respect for his position . some say that Northern Ireland be different , but why would we think that woman in Northern Ireland be different from woman in England and Wales when it come to human right ? we be seek not to remove our regulation , but to apply the same test to they . we simply want the Secretary of State to ask whether they be human - right compliant . those who celebrate bring abortion to Northern Ireland , and who continue to promote it , do not just celebrate the provision of a service ; they celebrate the liberation of woman from this inequality , which we risk perpetuate for our constituent . will the hon . Lady give way ? I be sorry , but I can not take any intervention . new clause 20 be primarily about whether we think that abortion be a human right , and how we apply that principle to our law here . it be also about the very present and real threat to access in our community . member will have see outside this place the modern anti - abortion movement that we now have in the UK , and will have receive the scaremongere email . of course those in that movement be react more strongly than ever to the idea of woman have this human right protect in law , because their opposition be not about child . if it be , they would not shout at mine when they see they in the street . it be about control woman . they do not openly advocate for an end to abortion access , but they make lurid claim , include the claim that there would be abortion at birth , so let I put that one to bed . because new clause 20 retain the 1967 framework , it retain not just the time limit — crucially , it be different from new clause 1 in that regard — but all the provision in the 1967 Act relate to everyone involve in an abortion . we know that the majority of abortion happen at less than 10 week in this country , but we should protect the time limit . we should also protect the medic involve , because the person who get a fatal foetal abnormality diagnosis after 20 week be the person we should protect most of all . if we reduce that time limit , and if we start to target medic — it could happen in this country , as in America — those people who be ask to carry to term a baby who they know will die will not get our protection . yes , we must stop the investigation and prosecution under outdated law that make no sense , but we must also protect people at that most heartbreaking moment when they be tell that a baby that they really want will not live . that be what keep the 1967 Act do . will the hon . Lady give way ? I be sorry ; I can not take intervention because of time . those who worry that new clause 20 remove outdated law should look at the limited number of prosecution that have take place under exist law , and compare it to the number of investigation that have take place . let we deal with the claim that be be put about . first , there be a claim that repeal would mean that there would no long be the crime that MSI have call reproductive coercion . that be what it call the offence of coercion in the Serious Crime Act 2015 , which it hail . that offence would remain , and it explicitly cover force someone to have an abortion , give the same penalty as section 59 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 . those who claim that coerce someone to have an abortion would be legal under new clause 20 have not pay attention to that legislation , or to the call from the abortion provider to ensure that more healthcare provider — and , it seem , more Government lawyer — be aware of that 2015 law , and of reproductive coercion . those who claim that the loss of the " concealment of the body " law in section 60 of the Offences against the Person Act would facilitate live abortion should look at the exist law on grievous bodily harm and actual bodily harm , which be use in such case because of the difficulty of prove an offence under section 60 , and indeed because of the requirement of the Infant Life Preservation Act 1929 . have give birth to a baby at 37 week , I want to be very clear why time limit and medical decision matter when it come to abortion , not just to the application of substance misuse law . let we be very clear that there would be criminal offence to cover the case that the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) describe , but we be also talk about remove law that have criminalise people who have have stillbirth . these be people who need our compassion , and who need we to be able to differentiate between an outdated law that criminalise abortion and the malicious intent in the substance misuse legislation . People should recognise how seldom these offence can be prove because they make no sense . also , in retain the 1967 Act , we retain the good faith principle for all party to an abortion . that would deal with the trope of sex selection ; nobody can prove that abortion for sex selection reason have happen , but that be cover in the good faith arrangement that be retain with the 1967 legislation . I return to the subject of Northern Ireland , because it be not the absence of regulation that make a difference ; it be Parliament vote to make abortion a human right , and then the Government work with we to make it happen . vote for new clause 20 would kick - start a similar process . we know that government lawyer never really like to deal with change — who do ? — but this be the proper and appropriate way to proceed , and in our Parliament , this be the only way for back - Benchers to make change on matter of conscience . those of we who recognise that reproductive right be the foundation of social justice know that now be the time to act . if we be not free to control what happen to our body , we can not be free in the rest of our life . those who be play politic with abortion play politic with equality . the Vice - President of the US have attack our buffer zone . we should not tolerate his interference in any matter of human right . only new clause 20 would give buffer zone that human right footing . we would not ask a woman to carry to term a baby that would die at birth , but again , there be people in this place who call our abortion law ludicrous , and who advocate for a reduction in the time limit , put a woman ' s health second . that would not happen with a human right framework . those of we who care about these right need to act tonight . Less than half of all man under 40 in this country believe that abortion should be legal in most case , so those who feel that abortion be a settled matter that can not be weaponise in our politic need to listen to the drumbeat already bang loudly in this country . we face a choice today . we know that these law be outdated . do we retain but limit they , or do we remove they and get ahead of what be to come ? I urge colleague who care about these matter to listen to our american counterpart , who bitterly regret not have act under Biden and Obama to protect abortion access , and who now find medic be prosecute and drag across state line . do we learn from how Parliament have act before ? procedurally , member know that if new clause 1 be pass , new clause 20 can not go to a vote , so they will not have the chance to say whether they believe that a safe and legal abortion be a fundamental human right . I want to be clear that I will support new clause 1 , but with great hesitation . that be not because I dismiss those propose it . I hope we can all agree that there be genuine and decent term for disagreement . it be because new clause 20 bring in a lock on ministerial power . it explicitly restrict what Ministers and the Government — not Parliament — can do on this subject in a delegate legislation Committee . it have be surprising to learn , in these debate , how few people have have the joyous experience of sit in a delegate legislation Committee , stack by the Whips with Government mp , that make major change to the law , but in 15 year , that have happen to I a number of time . we have see it on tuition fee rate and welfare cut , and the previous Government try to do it with the Retained EU Law ( Revocation and Reform ) Act 2023 . only new clause 20 would stop Ministers use regulatory power to overturn abortion right . they could use they only to bring in human right - compliant regulation . conversely , if new clause 1 be pass , there be no constraint on how Ministers could use the power . the Minister might say that the new clause bring in no requirement to make regulation . that be true . new clause 1 do not require regulation , but it can and will facilitate it . as the Hansard Society point out , Ministers sometimes seek power in a Bill to enable they to take action that they consider appropriate . that leave Ministers with huge power . new clause 1 would bring abortion within the province of this legislation and give the Secretary of State enable power to make law relate to abortion , as long as they would not reverse the disapplication of abortion law to a person act in relation to their own pregnancy . the power could be use to target medic , or the family of a person seek an abortion . I therefore ask the Minister to explicitly give a commitment that if new clause 1 be pass , there will be no further regulation on abortion under the Bill , and no application to make new clause 1 workable or to clarify the impact of a prosecution on the anti - abortion law that remain . if the Minister can not do that , by definition she prove that that power will exist . by contrast , new clause 20 would restrict that . it would give power back to this place . nobody can bind a future Parliament , but we can demand that it be not small Committees of hand - pick , select mp make decision on the Government ' s behalf , and that each of we should be able to act on behalf of our constituent . criminalisation do not reduce or deter abortion ; it just make it hard to carry out safely . we should be clear that criminalisation will remain if only new clause 1 be pass . if we want the decriminalisation that the sector have always advocate for — for good reason — it be only through new clause 20 that we can achieve that . I hope that colleague in the Lords will have hear this debate , and will not let these matter rest . Regret have no place in politic . it certainly have no place in the politic that I come here to represent . when there be those who would seek to attack woman in this way , I pledge to continue fight for woman ' s right . I pledge to continue fight to make abortion a human right in this country , and I ask colleague to consider the case for do so in this way . but I ask people who care about this to think about this moment and whether we will ever have another one when this Parliament could act in such a positive , constructive and establish way . we can get one thing over the line . why not make it the thing that would make the big difference to our constituent ? rise — order . I be impose an immediate four - minute time limit . member will see that many colleague wish to get in this evening . I rise to speak for new clause 106 and against new clause 1 and 20 . I be grateful for this opportunity to place on the record my grave concern about this hurried attempt to significantly alter our nation ' s abortion law . it be my view that by do so we risk create a series of unintended consequence that could endanger woman , rather than protect and empower they . we need more time . this be not a pro - choice versus pro - life debate . we already have the most inclusive abortion law in Europe : medical abortion be available up to 24 week , which be double the european average , and we have the option of full - term abortion on medical ground . instead , today ' s debate be about ensure that legislation as significant as this — seek to introduce a wholesale change to abortion law affect England , Scotland and Wales — be not rush through without the chance for significant scrutiny . indeed , 90 minute of Back - Bench debate do not cut it , in my opinion . we should , of course , treat woman seek an abortion with compassion and dignity — that go without say . as a councillor on Plymouth city council , I chair the commission on violence against woman and girl . defend the voiceless be my guide principle in politic , and it be with those woman and unborn baby in mind that I make this speech . as over 1000 medical professional say in an open letter cite in the Telegraph today , " if offence that make it illegal for a woman to administer her own abortion at any gestation be repeal , such abortion would , de facto , become possible up to birth for any reason include abortion for sex - selective purpose , as woman could , mistakenly , knowingly or under coercion , mislead abortion provider about their gestational age . if either of these amendment be to become law , it would also likely lead to serious risk to woman ' s health because of the danger involve with self - administer late abortion . " they continue , " quite aside from the increase number of viable baby ' live be end beyond the 24 - week time limit , there would likely be a significant increase in such complication if " new clause 1 or 20 " be to pass , as they would remove any legal deterrent against woman administer their own abortion late in pregnancy . the current law permit flexibility and compassion where necessary but , for these reason , we believe a legal deterrent remain important . " many supporter of new clause 1 and 20 claim that the 24 - week time limit for abortion would not change , but that be misleading . any time limit be meaningless if abortion be legalise all the way up to birth , for any reason , without a legal deterrent . my concern be that , once decriminalisation have take place , further step will be take to expand abortion time limit . indeed , many of the campaigner mention this afternoon be on record saying as much . it be important that we be realistic about that . we be not here to amend the Abortion Act . this be not a Backbench Business debate . we be here to debate an amendment to the Crime and Policing Bill . I hope that the hon . Lady stand correct . I do not think it be a case of be correct . I have significant concern that , should the new clause be pass , those be the next step — it be a bit of a slippery slope . we may just have to disagree on that . public opinion and professional advice be clear . polling undertake by ComRes reveal that only 1 % of the public support the introduction of abortion up to birth , 70 % of woman would like to see a reduction in the time limit from 24 week to 20 week or less — still well above that of many of our european neighbour — and 89 % of the population oppose the sex - selective abortion that new clause 1 and 20 would allow . will the hon . Lady give way ? no , I will make some progress . those who champion new clause 1 claim that it be need to stop arrest , long investigation and the prosecution of woman , but it be important to highlight that prosecution under section 58 and 59 of the Offences against the Person Act almost always relate to male induce or coerce woman into abortion . by decriminalise woman , we would , by implication , also stop the opportunity to prosecute abusive or coercive male . to be prosecute for aid and abet abortion , there need to have be a case to answer in the first place . instead , I stand here to suggest a well route forward : new clause 106 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) . she have rehearse the argument for that new clause excellently , but I will add that freedom of information request have reveal that one in 17 woman who take pill by post require hospital treatment — equivalent to more than 10 , 000 woman between April 2020 and September 2021 . further investigation find that the number of ambulance service call - out relate to abortion increase in London . they also increase in the south - west , where my constituency be , from 33 in 2019 to 74 in 2020 — a 124 % increase . that correlate directly with the removal of the need for a doctor ' s appointment . at - home abortion be make permanent by just 27 vote in March 2022 . polling in June 2025 find that two third of woman support a return to in - person appointment . I call on the House to support new clause 106 . I rise to speak in support of new clause 1 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) , which would remove woman from the criminal law on abortion . before my election last year , I serve as the director of the Women ' s Equality Network Wales , and this issue have long be close to my heart . until very recently , violent man end their partner ' pregnancy make up the bulk of prosecution under this 1861 law , but recently we have see a big rise in woman be target , many erroneously . this be not a law that exist in Northern Ireland , Scotland , France , Canada , Australia , New Zealand or even , member may be surprised to know , the most anti - abortion state of America , but it be increasingly use against woman in this country . I want to take some time today to speak about one of these woman . I will call her Becca , which I stress be not her real name . I know about what happen to Becca because her mum and dad be horrify at what happen , and they want we to hear about the injustice this law cause and to think of Becca when we cast our vote later . Becca be 19 year old when she give birth to her baby in hospital . she have access legal abortion care through a licensed clinic , think she be in the first 10 week of pregnancy . she have suffer a very rare complication , and her pregnancy be later on than she and her doctor expect . her parent report that she have gain no weight , have have regular period and have be work night shift for the NHS only hour before . will the hon . Lady give way ? due to time , I will not ; I apologise . when Becca give birth , her baby be small and premature . she say the first hospital she stay in be amazing , provide support for she , her partner and their baby . the second , however , make the decision — against professional guidance and rule on patient confidentiality — to report she and her partner to the police on suspicion of attempt abortion . one month after her child be bear , Becca return home to register the birth . the police swoop . both she and her partner be arrest , she from her parent ' house and he from their baby ' s cot side . they be hold in police cell and interview under caution , without understand what be happen or why . when they be bail , social service visit their house and tell they they be not allow to care for their baby without supervision , mean that Becca could not breastfeed or hold her baby until her parent be approve as supervisor . during that visit , the social worker make a difficult situation even worse , tell the family their baby be deaf and blind as a result of the alleged abortion attempt . the baby be not . this casual cruelty by a social worker cause immense distress . fortunately , Becca , her partner and her baby be now do well . social service agree that they be good parent and be no long monitor they . I imagine that many member across the Chamber today have never think this kind of cruelty exist under abortion law in this country . I know that I have never consider it . the truth be that the current legal framework harm woman and girl when they be at their most desperate , and the only people who can stop it be we here in Parliament today . while change the law by vote through new clause 1 today can not erase what happen to Becca and her family , it can stop it happen to any more woman . I urge member to keep woman like Becca in the forefront of their mind when they vote . think of Becca and vote for new clause 1 . my concern about these amendment be such that I and other commission a lead king ' s Counsel to draft a legal opinion regard their effect . let I inform member of his conclusion . I begin with new clause 1 . the KC confirm that , under new clause 1 , in practice , " it would no long be illegal for a woman to carry out her own abortion at home , for any reason , at any gestation , up to birth . " I note that the hon . member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) acknowledge in her explanatory statement to new clause 1 that her amendment apply " at any gestation " — that is , up to full term . let we be clear what this mean . under new clause 1 , woman would be able to perform their own abortion — for example , with abortion pill , which can now be obtain without an in - person gestational age check — up to birth , with no legal deterrent . due to medical advancement , we can save the life of a foetus at 21 week , yet we can legally terminate a foetus at 24 week . I shall be vote against all the amendment relate to the decriminalisation of abortion . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that we should actually be reduce the window in which it be possible to have an abortion , so that the law reflect the reality of modern medicine ? I agree . let I move to new clause 20 . I be deal with very narrow legal point , and it might be of interest to the House that the KC conclude that the new clause " would render the 24 - week time limit obsolete in respect of the prosecution of woman who undertake termination of pregnancy in typical circumstance . " he explain that " the NC20 amendment would repeal the abortion law offence " , include those relate to a " late abortion " . in other word , new clause 20 would fully repeal all exist law that prohibit abortion in any circumstance , at any gestation , both in relation to a woman undergo an abortion , and abortion provider or clinician perform abortion . in the second iteration of her new clause , the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) have add a measure that seek to amend the Abortion Act 1967 , to create the impression that a time limit would remain . however , the Abortion Act only provide exemption against prosecution under the law that new clause 20 would repeal , so those offence would no long remain under new clause 20 . since the Abortion Act itself contain no penalty or offence , and neither would the propose new clause introduce any , add a mere mention of an ongoing time limit in the Act would be toothless and utterly meaningless under the law . new clause 20 would de facto have the effect of fully decriminalise abortion up to full term for both woman and abortion provider . hon . member do not need to take my word for it . it be not often that they will hear I agree with the British Pregnancy Advisory Service , the UK ' s lead abortion provider , but its assessment of new clause 20 conclude that it would " largely render the Abortion Act 1967 obsolete " and " create a regulatory lacuna around abortion provision and access . " there be one additional angle that member need to be aware of . on new clause 20 , the legal opinion find that " the effect of the amendment be that a woman who terminate her pregnancy solely on the basis that she believe the child to be female would face no criminal sanction in connection with that reason , or at all . " similarly , on new clause 1 the opinion confirm that " it would not be illegal for a woman to carry out her own abortion at home , solely on the basis that the foetus be female . " these amendment be not pro - woman ; they would introduce sex - selective abortion . sex - selective abortion be already happen in this country . back in 2012 , a Telegraph investigation find that doctor at UK clinic be agree to terminate foetus because they be either male or female . a BBC investigation in 2018 find that non - invasive prenatal test be be widely use to determine a baby ' s sex early in pregnancy , lead to pressure impose on some woman to have sex - selective abortion . that evidence lead the Labour party to urge a ban on such test be use to determine the sex of baby in the womb . a report by the Nuffield Council on Bioethics similarly find that several website be privately offer test to determine the sex of a baby , and the council warn that the increase prevalence of private testing may be encourage sex - selective abortion . pass new clause 1 or new clause 20 would likely make the situation bad . in conclusion , what we be face with be an extreme set of amendment go way beyond what public dominion demand , and way beyond what be happen in any other country in the world . I rise in support of new clause 1 and new clause 20 . I be someone who choose the spend the majority of my time in this place focus on woman , who make up 51 % of the population — on mother , parent , woman ' s health and maternity — and I would like specifically to address comment that have be make in the Chamber today which pit the life of a foetus against that of a mother . despite the fact that 40 % of mp be now woman , and that every single one of we represent a constituency that will be 50 % woman , I rarely hear woman ' s issue be discuss here . on every issue in this House there be an angle that affect woman differently , and that especially affect those care for child differently , yet we do not speak about it . when people speak against abortion in any form , I be stupefy by the bubble from within which they speak . will they also speak out about the risk of give birth when two - third of maternity ward be deem unsafe by the Care Quality Commission ? I doubt it . will they speak out about the fact that more than 1 . 6 million woman be keep out of the labour market because of their caring responsibility , which be seven time those of man ? I doubt it . will they speak out about child in temporary accommodation , the extortionate cost of childcare , medical negligence and the decimation of sure Start ? I doubt it . until hon . member have do their time make this world one thousand time well for mother and parent , as it need to be , I suggest that they reflect on the audacity of make a judgment in isolation today that cry , " life . " every decision we make in this place come relative to its context . a woman who end up in the truly agonising position of have an abortion be protect a life — she be protect her own life . Hers be the life that hon . member choose to vote against if they vote against these amendment ; hers be the life hon . member would be choose to discard . as other have say , in reality , the amendment before we today will affect very few people , but will critically mean that while a woman be the carrier of a child , she will not be criminalise for anything to do with or within her body . give how little the world tend to care about woman and their body , I personally trust those individual woman far more than I trust any state or judicial system that have yet to prove it can properly support the right of woman . that be why I will be vote for this and any amendment that far the right of woman over their own body . I believe that both live matter in every pregnancy — both the mum ' s life and the child ' s life . abortion be often frame as a choice between the right of the mother and of the child . I reject that frame , but today we be consider two amendment , new clause 1 and new clause 20 , that would be bad for both woman and unborn child ; and one amendment , new clause 106 , that would protect both woman and unborn baby who be old enough to survive outside the womb . in the last Parliament , I , along with a number of colleague , warn that the pill - by - post scheme for at - home abortion would cause an increase in medical complication , dangerous late abortion and coerce abortion . sadly , those warning have become reality . a study base on a freedom of information request to NHS trust find that more than 10 , 000 woman who take at least one abortion pill at home , provide by the NHS , in 2020 , need hospital treatment for complication ; that be the equivalent of more than one in 17 woman or 20 per day . last December , Stuart Worby be jail after use abortion pill , obtain by a third party through the pill - by - post scheme , to induce an abortion in a pregnant woman against her knowledge or will . such case could have be prevent if abortion provider have not push , in the face of warning about precisely such incident , for the removal of in - person appointment where a woman ' s identity and gestational age could be accurately verify , and any health risk assess . the issue of inaccurate gestational age have lead indirectly to the amendment before we today . abortion provider have themselves concede , and I quote Jonathan Lord , former medical director for Marie Stopes , that , until recently , " only three woman have ever be on trial over the past 160 year " for illegal abortion . since then , there have be an increase in investigation and prosecution , albeit a small number compare to the quarter of a million abortion we now have every year in the United Kingdom . this small rise in prosecution have be cause by the pill - by - post scheme , which have enable woman , either because they miscalculate their own gestational age or through dishonesty , to obtain abortion pill beyond the 10 - week limit , when at - home abortion be legal and consider safe for woman , and even beyond our 24 - week time limit for abortion . tragically , this have lead to viable baby ' live be end . what be the answer ? I suggest it can not be to make thing bad by decriminalise abortion . that would be bad for woman and unborn life , remove the legal deterrent against dangerous late - term , unsupervised abortion that would put woman at risk as well as baby , even long after they be viable in the womb . this would render our already very late time limit redundant in a context where pill can be obtain without any reliable in - person gestational age check . the alternative solution be to end the pill - by - post scheme and reinstate in - person consultation . that be why I support new clause 106 , and the public support it too . new polling have find that just 4 % of woman support the current pill - by - post arrangement and two third want a return to in - person appointment . decriminalisation may allow the problem with the pill - by - post scheme to be cover up , but it will not stop the problem happen . in fact , it will incentivise more dangerous late - term abortion of viable baby . let I close by turn to Northern Ireland . when the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) hijack the Northern Ireland ( Executive Formation etc . ) act to impose abortion on Northern Ireland , she argue that woman in Northern Ireland face discrimination because they do not have access to the same abortion provision as woman in Great Britain . let I very clear : Northern Ireland be very different . Northern Ireland do not have the pill - by - post scheme , so a direct correlation with GB can not be make . I ask hon . member to support new clause 106 . it be worth be absolutely clear about what new clause 1 would and would not do . it would simply remove the threat of prosecution for woman who end their own pregnancy : it would not change the abortion time limit , which remain . the rule around telemedicine remain . the requirement for two doctor to sign off remain . in recent year there have be what I consider to be a worrying rise in the number of people be investigate , prosecute and even imprison under the law . these prosecution be deeply distressing and , in most case , entirely disproportionate . it be far more common for a woman to miscarry or to miscalculate the stage of her pregnancy than to wilfully break the law . to fully address the question from my hon . friend the Member for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) , I do not think it be right , in the context of what be actually happen in investigation and prosecution , that any woman should be prosecute . the harm cause by the number of investigation and prosecution where it be absolutely not justified outweigh that . a constituent come to see I yesterday and explain that when she be 16 she be coerce into a forced marriage by her family . she have not be allow to have any sex education , so when she become pregnant she do not even realise . it be only when her mum notice that she manage to access a legal abortion , but she tell I that she could have be in a situation in which she would have have to get out of that marriage in order to have a late abortion . do my hon . friend think it would be in the public interest to go after woman such as my constituent who be in force marriage ? be that helpful ? I absolutely think it be not helpful to go against those woman . new clause 1 would retain the criminal prosecution of man who force woman to have an abortion , or indeed anyone who coerce a woman into have an abortion . one in eight know pregnancy end in miscarriage , yet we have see woman subject to invasive investigation , delay medical care and lengthy legal process because they have have an abortion or a stillbirth . many colleague have already speak about the intense distress that legal proceeding inflict , whatever the circumstance . in the case of Nicola Packer , it take four year to clear her name . during that time , the scrutiny she face be entirely dehumanising , with completely irrelevant matter treat as evidence of wrongdoing . for every woman who end up in court , many more endure police investigation , often include phone seizure , home search and even , in some case , have child remove from their care . all that not only be distressing and disproportionate for those woman , but make abortion less safe . if woman be scared of be criminalise , they will not be honest with their midwife , GPs or partner . abortion be healthcare , and healthcare rely on honest conversation between care provider and patient . I will rebut a bit of the misinformation that say that new clause 1 would allow abusive partner or other to avoid prosecution . that be simply not true . NC1 apply only to the woman who end her own pregnancy . Healthcare professional who act outside the law , and partner and other family member who use violence or coercion would still be criminalise , just as they be now , and quite rightly so . the amount of misinformation about abortion be distress — I have see it within and without this Chamber . what be the fact ? some 88 % of abortion happen before nine week . as a woman who have lose two very - much want pregnancy at about that stage , I be very aware of what that actually mean physically , and of what stage the foetus be at then . abortion after 20 week make up just 0 . 1 % of all case , and those be due to serious medical reason . woman be not end their pregnancy because of convenience . NC1 would not change what be happen with abortion care , but it would protect woman from be drag through these brutal investigation , which be completely inappropriate in the majority of case anyway . woman be extremely unlikely to try to provoke their own abortion outside the time limit . a criminal sanction for that , or a distressing and intrusive investigation , be entirely disproportionate . it be not in the public interest to subject these woman to these investigation . I will finish with this : woman who have abortion , woman who have miscarriage and woman who have child be not distinct set of woman . many of we will experience at least two of those thing , if not all three . let we stop make false distinction and try to pit group of woman against each other , and let we stop brutally criminalise woman — many of they very vulnerable woman — in the way that the current law do , because it serve no purpose . today , we can end that . I rise to speak against new clause 1 and 20 , and in support of new clause 106 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) . first , it be important for I to say that I fully support woman ' s reproductive right . I think that we generally get the balance right here in the UK , and protect that be a hill I would die on . however , I be disturb by new clause 1 and 20 , which would decriminalise abortion up to birth . if they become law , fully develop baby up to term could be abort by a woman with no consequence . the reason we criminalise late - term abortion be not about punishment ; it be about protection . by provide a deterrent to such action , we protect woman . we protect they from try to perform an abortion at home that be unsafe for they , and from coercive partner and family member who may push they to end late - term pregnancy . I have great respect for the hon . member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) , who have table new clause 1 . we share many of the same objective on other topic , but in this case I think she be try to solve a very real issue — the increase number of prosecution — with the wrong solution . these amendment be drive by the case of Carla Foster , among other . Carla Foster be a mum who be prosecute under UK law for carry out an illegal abortion in May 2020 , during the covid pandemic . she carry out the abortion at 32 to 34 week of pregnancy after receive the relevant drug through the pill - by - post scheme introduce during lockdown . this be a terrible case that harshly demonstrate the flaw with the current process , but the issue here be not the criminalisation of abortion after 24 week ; it be the fact that Carla Foster be give the pill without check how far along she be in the first place . she be fail by people here in Parliament who vote to allow those pill to be send out by mail during lockdown without an in - person consultation . that be an irresponsible decision ; and one that might have be forgive in the light of a global pandemic if it have remain temporary . however , in March 2022 the scheme be make permanent . if we want to protect woman from knowingly or unknowingly acquire abortion pill after 24 week of pregnancy and induce an abortion at home , we must put an end to the situation in which those pill can be acquire without a face - to - face consultation at which gestational age verification by medical professional can take place . these drug be dangerous if not use in the right way , as we see when Stuart Worby spike a pregnant woman ' s drink with they , result in the miscarriage of her 15 - week - old baby . make no mistake : the pill - by - post scheme enable that evil man and his female accomplice to commit that crime . it be also important to note that prior to the pill - by - post scheme , only three woman have be convict for an illegal abortion over the past 160 year , demonstrate the effectiveness of the safeguard . however , since that scheme be introduce — accord to Jonathan Lord , who be medical director of Marie Stopes at the time — four woman have appear in court on similar charge within an eight - month period . criminalisation of abortion after 24 week be not the problem ; the pill - by - post scheme be . if new clause 1 pass while the pill - by - post scheme remain in place , here be what will happen . More woman will attempt late - term abortion at home use abortion pill acquire over the phone , and some of those woman will be harm . many of they will not have realise that they be actually go to deliver something that look like a baby , not just some blood clot — that be go to cause huge trauma for they . many of those woman genuinely will not have realise how far along they be , due to implantation bleeding be mistaken for their last period , and on top of all of this , some of the baby will be alive on delivery . we in this place need to get away from this terrible habit of only consider issue through a middle - class lens . what about woman who be be sexually exploit and traffic ? what about teenage girl who do not want their parent to find out that they be pregnant ? order . I call David Smith . I rise to oppose new clause 1 and 20 and to support new clause 106 . all the new clause concern the issue of abortion . through the process of decriminalisation , new clause 1 and 20 will introduce the possibility of de facto abortion up to birth for any reason in this country , for the first time in history . let I be clear : this mean that it will no long be illegal for a woman to abort a full - term , healthy baby . that would be a profound change in the settle position on abortion in this country for the past 58 year — an extreme move that polling have show that the vast majority of the country do not want . indeed , recent polling show that only 3 % of the public support the idea of abortion up to birth . new clause 106 would diminish the risk of woman be criminalise for abortion beyond the current legal limit through the reinstitution of in - person appointment . that be popular ; recent polling show that two third of woman back a return to in - person appointment for abortion . I do not want to be stand here talk about abortion . it be not something that I come into Parliament to do . I be also very conscious that , as a man , I should be very careful about comment on the experience of woman . however , I feel that new clause 1 and 20 give I no choice but to speak against they , despite my huge respect for the mover of new clause 1 in particular . what be we try to achieve here ? if the aim be to decriminalise woman in difficult situation , I have huge sympathy for that . for eight year I be the chief executive of a homelessness charity that house and support woman in desperate situation , many of whom be traumatise , dependent on substance , with fluctuate mental ill health condition and extensive experience of the criminal justice system . a common theme among they be that they have be abuse and harm from a very early age , consistently into their adulthood . the woman we serve and support still have agency . they still have free will . if their circumstance be desperate at time , they nevertheless often confound those circumstance to rise above they . however , they also make decision that they regret . they make decision , at time , that those around they — and even they themselves , later — be appal by . I recall , a few year ago , support a woman in a hostel who be traumatise by her own decision to abort a child . do my hon . friend agree , in the context of this language about protect people , that we also need to protect people from these decision when they be not make with the proper safeguard and protection in place ? I do agree . if something be absolute — in term of the new clause , as I understand they — it must cover all eventuality , and what we be try to say be that we simply do not believe that it can . I have hear it say that no woman would induce an abortion after 24 week , but we can not introduce such a profound change in abortion law on the basis of a simple hope that no woman would take such a drastic step . if we remove the possibility of criminal prosecution for abortion post 24 week ' gestation , it be a certainty that some woman will take that drastic step if there be no sanction and no wide consequence . will my hon . friend give way ? I be afraid I be go to make some progress . in 2024 , accord to Government statistic , there be a quarter of a million abortion . if only 1 % of they take place as late - term abortion , that would mean 2 , 500 late - term abortion a year . we also risk the rise , once more , of backstreet abortion . imagine a scenario in which a woman know that she can not now be prosecute under the law for a late - term abortion , but for some reason wish to go ahead with one , or be pressure into it . surely at this stage she be more likely to get hold of pill by post — which be not consider safe to take outside a clinical context after 10 week — by pretend to be under the legal limit , to undertake a dangerous procedure on herself , or to seek to procure an off - the - book abortion . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will make progress . the new clause seek to address a perceive problem of police action that be over - zealous in a handful of case by make a fundamental change to abortion law that would put more woman at risk while also risk the life of infant child . my hon . friend be give a speech that I think many member will find difficult to hear from such a wonderful friend and colleague . do he agree that many woman be already face incredibly difficult situation , and many could already have a late - term abortion for which they could order pill online ? we do not want to criminalise those who be not do that . it be entirely wrong to criminalise people for take action . do my hon . friend agree that the majority of woman be do the right thing ? I absolutely do agree that the vast majority of woman be do the right thing , but I do not believe that we can cover all eventuality through such a fundamental black - and - white change in the law . the real problem be that the temporary pill - by - post abortion scheme bring in during covid , which do not require in - person appointment , have be make permanent . that be why I add my name to new clause 106 . in - person appointment would remove any doubt about the gestational age of a foetus within a narrow range , and massively reduce the likelihood of successful coercion , which be something I have see throughout my work , as I have mention . this would consequentially remove the possibility of egregious police overreach , which I know my hon . friend be so concerned about . will my hon . friend give way ? I be just come to my conclusion . the choice for Members be very clear — indeed , stark . it be to approve the big change to abortion law in 58 year while , I believe , make thing bad for woman and their unborn child , or to solve the problem of criminal justice overreach by reinstate in - person appointment for abortion . this be clearly a very difficult subject , and I just feel that amend this Bill be not the right way to go about such a divisive and emotive change , but I will leave it there . rise — order . the speak limit be far reduce to three minute . I rise to speak against new clause 1 and 20 , which represent rush change to our abortion law of profound consequence not only for the unborn child , but for woman themselves . my fear be that , if pass , these new clause would undermine the ability to prosecute abusive partner who force woman into end a pregnancy , inadvertently lead to more dangerous and highly distressing at - home abortion , and risk reduce the status of an unborn child to a legal non - entity . I also wish to put on record my deep unease about the continue attempt to lasso unrelated legislation with amendment on abortion . whether or not one support liberalisation , we should all be able to agree that these amendment represent substantial change to the exist law . I be afraid the hon . member be not state what my new clause would actually do . it take woman out of the criminal justice system , and this be the Crime and Policing Bill . I be also express my concern about other amendment that have be table , but I believe the hon . member be none the less propose a substantial change that deserve more than a two - hour debate among Back Benchers . as mps , we be not here simply to express our opinion of an ideal world or even to focus only on highly distressing case ; we be legislator , and no great legislative duty exist than to make sure that what we do in this House do not lead to unintended consequence in the real world for the most vulnerable . in two hour of debate on a Tuesday afternoon , we be be ask to rewrite a profound boundary in british law that protect the unborn child . that be not responsible lawmaking ; it be a procedural ambush . it be tell that not even the promoter of decriminalisation in this House can agree on the form it should take . that ought to make each one of we pause , because it speak to the challenge of move beyond principle to real - world application . it be worth our recall previous effort to amend Bills in this way and their consequence . the temporary pill - by - post scheme bring in during the crisis of the pandemic be make permanent by an amendment hooked , with little notice , on to an unrelated Bill , and what have we see since ? we have see woman access pill under false name and gestational date , and take they far beyond the recommend 10 - week limit , and viable baby have be lose after late - term abortion . that be not woman ' s healthcare ; it be legal and medical failure . will the hon . Lady give way ? will the hon . Lady give way ? I be afraid there be simply not enough time . that failure be now be use to justify the loosening of abortion law still far due to a recent uptick in case of woman be investigate . I have look carefully at the argument be push for decriminalisation , and with those from the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) , I see that the bogeyman of the US right be back . apparently , unless we agree to these amendment , evangelical religious group pay for by US cash be go to start roll back woman ' s reproductive right in this country . this be utter nonsense . we be in the UK , and we have a very different and a more balanced national conversation . this be not pro or anti life . it be not extremist to want protection for viable baby , and it be not anti - woman to say that coercion or dangerous self - medication should not be outside the reach of the law . we also see the argument make that this be solely a woman ' s health issue and nobody but she should have a say over what happen to her body , but that be to ignore a very inconvenient truth that have always stalk the abortion debate : this be not about one body ; there be two body involve . like it or not , this House have a duty to consider the right of a woman against the safety and morality of abort the unborn viable child without consequence . it be not extreme or anti - woman to say that a baby matter too . I accept that new clause 1 do not decriminalise a doctor or third party carry out an abortion outside exist time limit , but let we step back and ask why we have criminal law at all . it be not simply to punish , but to deter . the former Justice Minister Laura Farris have express concern that the challenge of prosecution for infanticide will become great . she have also raise similar concern about prosecute coercive partner if the termination be no long a criminal offence . order . I want to start by align myself with , and commend the speech of , my hon . friend the Members for Morecambe and Lunesdale ( Lizzi Collinge ) , for Ribble Valley ( Maya Ellis ) , for Monmouthshire ( Catherine Fookes ) , for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) and for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) . I be proud to stand alongside my colleague and be proud to listen to what they have to say today . and because of what they have to say today , I have less to say , which will allow more people to speak . I have be send here by my constituent to defend and further their right to safe and legal abortion . my inbox have be inundate with message from constituent who be concern , and who want to be able to have safe and legal abortion . they want to be remove from the criminal justice system , as my hon . friend the Member for Gower say , because we have situation where clinically vulnerable woman , who have go through some of the bad experience that anybody can go through , will in some case be arrest straight from the hospital ward , hurry to cell and make to feel unmitigated level of shame and guilt , on top of the physical and mental trauma they have already experience . my hon . friend be articulate exactly the point , which be that very few woman , if any at all , take the decision to have an abortion lightly . it be an incredibly difficult , painful and hard decision , which be physically and mentally very tough to deal with . do he agree that that be the crux of what we be do here : alleviate some of the pain that those woman be have to go through ? I thank my hon . friend for that really powerful intervention . I completely agree . if in this place we can do one important thing today , which be to send a signal that we wish to alleviate that pain , then we should do it . be my hon . friend aware of the fact that it be impossible medically to determine whether somebody have have a miscarriage or have use abortion pill , so the case these woman do not have a scientific or medical basis , only suspicion ? if we really want to protect the woman , we would make sure that she have the right advice and the right medical support throughout her pregnancy . I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . I do agree , and it take I to the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Ribble Valley . she talk about how , over many year , woman have be deny access to the healthcare , advice , guidance , childcare and other infrastructure that be so critical to a woman ' s quality of life . we need to end that , full stop . that take I to another point , which relate to new clause 106 . I listen to the mover of new clause 106 , the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) , and to those on the Opposition Benches make case in support of it . I be afraid I do not agree . there be nothing in the clinical evidence available to support the new clause . as somebody who run a domestic abuse and mental health charity for five year before I be elect , I be very painfully aware of the trauma and difficulty that woman who have be domestically abuse will go through , and I do not want they to feel , on top of that , shame and trauma about try to access abortion service . it be important that we think about those people . I forget who it be on the liberal Democrat Benches , but they make a really important point about poor people who be unable to access transport link to access clinic . there be a really important point about our infrastructure be break down , such as bus connectivity . that be the legacy of the past 14 year , but it be a legacy we must none the less contend with or woman will be impede in their access to abortion service as a consequence . do the hon . Gentleman agree with the advice from the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists , the Royal College of General Practitioners , the Royal College of Midwives , the Royal Pharmaceutical Society , the Faculty of Sexual and Reproductive Healthcare and the British Medical Association , who all know much more than we do about the issue , to vote firmly against new clause 106 , because it make woman more vulnerable ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that intervention . I agree with those body and I agree with he . finally , the hon . member for Hornchurch and Upminster ( Julia Lopez ) make an argument about a bogeyman of american politic somehow be conjure up by my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow . I represent Bournemouth East . in my constituency , we have BPAS Bournemouth , which be target by US Vice - President J . d . vance when he make his point about buffer zone and abortion access . I have speak with the people who work at that clinic since that speech be give , and they be scared . they want to support woman ' s reproductive right and woman ' s health and safety , but staff member ' vehicle be be tamper with , and woman seek the clinic ' s support be find their access impede . they want we to be sensitive in what we say and how we say it , because there be people across our constituency who be deeply concerned for the welfare of woman , and who look to we to send the right signal through how we conduct our politic . I be a signatory to new clause 1 and new clause 20 . I recognise that there will be a vote on new clause 1 first . I will vote in favour of it , and I call on all member across this House to do the same . we have run out of time , so I will call the Front - Bench speaker . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . as be usual on matter of conscience , these vote will not be whip by my party today , as I believe be the case across the House . that say , my party pass relevant policy at our party conference , and I will lay out that policy before talk a little about my predecessor ' s work on the 1967 Act . then I will explain , in a personal capacity , why I will support some , but not all , of the amendment before we . the Liberal Democrats believe that woman have the right to make independent decision about their reproductive health without interference from the state , and that access to reproductive healthcare be a human right . the current law impact the most vulnerable woman . under that legislation , some can be drag from hospital bed to prison cell and endure needlessly long period of investigation and prosecution . the provision that allow for this be introduce before woman be even allow to vote , so it be not surprising that many see the need for they to be update . in the past five year , there have be both debate about whether the police have the resource that they need to keep our community safe , and a surge of police investigation into woman suspect of obtain medication or instrument to end their pregnancy outside the law . that surely can not be the good use of police time . Lib Dem policy be to ensure proper funding for impartial advice service , so that people can receive comprehensive , unbiased information without be pressure . access to abortion should never be make more stressful , so we would maintain safe zone around clinic to protect those seek care . my predecessor as Liberal MP for Hazel Grove , the late Dr Michael Winstanley , later Lord Winstanley , be key in shape the Abortion Act 1967 . he be on a cross - party group of around a dozen mp who seek to refine the language and the strategy of that vital legislation . Dr Winstanley continue to be mention on the doorstep in my constituency , and he be know , among other thing , for bring calm , professional insight to the debate . he draw on his background as a general practitioner and on his medical knowledge and experience to ground the discussion in medical evidence , and be especially vocal in highlight the dangerous and often desperate condition face by woman when abortion be severely restrict . he make the case that legal , regulated abortion be not only safe but more humane . at the end of this debate , I will join the World Health Organisation , the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists , midwife , nurse , psychiatrist , general practitioner and the end violence against Women Coalition in support new clause 1 . to be clear , this new clause would not change how abortion be provide or the legal time limit on it , and it would apply only to woman act in relation to their own pregnancy . Healthcare professional act outside the law , and abusive partner use violence or poisoning to end a pregnancy , would still be criminalise , as they be now . will the hon . Lady give way ? I be under strict encouragement from Madam Deputy Speaker to be speedy , so I will not give way . I very much support the spirit of new clause 20 , but I can not support new clause 106 . I acknowledge that those who table it want woman to be able to access the good healthcare available , but it would be a step backwards to make it hard for woman to access the treatment that they need , whether that be woman in a coercive relationship , or those who live in a rural area with limited transport option , and who find it hard to access in - person medical appointment . telemedicine enable timely , accessible abortion care . we rightly speak repeatedly in this House of the strain on our NHS ' s space , staff and capacity , so it feel entirely retrograde to roll this service back and insert clinically unnecessary barrier , and I can not support do so . the amendment and new clause before we be subject to free vote , so member can rightly choose for themselves . I very much hope that we choose to move forwards , not back . I call the shadow Minister . in recent week and month in this House , we have become familiar with vote of conscience . the amendment that I shall speak to — new clause 1 , 20 and 106 — be also matter of conscience . although I be respond for his Majesty ' s official Opposition , Conservative Members will have free vote , so the view that I express will be my own , and I fully recognise that there may be conservative colleague who disagree with I . I recognise that the hon . member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) and for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) table new clause 1 and 20 with the very good of intent . I have no doubt that all member who sign they do so with the objective of support and safeguard the right of woman , and I can unequivocally say that I share those aim , as do my hon . friend the Members for Hornchurch and Upminster ( Julia Lopez ) , for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) , for South West Devon ( Rebecca Smith ) , and for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) , and my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , who have also speak . however , I do not believe that new clause 1 or 20 achieve the safeguarding of woman that member seek . view on abortion do not have to be absolutist . be pro - choice be not incompatible with be pro - life when the foetus be at a stage at which it be inherently viable . believe that woman should have autonomy over their body do not negate the need for a system that safeguard woman from physical and emotional harm . as we have hear , new clause 1 would ensure that pregnant woman be not criminalise for access an abortion during their pregnancy . it would , however , retain the law relate to the provision of abortion in healthcare setting as it stand . effectively , a woman in England and Wales would legally be able to abort an unborn child by her own mean up to the moment prior to a natural birth , but a healthcare professional would be break the law if they try to help she do so outside the 24 - week limit . there be a calumny at the heart of this , which be that these new clause be compatible with the ' 67 Act . when breach an Act of this Parliament cease to be unlawful , it lose its force and therefore its purpose , and that calumny can not be allow to stand on the record . I thank my right hon . friend for his intervention . on the one hand , abortion would be decriminalise for woman ; on the other , restriction on her ability to access that same procedure in a safe , control and supportive setting would remain . we must be careful not to create a law that have unintended and potentially harmful consequence , especially for those it be design to help , and especially when those who be likely to rely on it be likely to be in a state of stress or distress . new clause 1 raise many question . be it tenable to legalise all but full - term abortion in England and Wales , but not in other part of the UK ? what would be the legal implication if a woman in Gretna travel 10 mile across the border to Carlisle to have an abortion after the 24 - week limit that be in place in Scotland ? under new clause 1 , how do we monitor such abortion that occur outside a healthcare set ? how do we ensure that mother ' physical and mental health be protect and support ? and what happen to the once - deliver foetus , if the abortion be outside a healthcare set ? as we have hear , new clause 20 go far than new clause 1 in many respect , so many of the same concern apply . new clause 106 in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham would mandate an in - person consultation before a pregnant woman be prescribe medication to terminate a pregnancy . this new clause be not about make abortion hard to access . an abortion should , of course , be readily available to those who need and want it , and of course abortion medication should be easily accessible during the appropriate stage of pregnancy , but this new clause be about the safety of the mother and the unborn child . face - to - face appointment be commonplace for patient with a wide range of medication and condition , particularly when new medication be be prescribe . a private , in - person consultation allow a doctor to be as sure as they can be that the woman be act of her own inform free will , and ensure that her mental state be assess and understand . it also reduce as much as possible the likelihood of medication be misuse or abuse . telemedicine , while it have its place , can never be a replacement for the patient - doctor relationship develop during face - to - face appointment . it have serious shortcoming . there have be many case where abortion medicine have be misuse follow telemedicine , and there have be many more hospitalisation of woman follow the use of telemedicine . however , I stress that not all of these case will be down to misuse ; we should all be aware of that . new clause 106 do not attempt to restrict access to abortion , and I would not support it if it do . instead , it would act as an important safeguard to protect woman from emotional trauma and physical harm . let I begin by emphasise that all woman in England and Wales can access safe , regulated abortion on the NHS under our current law . I also recognise and respect that there be strongly hold view across the House on this highly sensitive issue , and I welcome the consider and informed debate we have have today . the Government maintain a neutral stance on change the criminal law on abortion in England and Wales . we maintain that it be for Parliament to decide the circumstance under which abortion should take place , and will allow member to vote accord to their moral , ethical or religious belief . if it be the will of the House that the criminal law on abortion should change , whether by our exempt pregnant woman from the offence or otherwise , the Government would not stand in the way of such change . however , we must ensure coherence between the statute book and any legislation propose . it will be helpful if I first set out the relevant law . as hon . member will know , in England and Wales , the criminal offence relate to abortion must be read in conjunction with the provision of the Abortion Act 1967 , which provide exemption to the criminal offence . the Act define the circumstance in which abortion or termination can legally take place . section 58 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 be the offence of administer drug or use instrument to procure an abortion . it be an offence for a pregnant woman to unlawfully take a drug or use instrument with the intent of procure her own miscarriage . it be also an offence for another person who have the intent of procure the miscarriage of a woman , whether or not she be pregnant , to unlawfully administer drug or use instrument with that intent . it be also an offence under section 59 of the 1861 Act for a person to supply or procure drug , poison or an instrument that be intend to be use to procure a miscarriage . the Infant Life ( Preservation ) Act 1929 deal with act in the later stage of pregnancy , include late - term abortion in England and Wales . under section 1 of the 1929 Act , it be an offence for any person to intentionally destroy the life of a child before it be bear , if it be capable of be bear alive , unless it can be prove that the act be do in good faith and only to preserve the life of the woman . turn to the amendment , the purpose of new clause 1 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) , be to disapply criminal offence relate to abortion from a woman act in relation to her own pregnancy at any gestation . this mean that it would never be a criminal offence for a pregnant woman to terminate her pregnancy , regardless of the number of week of gestation , include beyond the 24 week . will the Minister give way ? I apologise , but I will not . we be really short on time . it would also not be a criminal offence for a woman to intentionally deceive a register medical practitioner about the gestation of her pregnancy in order to procure abortion pill by post beyond the 10 - week time limit . it would remain an offence for another person , such as a doctor , to do the relevant act , and for a pregnant woman to do the relevant act for another woman , unless the provision of the Abortion Act be apply . new clause 1 seek to ensure that a woman can not commit an offence in relation to her own pregnancy under the law relate to abortion , include under section 58 and 59 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 , and the Infant Life ( Preservation ) Act 1929 . the phrase " relate to abortion " be not define in the clause but in practice will be limit to these provision , as there be no other offence that relate to abortion in England and Wales . it be suggest during the recent Westminster Hall debate on decriminalise abortion , and again today , that the risk with new clause 1 be that it create a general power for the Secretary of State to amend the Abortion Act 1967 or the relevant criminal legislation relate to abortion . I would like to clarify that new clause 1 do not create such a power , nor do any other provision of the Crime and Policing Bill . new clause 1 do not grant the Secretary of State additional secondary legislation power , while clause 166 of the Bill do grant the Secretary of State a regulation - make power in relation to the provision of the Bill . that can only be exercise to make provision that be appropriate in consequence of the Bill ' s provision . it would not , for example , give the Secretary of State general power to make substantive amendment to the Abortion Act 1967 in order to change the rule about abortion , or to amend the offence against the Person Act to reintroduce criminal offence , as that would not be consequential to new clause 1 . I turn to new clause 20 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) , which would repeal exist criminal offence relate to abortion and concealment of a birth , place a duty on the Secretary of State to implement certain recommendation relate to abortion service , and create regulation - make power regard criminal offence relate to abortion . will the Minister give way ? I will not give way . this be a complex new clause , and I will not address all of its provision or the policy intention behind they . however , I will highlight area where the House may want to consider whether the duty or delegate power may be unclear or give rise to unintended consequence . I acknowledge that my hon . friend ' s approach seek to mirror the model use to decriminalise abortion in Northern Ireland . however , it be important to recognise that the circumstance in Northern Ireland at the time be markedly different from those in England and Wales . there be no function Executive , no provision of abortion service except in the most exceptional circumstance and no equivalent to the Abortion Act 1967 , so provision have to be make to create a regime for abortion service . as such , the approach to decriminalise abortion in England and Wales , where the provision and regulation of lawful abortion already exist , need to reflect the distinct legal context . new clause 20 would impose a duty on the Secretary of State to implement paragraph 85 and 86 of the convention on the elimination of all form of discrimination against woman in England and Wales by use the regulation - make power in subsection ( 8 ) . the CEDAW report contain recommendation relate to the criminal law on abortion , which would , in so far as they relate to England and Wales , already be address by the repealing of the offence through subsection ( 2 ) and ( 4 ) of the new clause . the report include recommendation that go beyond the provision of abortion service , such as on the provision of sexual and reproductive health and education . as I have mention , the CEDAW report and its recommendation be develop in the specific context of Northern Ireland and therefore reflect the position there at the time . the position in England and Wales be different , with exist guidance , service and legislation that already address many of the report ' s recommendation . I turn to the criminal law aspect of the new clause . subsection ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) would repeal section 58 to 60 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 , as well as the Infant Life Preservation Act 1929 . repeal those offence would remove criminal liability for a woman act in relation to her own pregnancy and would also decriminalise any other person do the relevant act to a pregnant woman , or in relation to the body of a child . for example , there would no long be a specific offence to cover case of forced abortion . that would mean that situation in which an individual subject a pregnant woman to violence with the intention of cause a miscarriage would be deal with under different offence relate to assault and bodily harm rather than section 58 of the Infant Life Preservation Act . the moratorium on investigation and prosecution contain in subsection ( 4 ) would discontinue such case . therefore , those suspect of force a woman to have an abortion before the offence be repeal could not be investigate for those offence . subsection ( 2 ) seek to repeal section 60 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 , which criminalise conceal a birth by dispose of a child ' s body after its birth . unlike section 58 and 59 of the 1861 Act , that offence be not limit to abortion - relate act . repeal it entirely could therefore create a gap in the law regard non - abortion - relate concealment of birth follow a child ' s death . while I understand the concern of my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow about investigation under section 60 relate to allege illegal abortion , a full repeal may have unintended consequence . I will briefly address a point that my hon . Friend make about exist offence that cover this matter . the offence of pervert the course of justice require a positive act couple with an ulterior intent that the course of justice will be pervert . therefore , it be not necessarily the same and we do not want to provide unintended consequence . it be important to note that subsection ( 12 ) grant the Secretary of State regulation - make power in the light of the repeal of these offence , subject to certain restriction . the power could be use , for example , to create offence specifically target at force abortion or conceal a birth by dispose of a child ' s body . while I do not comment on the policy intent , the House typically exercise its full power of scrutiny over the introduction of new and serious offence , rather than confer a power on the Secretary of State to do so through secondary legislation . new clause 106 , which be table by the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) , deal directly with the Abortion Act 1967 . the intended purpose of the new clause be to require woman to attend an in - person consultation . section 1 ( 3d ) of the Abortion Act 1967 do not apply to consultation that take place before the medicine be prescribe . woman would therefore continue to have remote consultation for prescription of the medicine , but would then be require to travel to a hospital or clinic for an in - person consultation before be able to self - administer the medicine at home . alternatively , woman could have an in - person consultation to be prescribe the medicine and then the medication could be post to the woman at home . the overall effect of this new clause would mean that no woman could legally have an at - home early medical abortion without an in - person consultation . in conclusion , if it be the will of Parliament that the law should change , the Government , in fulfil our duty to ensure that the legislation be legally robust and workable , will work closely with my hon . friend the Members for Gower and for Walthamstow to ensure that their new clause accurately reflect their intention and the will of Parliament , and be coherent with the statute book . as I have already state , the Government take no position . I hope these observation be helpful to the House when consider the new clause . question put , that the clause be read a second time . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Gideon Amos Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Olivia Bailey Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Aphra Brandreth Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Jessica Brown - Fuller Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Charlotte Cane Sam Carling Alistair carn David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Victoria Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Adam Dance Steve Darling Emily Darlington Edward Davey Ann davy Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Bobby Dean Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Jim Dickson Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Luke Evans Hamish Falconer Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes will Forster Paul Foster Daniel Francis Z ö e Franklin James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Sarah Gibson Tracy Gilbert Rachel Gilmour Becky Gittins Olly Glover Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Claire Hanna Monica Harding Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Pippa Heylings Chris Hinchliff Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Clive Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Paul Kohler Sonia Kumar Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister James MacCleary Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Kit Malthouse Amanda Martin Mike Martin Keir Mather Brian Mathew Alex Mayer Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Anna McMorrin Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Freddie Van Mierlo Ed Miliband Calum Miller John Milne Navendu Mishra Andrew Mitchell Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Tom Morrison Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Susan Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Sarah Olney Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Manuela Perteghella Jess Phillips Al Pinkerton David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Joshua Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Mark Sewards Michael Shanks Neil Shastri - Hurst Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Lisa Smart Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart Jamie Stone will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami David Taylor Rachel Taylor Cameron Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Laura Trott Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Luke Taylor Katrina Murray Tahir Ali Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Sureena Brackenridge Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell James Cartlidge Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock Tom Collins John Cooper Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Jonathan davy Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Chris Evans Luke Evans Linsey Farnsworth Tim Farron Patricia Ferguson Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mary Foy Mark Francois Louie french Richard Fuller Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Jonathan Hinder Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Mike Kane Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Danny Kruger John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Angus MacDonald Alan Mak Rachael Maskell Jerome Mayhew Douglas McAllister James McMurdock Frank McNally Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Margaret Mullane Andrew Murrison Pamela Nash Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Toby Perkins Chris Philp Sarah Pochin Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Marie Rimmer Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Sam Rushworth Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stringer Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Anna Turley Derek Twigg Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Imogen Walker Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Mohammad Yasin Andrew Snowden David Simmonds the House divide : Ayes 379 , Noes 137 . question accordingly agree to . new clause 1 read a second time , and add to the Bill . proceeding interrupt ( Programme Order , this day ) . the Chair put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order No . 83d ) . New Clause 106 - abortion : requirement for in - person consultation " in section 1 ( 3d ) of the Abortion Act 1967 , omit ' , by telephone or by electronic mean ' . " — ( Dr Caroline Johnson . ) this new clause would mean that a pregnant woman would need to have an in - person consultation before lawfully be prescribe medicine for the termination of a pregnancy . bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Suella Braverman Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Jonathan davy Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Chris Evans Tim Farron Patricia Ferguson Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mary Foy Mark Francois Louie french Richard Fuller Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Jonathan Hinder Damian Hinds Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Terry Jermy Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Mike Kane Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Angus MacDonald Alan Mak Rachael Maskell Jerome Mayhew Douglas McAllister James McMurdock Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Sarah Pochin Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Marie Rimmer Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Sam Rushworth Jim Shannon Alec Shelbrooke David Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Derek Twigg Martin Vickers Matt Vickers John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Andrew Snowden David Simmonds Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Gideon Amos Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Olivia Bailey Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Steve Barclay Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Aphra Brandreth Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Jessica Brown - Fuller Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Charlotte Cane Sam Carling Alistair carn David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Victoria Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Adam Dance Steve Darling Emily Darlington Edward Davey Ann davy Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Bobby Dean Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Jim Dickson Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Luke Evans Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes will Forster Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis Z ö e Franklin James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Sarah Gibson Tracy Gilbert Rachel Gilmour Becky Gittins Olly Glover Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Pippa Heylings Chris Hinchliff Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Clive Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Seema Malhotra Kit Malthouse Amanda Martin Mike Martin Brian Mathew Alex Mayer Martin McCluskey Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Anna McMorrin Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Freddie Van Mierlo Ed Miliband Calum Miller John Milne Navendu Mishra Andrew Mitchell Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Edward Morello Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Tom Morrison Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Susan Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Simon Opher Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Manuela Perteghella Jess Phillips Al Pinkerton David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Joshua Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Mark Sewards Neil Shastri - Hurst Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Lisa Smart Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart Jamie Stone will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami David Taylor Rachel Taylor Cameron Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Laura Trott Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Helen Whately Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Luke Taylor Katrina Murray the House divide : Ayes 117 , Noes 379 . question accordingly negative . clause 170 - Commencement Amendment make : 1 , page 189 , line 22 , after subsection ( 2 ) ( c ) insert — " ( ca ) section [ Removal of woman from the criminal law relate to abortion ] . " — ( Tonia Antoniazzi . ) this amendment be conditional on the introduction of NC1 . it would bring the new law into force on the day the Act be pass . Bill to be far consider tomorrow . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . irrespective of our position on the vote that we have just take , we have to acknowledge that we have make a major change to abortion law , yet that be on the basis of no evidence session , no Committee stage scrutiny , and just 46 minute of a Back - Bench debate and a wind - up speech by a Minister who refuse to take any intervention , when the Chamber be full of one - line debate . if we want to continue like this , can you advise I , Madam Deputy Speaker , on how we can improve our rule , so that we do not have this situation in the future ? Mr Mayhew , to be clear , nothing have happen that be out of order . your point be more one of frustration than process and procedure , and it be not a point of order for the Chair . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Betting , Gaming and Lotteries that the draft Casinos ( Gaming Machines and Mandatory Conditions ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 12 May , be approve . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) question agree to . Prostate Cancer Treatment Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) Joe Biden ' s recent diagnosis have to some extent put prostate cancer in the spotlight of late , but it be not just he — there be Stephen Fry , Jools Holland and Robert De Niro . More than 50 , 000 man in the UK and 1 . 4 million man worldwide be diagnose with prostate cancer yearly , which be project to double by 2040 . with one in eight man diagnose during their life , it be the most common male cancer . More than half of those man be pre - retirement age , such as the cyclist Sir Chris Hoy , who be diagnose at 48 , but 70 - plus be the most common age . my late dad be 69 when he be diagnose . he leave this earth just shy of his 79th birthday in August 2014 , so he have 10 year . it be often say that man die with prostate cancer , not of it . with my dad , it spread to bone cancer , but pneumonia be actually the cause of death on the certificate . I miss he every day . treatment for prostate cancer have improve dramatically since then . one crucial breakthrough be the development of the drug abiraterone , a great british success story discover and initially develop in London at the Institute of Cancer Research . it be a shine example of british science lead the world and revolutionise advanced prostate cancer care . will the hon . member reiterate a question that I have for the Minister ? specifically , give that abiraterone be already approve for use in Scotland and Wales , what action be the Minister take to ensure that man in England be not disadvantaged in access lifesave cancer treatment ? the hon . member read my mind about the postcode lottery , which I will come to in my list of question . I know that my hon . friend the Minister be very sympathetic and on the right side . abiraterone be now a global drug . half a million man around the world have have transform outcome , improve quality of life and extra year spend with love one . will the hon . Lady give way ? yes , I will . what an honour to give way to the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) ! I thank the hon . Lady for bring forward this debate ; she be absolutely right to do so , and I congratulate she on that . she may not be aware that abiraterone be not routinely available in Northern Ireland for man with high - risk hormone - sensitive metastatic prostate cancer , unlike in Scotland and Wales . it be primarily approve for man with advanced prostate cancer that have already spread . while it can be access through an individual funding request process , it be not a standard first - line treatment option . do she agree that man in Northern Ireland and right here in England should be able to access treatment that be available in Scotland and Wales ? the hon . Gentleman make a powerful point . we be see a theme of uneven application . the rule of law mean that the law apply to everyone , so it look like something have go wrong here . I thank the hon . Lady for secure this important Adjournment debate . we have hear from a number of member who have constituent who be affect or have frustration with the current system . I meet a gentleman call David in the run - up to the general election who have metastatic prostate cancer and be not eligible for abiraterone . he ask I if we would push and do what we could in Parliament to ensure that people such as he could get the drug . he be fortunate and can afford to pay for it privately , but not everyone be in that situation . this be about ensure that we have equality of access for everyone , regardless of their financial circumstance . do the hon . Lady agree that we need to have another look at this issue ? I completely agree with the hon . gentleman that access should be base not on how deep somebody ' s pocket be , but on need . abiraterone halve the risk of relapse . each relapse literally cost the NHS million — the definition of lose - lose . as many member have point out , it be already successfully available on the NHS and routinely fund for use in metastatic case in England , but sadly there be a catch : abiraterone be not available on the NHS for man with non - metastatic prostate cancer live in England . I thank my hon . friend for bring forward this very important debate for her constituent , my constituent and people in the UK . do she agree that since this issue be last assess by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence , there have be significant development , as have be mention by other colleague , both in the provision of the drug in other nation and the fact that it be now available off - patent , so it be much cheap to access ? that will fundamentally change the cost - benefit analysis that NICE do previously . do she agree that her constituent and my constituent need this drug just as much as patient in Scotland and Wales who be benefit from it ? I totally agree . West London need the same as the west of Scotland , the west of Wales , and all the other bit of those other nation . man can access abiraterone on the NHS in Scotland and Wales , but not in England , even with an identical diagnosis . it seem at well anomalous that their postcode , not their prognosis , be determine their treatment , and we all know that the NHS be mean to be free at the point of need . I would give anything to have have long with my dad . I be remind of he when , like the hon . member for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Tom Gordon ) , I have someone come to see I : Peter Treadgold , who come to my advice surgery and point out that he be fall between the crack . he have a long - stand diagnosis , with remission , and he diligently follow all the advice . he be under NHS monitoring for 20 year because he have heighten prostate - specific antigen level , although he be never actually offer an MRI or ultrasound scan . last year , his cancer come back , and he be tell that he would need hormone and radiation therapy ; abiraterone be not offer . Peter be one of the one in three people who get the devastating news that their cancer have come back , and have be deny access to a treatment that could save or extend his life . the first time I hear of abiraterone be when I meet Peter , because as my hon . friend the Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Danny Beales ) say , in my dad ' s day , it would not have be cost - efficient . however , it be now a generic drug — it have go off patent — but it be license only for metastatic case . as my hon . friend the Minister know well , there be a complicated , convoluted process involve in get it approve for non - metastatic case . there be no question about the effectiveness of abiraterone . it have have one of the big trial know to mankind , a genuinely world - beat trial . when NHS England ' s own clinical priority advisory group plot the clinical benefit against the net cost , abiraterone score highest in that tabulation . it be calculate that two year of abiraterone treatment would halve the death rate for man with locally advanced prostate cancer , but we hear about budgetary challenge . I have write to the Minister and table question , and have be tell that NHS England have not identify the recurrent budget to support provision of the drug . we should look long - term , at the remission , and at the cost of chemotherapy , hospital appointment and other associate thing . those cost add up . University College London find that abiraterone would pay for itself if it be £ 11 a day . do member know what the NHS be actually pay ? do anyone want to hazard a guess ? oh , we be not do call and response . abiraterone cost £ 2 . 75 a day , now that it be off patent and have come down in price . that be less than three measly quid to avoid costly relapse , scan , chemo , hospital appointment and everything else — less than three little round one to improve life and reduce death . as we have hear , only people who can fork out up front for private treatment or private medical insurance currently have that option , and again , our NHS be not mean to be for private profiteering or big pharma drug pusher . People be see their pension and life saving evaporate , and we be in a cost of living crisis . this drug should be universally available . it take less than one year for abiraterone to be approve for man with non - metastatic prostate cancer in Scotland and Wales . in England , it be now three year and counting , and we still have not have a concrete resolution . right now , abiraterone be the cheap and most cost - effective it have ever be , and as the excellent Prostate Cancer UK put it , the postcode lottery must end . Lord Darzi ' s independent investigation into the NHS find that the UK have high cancer mortality rate than other comparable country , and sadly , progress in diagnose cancer at stage 1 and 2 be flatline . just over half of prostate cancer be catch at an early stage . that fall well short of the NHS target of 75 % . I appreciate that Labour have just come into power after 14 year of the conservative party , so it will take time to fix our health system , but we need it to be more responsive — to act early and rapidly , to use all the tool it can , and to offer preventive rather than after - the - fact care in every case . abiraterone exemplify all those thing . I welcome the Chancellor ' s 3 % real - term increase in NHS spending to deliver the exciting plan to build an NHS fit for the future . with the 10 - year plan come soon and the national cancer strategy due this autumn , we have a real chance to deliver significant improvement for people live with cancer , so as be customary , I have a list of question for the Minister . I will incorporate those of my hon . friend — I think we be all friend here , even if we sit on opposite side of the Chamber . first , will the Minister commit to explore way of ensure that additional NHS funding be use to make abiraterone available to all man who need it in England — and in Northern Ireland , as the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) have point out ? secondly , will the Minister support the introduction of a national programme of screen for prostate cancer , like those that we have for comparable cancer in the United Kingdom ? thirdly , give the complexity of NHS England ' s decision - make process in relation to the availability of abiraterone — which sound like a right old bureaucratic nightmare — as the function of NHS England be transfer back to the Department of Health and Social Care , will the Minister take step to ensure that all decision about access to medicine , include abiraterone , be timely and transparent ? I know that she have have a long career in the NHS , and as I have say , she be on the side of the angel . fourthly , will the Minister commit to publish an equality impact assessment , give the disturbingly disproportionate effect that prostate cancer be have on black man , who be more likely to develop it and to receive a late diagnosis , and less likely to receive the right treatment ? I be do this partly for Dad , who be watch from somewhere up above , but also for the black and minority ethnic man who be implicate here and now . this be the second time that you have be in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker , when I have be talk about health inequality since Friday , when we discuss assist dying . you have chair both debate excellently . fifthly , in the light of the lengthy approval process , will the Minister assess the adequacy of the funding formula model — we have NICE and we have the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency , and it all seem a bit knotty — and consider whether novel pharmaceutical treatment could be produce cost - effectively , especially , as my hon . friend the Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip say , when they come off - patent . I be argue for simplification in case in which drug be already prescribe for limited use and there be a credible case for expand their application to a generic treatment . we be halfway there ; we just need to go that little bit far . Prostate Cancer UK estimate that 672 man die prematurely each year because we have no access to abiraterone . each week that this continue , 13 man in England will die from a cancer that could have be treat cheaply have they live in Scotland or Wales . labour be the party of the NHS , and a Labour Government introduce the UK ' s first dedicated cancer strategy ; so let we go for this win - win for all , end the iniquitous , unjust postcode lottery , celebrate the good of british science , and widen access to abiraterone for all those who need it , not just those who can afford it . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Ealing Central and Acton ( Dr Huq ) for secure the debate , and I thank the other member who have speak . as my hon . friend have say , more than 50 , 000 man be diagnose with prostate cancer every year , and one in eight will be diagnose with it during their lifetime . I commend she for raise an issue that I know be very personal to she , as she have articulate so well . I be sure that her late father be watch she carefully . she be also right to support her constituent Peter by raise this issue , which affect so many man , and to highlight the number of black and minority ethnic man present with the disease . that be something on which we have all campaign very strongly . timely and equitable diagnosis and access to innovative medicine for the treatment of prostate cancer be of the utmost importance . to support fast diagnosis , NHS England have redesign pathway to maximise capacity . we be also aware of very early - stage trial of the use of artificial intelligence in prostate cancer detection , and we look forward to a formal report on those trial , so that the evidence can be consider carefully . the effect of prostate cancer have be well note tonight , as have the number of man who be affect . about 12 , 000 die from it each year , more than 300 of they in Northern Ireland . do the Minister agree that Northern Ireland should be include in the commissioning , and will she undertake to speak to the Health Minister in Northern Ireland about the issue ? do she also agree that this need to sit alongside a UK - wide prostate cancer screening programme , target in particular people with a family history of the disease ? we talk regularly with our colleague in Northern Ireland , and I be always happy to do so . as the hon . Lady know , this matter be devolve , so it be a matter for Northern Ireland , and we respect the devolution settlement . our elective reform plan , publish in January 2025 , build on the investment already make with an ambitious vision for the future of diagnostic testing . this will include more straight - to - test pathway , increase and expand community diagnostic centre , and well use of technology . with nearly 170 community diagnostic centre up and run , they can take on more of the grow diagnostic demand in elective and cancer care . we will also deliver additional capacity in 2025 - 26 by expand some exist centre and build up to five new one . we will address the challenge in diagnostic waiting time , provide the CT , MRI and other test that be need to reduce the elective and cancer wait . member know that the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence — we have hear a little about it this evening — be an independent body responsible for assess whether new licensed medicine can be recommend for routine use in England , base on a thorough assessment of their clinical and cost effectiveness . the NHS be legally require to fund NICE recommend medicine , ensure consistency of access for NHS patient wherever they live in England . NICE be able to recommend promise new cancer medicine for use through the cancer drug fund , which support patient access while real - world evidence be generate to address clinical uncertainty . through the cancer drug fund , NHS patient also benefit from access to cancer medicine from the point of positive draft nice guidance , accelerate access to clinically and cost effective medicine by up to five month . through this process , many thousand of patient , include patient with prostate cancer , have be able to benefit from effective new treatment at price that represent value to the NHS . the drug that be the subject of this debate , abiraterone , be license , as my hon . friend the Member for Ealing Central and Acton say . it be recommend by NICE for use in the treatment of certain type of metastatic prostate cancer , and it be now routinely available to NHS patient in England in line with the NICE recommendation . NHS England have recently put in place an interim commission policy that make abiraterone available for man with high - risk , hormone - sensitive metastatic prostate cancer , pende the outcome of NICE ' s update of its negative guidance . I be pleased that this approach be agree between NICE and NHS England late last year to ensure uninterrupted access to abiraterone for man leave the STAMPEDE trial . my hon . friend raise particular concern about access to this drug for man with non - metastatic prostate cancer . first , it be important to note that abiraterone be not license by the MHRA for use in this indication , and it be therefore off - label . NICE do not evaluate the off - label use of medicine , and the drug be also now off - patent and available generically , which mean there be no single manufacturer that could sponsor an MHRA licence application or nice evaluation . it be therefore for NHS organisation to take decision on funding base on the available evidence . NHS England consider abiraterone for the treatment of non - metastatic prostate cancer through its clinical prioritisation process last year . through this process , NHS England conclude that evidence support the routine commissioning of the drug in this indication . approximately 7 , 000 man per year could be eligible for this drug , and it be estimate that it would cost an additional £ 20 million per year to fund that . while , as my hon . Friend say , there may be some cost saving in the pathway from prevent the disease ' s progression , these be unlikely to materialise for about five year and would not impact the up - front cost of the £ 20 million per year for the additional out - patient monitoring and drug cost . I have not hear the figure she outline , but I will get back to she on some of the question she ask , and it would be helpful to know where those figure be from . unfortunately , it have not be possible to identify the necessary current funding to support the commissioning of abiraterone for this purpose or any other treatment in this prioritisation round . I know that be disappointing for those affect , and I want to acknowledge that this be a really difficult and unusual situation . however , I want to assure my hon . friend and other hon . member that the funding position for this treatment do not mean that there be no treatment option . the nice guideline on prostate cancer recommend the treatment of non - metastatic prostate cancer with surgery and radiotherapy . I want to assure hon . member that NHS England be keep this position under review , and would reconsider funding for abiraterone for non - metastatic prostate cancer if the funding position change . early this month , NHS England meet Prostate Cancer UK , which share its financial model of the expect cost impact . NHS England be review this in more detail , and I encourage it to continue those discussion . in closing , I recognise how hard it be when patient want access to effective treatment . I also recognise the distress and worry it cause not only for patient , but for their family and friend . the Government be commit to ensure that we provide access to the most innovative and effective medicine , but it have to be in a way that be sustainable and affordable for the NHS . it be right that NHS England continue to engage with Prostate Cancer UK , and I know that my hon . friend and other member will keep an eye on this and similar issue with drug come forward . the national cancer plan will seek to improve every aspect of cancer care , to well the experience and outcome of people with cancer . our goal be to reduce the number of life lose to cancer over the next 10 year . I be grateful for the opportunity to respond to the debate this evening . question put and agree to . House adjourn .