it be a pleasure to speak in this important debate and express my support for the Bill . for far too long , school child have bear the brunt of academisation . fortunately , the Labour Government in Wales reject this model , but , have be a teacher on the border for most of my work life and a national executive member of the NASUWT , I have see at first hand the negative impact of academy become the default model , while local authority have be sideline . since the introduction of the Academies Act 2010 , the freedom for academy and free school to set their own pay , term and condition have lead to the exploitation of teacher . for example , teacher at Ark school be expect to work 1 , 657 hour more annually than a maintain school teacher , while earn £ 7 less per hour . the lack of national consistency not only allow these school to undervalue and overwork staff but undermine basic right such as pension scheme , maternity and sick pay . our Bill will tackle those disparity by extend the statutory pay and condition framework to all teacher in academy , ensure great consistency and fairness between academy and maintain school . there be also the issue of admission policy . too many school misuse their control over admission to break with inclusive local authority policy , select what they consider to be a more favourable intake of student . the Bill ' s extension of the power to direct admission to academy will ensure that local authority can secure place for hard - to - place and vulnerable student , rather than allow academy to exercise shameful selective admission . furthermore , by end academy presumption , the Bill take a significant step towards increase academy accountability , empower local authority to well serve the need of their community , particularly help SEND student and reduce reliance on unaffordable independent provider . I hope to see the severe disparity between teacher ' pay and the high salary of academy ceo review and address in future education legislation . we must ensure that funding be direct where it be most need : to teach and learn . this Bill mark an historic first step towards create an accountable and fair education system that will benefit all our child .