prayer the Second Deputy Chairman of Ways and Means take the Chair as Deputy Speaker ( Standing Order no . 3 ) . I beg to move , that the House sit in private . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 163 ) . a Division be call . division off . question negative . climate and Nature Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . the Climate and Nature Bill have be four year in the making . the enormous amount of support that it have garner from campaigner , trade union , scientist , faith leader , non - governmental organisation , business and especially young people mean that it be both an honour and an enormous responsibility to set out what it entail , what it add to exist law and why I believe it address the most important existential challenge of our generation : the intertwine climate and nature crisis . this country have sign up to various international commitment , but we still have work to do to fully connect they to real and measurable action . we need to close the ambition gap between what be need and what be promise , and the delivery gap between what be promise and what be actually happen . that be what the Bill aim to do , because too many metric be still head in the wrong direction . it be important , as the hon . Lady have underline , that we move forward together . she have not mention the National Farmers Union . can she reassure I and other in the House that the National Farmers Union , and the Ulster Farmers Union in Northern Ireland , be happy with the Bill and accept the impact that its proposal will have on they ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . I would be delighted to have that conversation with representative of the NFU in Northern Ireland and to reassure they on that point . as an environmental campaigner for the past 22 year , it have sometimes be easy for I to fall into doomism . wild fire have ravage Los Angeles , flood have devastate Valencia and the recently elect leader of the free world be urge we to " drill , baby , drill " in the name of make America great again , but I do not believe that doomism be helpful . yes , the good time to take bold action on climate and nature would have be 50 year ago , but the second good time be now . the Bill be very ambitious for a private Member ' s Bill , but not ambitious enough for a climate and nature Bill . it be not try to be over - ambitious or pretend to be a silver bullet , but it aspire to answer the question : from where we be now , what be the right next step to take ? the Bill ' s guide principle be that we have a duty to be good ancestor . now that we know what we know about the impact that human activity be have on the liveability of our planet , how do we strike the right balance between present and future thriving ? how do we ensure that we be not steal health , wealth and wellbee from generation not yet bear ? while we enrich our life , how do we ensure we do not impoverish future life ? what do we want our legacy to be — a world with a strip mine next to a rubbish tip next to a shopping mall , or a world with clean air and drinkable river , regenerated soil and vibrant ocean , teem with wildlife and alive with birdsong ? as I speak , I be look around to spot my three young friend in the Gallery — Polly , Amber and Bobby from Gloucestershire youth climate group . I speak to the group recently and , by chance , bump into they on the train into London this morning . when I be their age , I be blissfully ignorant of the loom environmental crisis : they do not have that luxury . they , and the rest of their generation , will face the consequence of our choice here today . I want to be able to look into their eye after today ' s debate and feel proud that this House rise to the challenge , that we do what be necessary , rather than what be politically expedient , and that we pledge to protect their future . what be in the Climate and Nature Bill ? the Bill have be draft by world - lead climate scientist , ecologist and conservationist , and aim to deliver an integrate plan to tackle the twin climate and nature crisis . it would bring massive benefit for local community , include my constituent in the South Cotswolds : improve the air we breathe ; give we clean water to drink , swim and row in ; revitalise local population of cherish wildlife , such as vole , otter , kingfisher and shrew ; and provide cheap energy bill , warm home , green job , well food and happy life . the Bill would create a join - up strategy for the UK to tackle the interconnected climate and nature crisis together . it be the only proposed or actual piece of legislation to create the link between the UK ' s response to climate change and nature loss . we can not solve one without tackle the other . we risk make each crisis bad if they be tackle in silo , so the Bill support a whole - of - Government approach to prevent the issue become siloe . everything in nature be connect with everything else in nature , but sadly not everything in Government be connect with everything else in Government , but it need to be . housing , transport and even health be inter - relate with climate and nature , so we need a strategy that transcend departmental boundary . the CAN Bill would enshrine international commitment make by the UK into national legislation to cut emission and to restore nature by 2030 , as outline in the global biodiversity framework . the Bill would bring the UK public along with that agenda via a climate and nature assembly , which be key to ensure that all voice from across our country be hear , enable worker to transition to low - carbon job and ensure vulnerable community be protect . it provide for a fair and just transition that do not come at the expense of the rest of the world . for century Britian prosper by exploit resource overseas : animal , vegetable , mineral and human . the Bill require the accounting for our environmental footprint to be honest , take into account the carbon emission and impact on nature that be incur overseas in produce the good and service that we enjoy . it be disingenuous to offshore most of our manufacturing , and then congratulate ourselves for have reduce our environmental impact . I be delighted to say that the Bill have a long history of be support by the party now in government . I trust that their ecological concern while in opposition have survive their transition into power , as they be now in a position to act on their pledge . Labour Members may try to tell we that his Majesty ' s Government be already do everything that be in the Bill , but look at the metric , we be still far adrift of where we need to be . ultimately , our future will not be determine by our strategy and intention — nature care only about result . the Office for Environmental Protection recently publish its progress report on the Government ' s environmental improvement plan . it find that the Government be largely off track in achieve their legal environmental commitment . I acknowledge that this Government have be in power for less than seven month , so I do not hold they entirely responsible for that state of affair . but I struggle to see how expand our airport by approve two new runway will help they get back on track . the OEP assessment show that on their current trajectory the Government will meet only four of their 40 environmental target . the " State of Nature " report 2023 show that nearly one in six specie be at risk of be lose from Great Britian , and the UK now have less than half its biodiversity remain . out of the wildlife habitat assess , only one in seven be find to be in good condition . only one in 14 woodland and a quarter of peatland be in good ecological state . none of the seafloor around the UK be in good condition . just 44 % of woodland be sustainably manage , and only half of fish stock be sustainably harvest . it be my view that the Government need to prioritise three thing . the first be support for nature - friendly farming . around 70 % of land in England be use for agriculture . support farmer to manage their land in a nature - friendly way will deliver significant environmental improvement at scale . the key steward of our landscape for hundred of year have be our farmer : no one have do more to make our countryside as beautiful as it be or have a big stake in protect its health for the future . do my hon . friend agree that the path to net zero and sustainable local food production lie through our farming community , with the support provide by the Bill ? if we be to get the good from our farmer , it be time to use rather more carrot and few stick . I wholeheartedly agree with my hon . friend . report by the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs show that nature - friendly farming scheme can be a major pathway for first halting , and then reverse , the decline in species abundance , as well as deliver the majority of habitat creation need to meet the UK Government ' s nature and climate target . my hon . friend be make a powerful speech , and I congratulate she on bring forward this important legislation . like many farm in Glastonbury and Somerton , Camel Hill farm ' s focus on regenerative farming have improve soil quality and nature loss . however , the farming budget have see a real - term funding cut after inflation since 2007 , leave farmer try to restore nature with reduced support . order . if we be to get member in — we all see how many be present in the Chamber — intervention will have to be short and not pre - prepare speech . there be plenty of time for those who have put their name down to speak . member should not use up the time of the hon . member for South Cotswolds for her opening . I thank my hon . friend for her intervention , and applaud she for her work as an effective spokesperson on behalf of the farming community . indeed , she pre - empte what I be about to say . farmer should be properly reward for restore soil , plant hedgerow and reduce pesticide use , with an expand nature - friendly farming budget at the upcoming comprehensive spending review . they need a clear long - term strategy from the government so that they be able to plan and invest accordingly . I commend the hon . Lady for bring this Bill forward . do she recognise that the sustainable farming incentive be move to reward farmer who be furth towards the bottom of the scale , rather than at the high end of it as we would wish to see ? to reward farmer for rotation of crop , for example , seem to be go back to the 18th century rather than ensure a high level of stewardship . my understanding , as a non - farmer , be that crop rotation be an effective way to regenerate soil . the second priority be to create more join - up space for nature on land . through the global biodiversity frame - work , the Government have commit to protect 30 % of land and sea for nature by 2030 . with less than five year to meet that target , a Wildlife and Countryside Link report state that the amount of land in England effectively protect for nature have fall to less than 3 % . the Government should put 30 by 30 at the heart of upcoming planning reform , to ensure that all development be play an active role in nature recovery , and expand the protect site network by designate more significant and rare natural habitat , such as ancient woodland and chalk stream . my third point be about the urgency of delivery , because urgency be lack in the implementation of positive action . the OEP state that the rate of tree planting need to increase substantially to achieve woodland creation goal . meanwhile , long - await major initiative such as a UK chemical strategy and land use framework , and the national action plan on the sustainable use of pesticide , as well as the ban on the sale of horticultural peat and the reintroduction of specie such as the beaver , be delay . I say a big thank you to the hon . Lady for her excellent speech — this be clearly something that she be passionate about , and have be for a long time . do she agree that tree planting be hugely important ? tree be part of our biodiversity , but they also give life to we , and I celebrate the work that Harlow council do in plant 5 , 000 tree across Harlow . I applaud the fantastic work be do in Harlow to increase the number of tree . they be indeed life - enhance and valuable self - contain ecosystem . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for have engage with I about her Bill . she share with I the frustration she have have in discuss its content with the Government . can we get to the key issue here ? she talk about urgency , but be it true that the Government be intent on kick the Bill into the long grass because they do not want to be see to be oppose it , yet they do not really support it ? that be not my interpretation of the Government ' s position , and we have have some fruitful conversation . I shall move on briefly to the climate . while two sector in climate — power and greenhouse gas removal — be on course to meet or even exceed the require emission reduction , significant challenge remain in agriculture and land use , transport , and heat and building . some have query the urgency or indeed the need to reduce emission from fossil fuel , but do my hon . friend not agree that , with 250 people in Somerset alone estimate to die early from air pollution accord to Public Health England , there be other reason why we urgently need to reduce carbon emission ? I wholeheartedly agree with my hon . friend that we can not go wrong in move away from fossil fuel , give the implication for air quality as well as for the climate . I call on the Government to commit significant additional funding to support farmer in environmental delivery on the least productive agricultural land . transport have the big gap of all sector between confirm policy and the emission reduction need . we need to improve public transport , reduce bus fare , increase provision for walk and cycling , and decarbonise the freight sector . much more need to be do on building and clean heat , too . in the Budget , the Chancellor pledge an initial £ 3 . 4 billion towards household energy efficiency and heat decarbonisation , but the current warm home plan fall short of the pace and scale need . a strong future home standard need to be introduce this year , mandate technology such as solar photovoltaic , as per the New Homes ( Solar Generation ) Bill — the sunshine Bill — introduce by my Gloucestershire neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) . I commend the hon . member for what she be do with the Bill . when talk about the future of housing and property , we often focus on energy and water . do she agree that it be important to focus on rainwater harvesting and what can be do in that sense , too ? I very much agree with the hon . Gentleman that the right thing to do be to be much more intelligent in our use of water , which will reduce the demand for clean water and reduce run - off from rainfall , which be become increasingly heavy as climate change kick in . the most significant addition that the Climate and Nature Bill would make to the exist strategy be its join - up approach . of the word in its title , perhaps the most important be " and " . many people be aware that a change climate be damage nature . the wildfire in California this year have claim million of tree and thousand of home . we see expand desert , melt ice cap and british moorland on fire . we see natural cycle get out of sync , so that newly hatched bird , insect and amphibian no long find their favourite food available when they need they . we be less aware of how the loss of nature , the cutting down of forest , the warming of the ocean and intensive agriculture affect climate . it be a two - way relationship . forest , ocean and soil be some of our most effective ally for natural carbon capture and sequestration . healthy soil , along with tree , re - wiggle river and water meadow , help to mitigate flooding and run - off , which be on the increase with ever more intense rainfall . nature ' s ability to perform this moderate role and regulate climate be be compromise by the rate at which we be destroy it . we be damage nature ' s capacity to self - regulate by kill , reduce , pollute and compromise natural ecosystem . activity such as deep - sea mining threaten to make extinct specie that we have not even discover yet — specie that we may one day find to be enormously useful to humanity . we often hear that the UK be one of the most nature - deplete country in the world . " nature - deplete " be a rather sterile phrase . what do it actually mean ? many of the alarming stat on nature use 1970 as a baseline — just a couple of year after I be bear . I remember a time when if we put bread out on the back lawn , within a minute , dozen of starling would be squabble over the crust . I can not even remember the last time I see a starling . head off on holiday in my father ' s Triumph 1200 , we would have to stop while he clean squashed insect off the windscreen . we do not have to do that any more . we often see hedgehog . okay , they be mostly squash on the road , because it turn out that a fear response of curl up in a ball be not all that effective when the threat be an oncoming car , but I ask you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and the House : when do you last see a hedgehog ? the collapse in the hedgehog population be not entirely due to roadkill . they lose their habitat , their source of food and their ability to range and forage as woodland be cut down and urban garden be fence in . if the first half of my life — perhaps the first two third , on a less optimistic estimate — have see such huge damage inflict on our natural world , I hope that in the rest of my life I will see nature put well back on the path to recovery . one of my team member be expect a baby in May , and I would like to commit to Poppy ' s future daughter that by the time she be five year old we will have halt the degradation of nature and that at least 30 % of land and coastal water will be protect . I would like to promise that unborn little girl that by the time she be 25 , we will have reverse nature loss and will be live in harmony with nature , as state in the global biodiversity framework . I thank my hon . friend on behalf of those on the liberal Democrat Benches for her truly impassioned speech and for her work on the Bill . chichester harbour have lose 58 % of its saltmarsh since 1946 — the equivalent of three football pitch every year . do she agree that that need to stop today to ensure that that national landscape and site of special scientific interest be protect for generation to come ? I thank my hon . friend for her intervention . I know Chichester harbour well and absolutely agree that this be vital work . there be hope . nature be enormously resilient and have an amazing capacity to regenerate when we give it a chance . the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds ' appropriately name Hope farm have demonstrate that food production can coexist with benefit to wildlife : breed bird population there increase by 177 % over a 12 - year period . we need to encourage people to get involve — a new kind of land army work together for nature . we need to unlock the local knowledge , energy and passion for nature that I see every day in my constituency of South Cotswolds . I be sure every hon . member in the Chamber have see it , regardless of whether their constituency be rural or urban . one of my especially passionate constituent , Jonathan Whittaker , put together the " Shroud for Nature " , an art piece make of 13 double bedsheet cover with heartfelt message about the Climate and Nature Bill . I have choose a few of those message to read out today . they be : " care for the planet . not just for this generation but the next one . it ' s your responsibility to make sure I have a home . I be twelve year old . " " we all come from nature , by destroy it we be destroy ourselves . " " when will those in power listen and commit ? no nature , no we ! " and " what you do today will change my life forever . " that be from William , who be 10 year old . they continue : " we have the solution ; we have the skill . be we willing to make the change ? " and " leave politic aside . make change for humankind . " now we have a little poem dedicate to the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs : " Secretary of State Steve Reed , do we a good deed " — Order . I appreciate that the hon . Lady be quote from a poem , but we do not refer to right hon . and hon . member by name in the Chamber . can we please ensure that the courtesy of the House be observe ? thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . as the poem will no long rhyme , I shall move on to its second half . it continue : " make the power pay , and make the water clean for our play . " I have well skip the next quote too , as it refer to the Prime Minister rather too directly . I hope that the next line will not get I into further trouble : " we bloom elect you ! listen to we ! " to end on a more positive note : " you have a chance to do something important and good . so do it . " back on to safe ground , I would like to conclude with a few word about why this Bill matter so much to I personally . after I have my environmental wake - up call 22 year ago , I want to find a way to draw attention to my environmental message . for reason well know to myself , it seem like a good idea at the time to embark on a series of massive ocean crossing alone in a rowboat , use my expedition as a campaigning platform to get my message across through blog , social medium , podcast , talk and book . for seven year , I ride solo across three ocean — the Atlantic , Pacific and Indian . at the risk of state the obvious , it be really , really hard . I spend up to five month alone at sea , row for 12 hour a day . what keep I go be my sense that our environmental crisis be literally the most important issue on the face of the planet . I learn a lot on the ocean , and I would like to share three insight that be relevant here . first , the Earth be surprisingly small . I manage to row across a large portion of it at something less than walk speed in just 520 day and night . this small blue dot be now have to support 8 billion of we and our ever - increasingly materialistic lifestyle , with all the extraction , pollution and waste that entail . secondly , nature be incredibly powerful . there be nothing quite like be alone in a 7 - metre rowboat in the middle of a storm to make that very apparent . we may think we have nature tame , but we do not . the recent wildfire , flood and other not - so - natural disaster have make that very clear . even movie star wealth have not be enough to save home from the flame . as a species , we have only be on this Earth for the blink of an eye , but we have transform it out of all recognition . we have gobble our way through its resource in a way that be by any definition unsustainable . there be law of human and there be law of nature . whether or not the Bill make it into human law , for sure the law of nature will ultimately prevail . thirdly , on my journey I see the human face of climate change . when I stop at the Republic of Kiribati on my way across the Pacific , I have a lengthy conversation with the President . with only one point of land more than 6 foot above sea level , his island nation face existential risk . later that year , I see he at COP15 in Copenhagen , just as the talk have fall apart . fifteen year later , we be still not on track to save the Republic of Kiribati . how would we feel if our island nation — where we be bear , where we have grow up and where our ancestor be bury — be about to disappear beneath the wave ? the Bill be about more than target and strategy ; it be a covenant with the natural world and with future generation . it be our promise to threaten specie like the turtle dove , the hazel dormouse and the red squirrel ; to the black poplar , the paperbark maple and the star magnolia ; to the european eel , the Atlantic salmon and the Arctic char that we will not abandon they to extinction . take bold action on climate and nature be the good way for the Government to demonstrate true global leadership and do what be right , know that in the long run the cost of inaction be far , far great than the cost of action . be we willing today to do what be require in the long term , rather than what be expedient in the short term ? be we willing to do not what be politically possible , but what be scientifically necessary to ensure a future for our planet ? the choice be ours , and the time be now . let we be the generation who choose to save our natural world , not the generation who stand by and watch it die . nature know no border . it do not recognise our political division . it be time to write a new chapter in our nation ' s story — one where we finally understand that in save climate and nature , we save ourselves . I invite my colleague to look up at my young friend in the Gallery : look they in the eye , and show they we be willing to do the right thing for their future . I commend this Bill to the House . I thank the hon . member for South Cotswolds ( Dr Savage ) , the promoter of the Bill , for the hard work that she have do to get to this point — it have , I believe , be a baptism of fire . I be sure many people across the House would like to thank she for what she have do to get the Bill back before the House once again . I also thank the Zero Hour campaign — or the Climate and Nature Bill campaign , as it be sometimes call — and all my constituent who have not give I pause to breathe in tell I to get here today , once again , to vote for the Bill . I be sure many other member have experience that , too . do the hon . Gentleman not think that the member who , before they come to this House , campaign in support of the Bill , and agree to vote for it , should be present today to vote for it ? we all understand that it can be difficult for member to come to the House on Thursdays and Fridays ; we need to spend time in our constituency , and many people also have family commitment . I would not for one second want to stand here and judge anyone for what they may have go on in their personal life or in their constituency . however , I know that most member across the House care deeply and passionately about this subject and be here if they can be . I know that many could not be here today , for good reason ; some have sickness , and some have other commitment . I be sure that all member present today will make fantastic contribution , and that those who can not be here be still root for the Bill and will be punch the air at their tv screen . many of we have have constituent come to we on this matter , and the Bill have make many headline . one reason be that it be emblematic of the shortfall that people feel there be between the political ambition and the on - the - ground delivery that we all know need to happen . People may be critical of my government and some of the thing they have do in their first six month — I may come on to that in a minute . I would say , though , that they be do a lot well than the Government who come before . that is , I accept , a low bar ; in fact , it be so low I would have difficulty limboe under it . none the less , that be the bar , and we be do well than the previous Government . I think many Labour Members understand that we have far more to do ; there be much more to do , and a lot far to go , and I believe this Government will do it . there will be a debate and a discussion , and I will be part of that , as I be sure will many member on the Government Benches and across the House . we can not get away from the fact that there be grow concern in this country and across the world about what be happen to the natural world . today , we have a weather bomb off our coast , which be something I have never hear of before in all my 50 - something year . we all know in our heart that that have come about because of the climate and ecological crisis . we know that we be see this kind of thing more and more often . we understand that we may be head into a dystopian future , where food and water crisis become more and more frequent . we can already see the impact of " climateflation " , as economist be now call it — the stubborn inflation where the basic staple of life , such as food and water , increasingly become more costly . many people be increasingly be price out of be able to buy the basic food staple they need . that also have an impact on central bank and the political and economic obligation we have give they to tackle inflation . we have this stubborn inflation that will not go away , and we can not seem to get growth in our economy . this be the climate crisis — this be what it look like . we be warn about it by stern decade ago , but it be here now . we need to do something about it ; in fact , we need to do a lot about it . [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) be chuntere away — he be more than welcome to make an intervention , if he wish . if he do not , I will continue . we understand the situation . the hon . member for South Cotswolds outline very clearly — brilliantly , in fact — the scale of the challenge before we . the fact be that 47 % of the biodiversity in this country have be completely obliterate . we be one of the most denude country in the world when it come to biodiversity and wildlife . I believe one of the few country ahead of we be Singapore , which have 30 % of the natural world leave . that be on the edge — the tipping point — of ecological collapse , and we be not far behind . we should be on 90 % and we be on 53 % . we need to improve . we need to move ourselves . we need to act . the Bill can help we do that . I want to talk about something that we in this place still do not quite get : the interconnectedness between climate and nature . the hon . member for South Cotswolds discuss that very well , and I want to tease it out a bit far . many of we now see tackle the climate crisis as an economic opportunity . I understand that , and there be a lot of mileage in it . however , it be quite possible to tackle the climate crisis — to build solar farm and wind farm , and do all the thing that decarbonise — yet still kill the biodiversity of the planet . it be entirely possible to do both . now that many of we in this place understand the climate crisis , we have to ensure that we also understand the nature and biodiversity crisis . in my constituency of Norwich South , we have something call the western link , which be a massive road that be go to go through an ancient woodland . I do not want to give the hon . member a lesson in geography , but he will recognise that the western link road be in my constituency and not his . obviously , I like to expand the border of Norwich South as far as possible . I will caveat that by say that it be a big issue in my constituency and many of my constituent will use that road if it be ever build , which hopefully it will not be . I have oppose it , as have many people , and it may no long be build because of public pressure . that example be instructive , because we be tell that if we want economic growth in Norfolk , it be necessary to build the road . I be invite down to the ancient woodland , and yes , there be bat there . I know that the propose carbon offsetting would have mean the planting of ten of thousand of new sapling to replace the ancient woodland , which would have ensure that the carbon sequestration take place and that we could still hit our climate target . however , I go down there and see a flint axe head . I see an ancient oak woodland that have be there for ten of thousand , possibly hundred of thousand , of year . the complex biodiversity that be there — the insect , the bird , the mycelium network underneath the ground — be beautiful . I could feel how old it be , and it be go to be bulldoze over and replace with ten of thousand of sapling somewhere else in Norfolk . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? no , I will make some progress . at that point , I understand that it be entirely possible for we to hit our climate target as we rip up and destroy a 10 , 000 or 50 , 000 - year - old woodland . at that moment , I realise that I could never allow the road to be build . we can look at the Amazon forest and campaign about what should not be happen there , but what about our own backyard ? there be a question for the Government — my Government or any government — about growth : what kind of growth do we want ? no one be answer that question . do we want sustainable growth ? what be growth about ? what be we grow ? be we grow pollution in our river ? be we grow road that go through ancient woodland ? yes , that be growth , but be it the growth we want ? do we not want to see growth in well - pay adult social care or renewable technology ? do we not want to see growth in rewilding or sustainable farming ? those be the area where I want to see economic growth . I do not want to see growth that come at the cost of my daughter and her generation ' s future . that be the kind of decision that we in this country and this Government have to make . I be afraid to say that we can not have growth on a dead planet . politician need to understand that ; for too long , we have not . we can not pick growth out of the air and say , " biodiversity will come in second place ; climate will come after . " they be all interlink . we can not have a viable economy unless the climate and nature of our country and the economy be work well together in unity and in synthesis . that be what need to happen . I agree with the hon . member ' s point about the kind of growth we want . do he agree that if the Government be to proceed with expand Luton airport , as rumour suggest , that would fly in the face of advice from the Government ' s own climate expert and economist , who say that it would not deliver the kind of growth that airport expansion use to deliver ? I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention , and that be a great pun — " fly in the face . " this decision have not be take . I , for one , do not believe that it be compatible to have expansion of aviation at these four airport : London , which have already be agree , Luton , Gatwick and Heathrow . choice need to be make here . many of my constituent can not afford to fly . everyone want to see their constituent benefit from the economy , and if we go down that path of expansion , we will be head in the wrong direction . there will be many member on both the Government and the Opposition Benches who do not want to see that . I believe that expand Heathrow be incompatible with have a genuine approach to biodiversity and climate . the Climate Change Committee have already state , before we even get to the seventh carbon budget , that this should not happen . we will need to have a very hard , honest conversation about that . I do not think it should happen . I pay tribute to the hon . member for South Cotswolds ( Dr Savage ) for bring forward the Bill , and to all the academic and campaigner behind it . listen to the debate , I think the one point we need to draw out be that we need robust scrutiny , and we need to be able to hold Government to account through tight mechanism . do my hon . friend agree that it be crucial that the mechanism in the Bill be expedite , to ensure that Government get on with achieve the target that we have all be talk about ? I thank my hon . friend for that contribution , and indeed for the work she have do on climate and nature throughout her political career . of course I agree . everyone understand that in government , there be pressure on Ministers — there be pressure from the Treasury , from business and from vested interest , many of they big and powerful , with big pr and the ability to lobby Ministers in way that our constituent can not and in way that nature can not . squirrel , bat and newts can not lobby like BlackRock and other who want economic growth and profit . this need to be lock in and legislate for ; that be what the Bill be all about . there be organisation and individual — billionaire — who have benefit very much from the last 50 or 60 year of rapacious growth and wealth building . will my hon . friend give way ? I need to conclude , because I believe other member want to take part . we have to understand that there be people who have do very well from this growth . the problem with growth be this : when we get GDP growth in unequal society , and we bulldoze over beautiful woodland forest and expand airport — will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will make progress . when we get that GDP growth in deeply unequal society , it be those in the top 1 % or top 5 % who accrue the benefit . a work - class woman in one of the Brexit debate — and I be a remainer — be tell , " you ' ve never have it so good . you ' ve have growth of 3 % or 4 % for so many year . " she stand up and say , " but that ' s your growth , not our growth . " this be what I be talk about . if we want a sustainable economy and sustainable biodiversity , and if we want to protect nature and ensure that future generation have somewhere to live and have food security and water security , we need to ensure that this Bill , or something like it , become law . we need to ensure that Labour member do the right thing for climate and nature . it be what our constituent want to see . I congratulate the hon . member for South Cotswolds ( Dr Savage ) on her good fortune in have secure a place in the ballot and be able to introduce a Bill that I believe will be very important . I be proud to be a sponsor of it . it be deeply flawed in place ; we all know that . I have be in this place for quite a long time and I know of no private Member ' s Bill that be perfect when it start its journey . however , I hope and believe that it will receive a second reading . if it come to a vote , I shall most certainly support it . old man can bore for Britain . as the grandfather of the House , I be probably just as capable of that as anybody else in this place . I would like to put it on the record that the right hon . Gentleman be not bore the House . give I time , young man . at the risk of go down that path , I should like to take a short ramble down memory lane . I be bring up in Poole , in Dorset . my grandparent ' house have a lilac tree in the garden . in flower , it be smother in red admiral , peacock , tortoiseshell and all manner of butterfly . at night , the garden be full of moth . these day , we be lucky if we see a cabbage white . the little house that we live in be on the edge of Poole Park lake . I play in the park daily ; I use to pluck conker from under the tree during the season for it . I see stag beetle in abundance . hedgehog , which we have hear refer to , roam free . out in the hill alongside Cerne Abbas in Dorset , I walk along country path where my father and I see fox , vole , stoat , weasel , rabbit and , up in the sky , bird of prey feed on they . where be they now ? the World Wildlife Fund say that in the past 50 year — well within my lifetime , but sadly not within the lifetime of most , albeit not all , hon . member present — our wildlife have be deplete by 73 % . as a Poole Member , I recognise those place . will the right hon . Gentleman join I in congratulate Dorset on be one of the only place in the country that have turn around the depletion of nature ? thank to people like Mark and Mo Constantine , we be restore osprey and other bird of prey to our wonderful county . with great respect to the hon . Lady , who be fortunate to represent a beautiful place , the Poole that I know be not the Poole that she now know — not even in the town , never mind in the countryside . although one or two place such as Branksea island , to give it its proper name , may have improve — the overgrowth be take down about 20 year ago in a fire — a lot of our national habitat have nevertheless be lose . that be the point that I be try to make . I be bless with five grandchild . additionally , I have five surrogate ukrainian grandchild and one infant — Florence , the daughter of two of my dear young friend — whom I care about passionately . I want they to be able to grow up in at least some of the world that I know , and to enjoy the natural environment that I enjoy . that be why I be stand here today ; I have no other reason . sadly , I believe that a lot of that be at risk . the planning change that have be partially announce this week — I assume that there will in due course be a further statement to the House — seek effectively to abolish the right to judicial review . in my constituency , National Grid be plan to build a monstrosity , 90 foot high and the size of five football pitch , on the thanet marsh — which it have just discover be wet — immediately adjacent to a site of special scientific interest . if build , it will indeed be a monstrosity , and will be accompany by a string of high - powered , high - voltage pylon . if we be deny the right to challenge that , to whom do we look for redress in the future ? like the last government , this Government be subsidise Drax , to the tune of billion of pound . for why ? to transport million of tree , felled and ship across the Atlantic at God know what carbon cost , to burn in the interest of some sort of future carbon - free fuel — which , of course , it be not . why be we allow this , and why be we pay for it ? those who oppose the Bill — which , as I have already mention , be flawed and will need to be amend — have describe it as ideological rhetoric , an assault on our individual freedom , and a direct threat to our way of life that will lead to food rationing . one constituent write to I to say that only 50 % of our food be produce naturally . why should we be dependent on import the other 50 % ? the answer to that , I be afraid , now lie with the Government ' s house building policy . if the planner have their way , acre of farmland in Thanet that be now produce , this year , grade 1 agricultural wheat from which bread be make will , in a couple of year ' time , be grow house , not food . the National Farmers Union have say , " please do not undermine UK agriculture by import agricultural product produce to environmental standard that be different from ours here . " a couple of week ago , I be visit a friend in Thanet who allow I to hold a facsimile of part of the skull of a Tyrannosaurus rex . the tooth be about nine inch to a foot long . those beast that rule the Earth have be extinct for million of year . we be supremely arrogant if we believe that " Drill , baby , drill " be the answer ; if we believe that we have a right — someone who write to I describe it as a God - give right — to carbon fuel . a couple of week ago there be an exhibition in the House organise by Helping Rhinos , which seek to defend the black rhino , and someone who attend make the case that the black rhino could outlive the human race . we be about to become — if we do not listen today — the author of our own demise , and that be why I believe that the Bill deserve , at the very least , a second reading . from one old fogey to another , I presume . I have never enjoy a speech by the right hon . member for Herne Bay and Sandwich ( Sir Roger Gale ) as much as the one he have just deliver ; he do not bore the House in any way . I pay tribute to the hon . member for South Cotswolds ( Dr Savage ) for introduce the Bill ; it have have a very long gestation , involve many member on both side of the House , but it be good that it have cross - party support . indeed , the first thing I want to focus on be the importance of cross - party support . these issue have cross - party support in the House for many year follow the Climate Change Act 2008 , and that continue until about 2015 . that be tremendously important in the progress that not only we but the world be able to make . People see that it be possible for Parliament to come together and do thing that be consider radical to tackle climate change . latterly , unfortunately , that consensus have break down somewhat , and it be important — it be the duty of all member of the House — to try to repair that consensus and to build on it . unless we do , we will face the sort of future that the hon . Lady and the right hon . member for Herne Bay and Sandwich outline . I be conscious that many people want to speak in the debate , so I will pick up quickly on just three issue in the Bill . first , clause 2 ( 2 ) state : " the strategy must include annual interim target consistent with the achievement of the objective " . those objective be the climate and nature target , and it be great that the Bill make the link between the two ; that be fundamentally important . however , I want to counsel against annual target in this regard . as we know — it be well document in the OEP report that the hon . Lady refer to , as well as in the Climate Change Committee ' s report — there be natural fluctuation annually in what happen around we . sometimes that be because of the El Ni ñ o effect , and sometimes it be for other reason — nobody in the House will be more familiar with the El Ni ñ o effect on the ocean than the hon . Lady . it be important that we understand that sometimes an annual target , to be consistent with the five - year target and the overall long - term target , will look like it be go backwards . we need to look at that very carefully in the Bill . another issue I want to pick up on be clause 3 , on the establishment of the climate and nature assembly . in the last Parliament , six Select Committees come together to convene a people ' s assembly on the climate . that be a wonderful moment for the House , because instead of our tell the people , " this be what you have to do , " the people be tell we , " this be what we want you to do on our behalf . " it be really important that that take place , and it be great that the hon . Lady have include that measure in the Bill . I gently point out , however , that the climate assembly disagree with some of the thing that the Committee on Climate Change tell we be essential to do . the 66 % figure in the clause be actually quite a low threshold . sometimes the report from the climate assembly be clear that people be not prepared to go as far as the Committee on Climate Change and other nature organisation , such as the Joint Nature Conservation Committee , believe be imperative . on who be in charge , there be a failure to connect thing up , because the clause say that if something be recommend by 66 % of the assembly , it must be include in the strategy . we will need to go through those area in serious detail . finally , it be important that the Bill talk about the impact of climate , biodiversity and nature on each other . I pick up on what the right hon . member for Herne Bay and Sandwich — the grandfather of the House , as he style himself — say about Drax . we be go down the wrong road with Drax . I understand the reason why : Drax power station provide 4 % of UK electricity in the power sector . it see as an important area , so the question be , if we take it away , how will we fill it ? but we can not allow the damage to old growth and to virgin forest that we know be happen in Canada . More than that , as have be say by the noble Lord Birt , who have also see some of the whistleblower ' account , as I have , those account make it clear that the Ofgem investigation be correct in say that the sustainability of the feedstock have be not only misreporte but deliberately misreporte . that mean that the people concern in Drax be not fit and proper to run the company , and we should not be pay they — at the moment — £ 9 billion . we have now to decide whether we will subsidise that even far . the impact on biodiversity be disastrous , and although they say it be renewable , it be not within the timeframe to meet the 2050 climate target . it be salient that the previous Secretary of State , after she cease to be the Secretary of State , say , " we know all along that this be not sustainable . " if that be the case , perhaps she should have do something when she be Secretary of State , but it be this Government who must now act to ensure that no further subsidy be pay to Drax . I rise in support of the Bill . as a co - sponsor , I congratulate the hon . member for South Cotswolds ( Dr Savage ) for not just introduce the Bill but the way in which she introduce it . echo the hon . member for Brent West ( Barry Gardiner ) , I congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Herne Bay and Sandwich ( Sir Roger Gale ) on what be a truly outstanding speech . as a number of people have reference , we only have temporary hold of our planet , so let ' s start with a good old biblical quote , Genesis 3 : 19 : " for dust you be and to dust you shall return . " we have only the light of step on our planet , and we need to remind ourselves of that . the arrogance that , as the apex specie , we have take on our shoulder — the idea that we can do anything and some brainbox somewhere will find a way of ameliorate or attenuate it at some point , so it do not matter , should be part of historical political thinking . in that respect , the hon . member for Norwich South ( Clive Lewis ) be absolutely correct . I want to speak to my colleague and my party and to those who would describe themselves as centre - right in the political spectrum . conservative conserve . we be and have be champion of a notion of hand thing on to successor generation . that must mean , in today ' s parlance , not just physical capital of pound , shilling and penny and of asset , but natural capital . my party have a proud and innovative track record on these issue . it be Geoffrey Howe ' s early 1980 budget , in response to the issue of acid rain , that , through the carrot and stick policy , seek to make unleaded petrol cheap than four - star , thereby drive people — another pun , I be afraid — to have catalytic converter . my noble friend John Gummer introduce the landfill tax , and the first hypothecate environmental tax in our country . it be a Conservative Government who introduce the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 , and a Conservative Government who put through the environment act of 1986 , 1995 and 2021 . the Clean Air Act 1956 be introduce by a Conservative Government . excellent work be do by former colleague in this House , such as Michael Gove , Rebecca Pow and other , who take these issue seriously , make the case , and we legislate . the right hon . Gentleman outline articulately how Government legislation can make a positive difference to our environment . do he agree that as well as a relentless focus on housing target , we should also have target for amenity and for nature and green space , so that we can achieve lot of objective and support the aim of the Bill ? the hon . Gentleman be right , and I want to echo the point raise by the hon . member for South Cotswolds . I note the word " or " , but I like the word " and " . indeed , I will share with the House that I be on a particularly stringent January diet . it be slightly work , I think , but there be still a long way to go . ask any member of my family , and they would say , " now Simon , would you like custard or cream ? " and my eyebrow would shoot up at the word " or " , as I much prefer " and " . the hon . Lady be right : climate and nature be two side of the same coin , and have a close , interwoven symbiotic relationship . I say to the hon . member for Didcot and Wantage ( Olly Glover ) in response to his intervention , again echo the hon . member for Norwich South , that of course we must have growth , but too often the didact from both side of the debate say that it be either / or : we can either have a biodiverse natural environment and address climate change , or we can have growth , but we can not have both . well , it depend first on what type and kind of policy we pursue when address co2 emission and the drive to net zero , but also on what type of growth one have . it must be a legitimate anxiety , but I be pretty confident that many people who elect the Labour party into government believe that they would get that fact : that the definition of " growth " need to be reset in order to meet the challenge that we now face . the Budget — I shall be charitable — do not quite land as the Chancellor of the Exchequer hope or expect , and some of the economic indicator be not point in the direction that any Government would like to see . I hope it will not fall on deaf ear — the two Ministers on the Front Bench have a long and respected track record in address these issue when they sit on the Opposition Benches , which I hope they will continue now that they sit on the Treasury Bench . I hope that in order to prove this to people who be anxious about economic growth , and the fact that there do not appear to be very much , it will not be foot - to - the - floor growth of any type , anywhere , in order just to nudge the figure . it have to be the right kind of growth , and sustainability have to be at its heart . as my right hon . friend the Member for Herne Bay and Sandwich ask : be this Bill perfect ? no , and I do not think that the hon . member for South Cotswolds would claim perfection . my right hon . Friend say that he have never see a private member ' s Bill that be perfect and beyond amendment ; I have to say to he that in my nearly 10 year in this place , I have yet to see a Government Bill that could be describe as perfect and without the possibility of improvement by amendment . I say to my right hon . and hon . friend : let we not sacrifice the good in pursuit of the excellent . we have to make progress . be many of the issue address by the Bill difficult ? yes , but what do we all usually say to our child ? " thing which be difficult be usually much more worthwhile seeking to attain than the easy , low - hang fruit . " will the Bill come with cost ? let we be frank : we must all be conscious that we have come through or be come through a cost of living crisis , and inflation have erode people ' s ability to spend and fuel cost be high . but to those who simplistically say , " well , we can ' t afford to do this ; now be not the right time in the economic cycle , " I say , with the great of politeness : if not now , when ? I do not believe that we can afford not to do this . failure to do so would be the long suicide note in history for our specie . on our coastline , there be place that be build below sea level — one think of Canvey Island — so this be not just something that be happen elsewhere , about which we should be slightly anxious but not at all concerned . rise sea level and other change will affect we here at home as well . we need to be careful in our consideration of that . for those who claim a drive concern about the need to control immigration , I say in all sincerity that I do not believe that one can divorce from that address the change to our planet that climate change be introduce , as it will be a major spur for fellow member of our specie to pack up their belonging , meagre or otherwise , and try to find a place of safety for themselves and their family , where they be able to grow a bit of food and sustain their lifestyle , meagre as they may be . to those who say , " hang on a moment , our emission be not too bad , and we ' ve get to look to China and everybody else , " I say : pollution do not respect international boundary . it move on the tide and the wind . we have lull ourselves into a false sense of security , because , in essence , we have export the production of many of our commodity — need , desire and want — overseas . we have say , " look , our manufacturing emission have go down , " but the production of those product be still create emission elsewhere . there be some noble aim in the Bill that we should think about . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? to my neighbour from West Dorset ? of course . I thank my Dorset neighbour for give way . as always , I find myself agree with a lot of what he say , not least on the cost of inaction be far great than the cost of action . he make many good point about the fact that we have outsource our carbon emission to place far away , but do he agree that we often fail to sell the opportunity around tackle climate change , especially for british business , such as those provide by tidal and wave technology ? we should celebrate those opportunity . the Government talk about growth ; there be so much opportunity for growth in this sector , and we should do more . this be get rather worrying , because I agree with the hon . Gentleman . either he be do harm to his political career or I be do harm to what might be leave of mine . I shall leave it to my hon . friend the shadow Deputy Chief Whip to jot that down in his little red book . I find UK manufacturing really strange in this respect , because the trajectory of policy for the past several year have be very clear . we be not try to make our petrol combustion engine go fast ; we be try to make electric vehicle more reliable , less costly , travel far and so on . why have UK plc manufacturing not grab hold of that as a fourth industrial revolution and lead the way , in the way that our forefather do at the start of the first industrial revolution ? we have to look to private equity and other to invest . I be pleased to see an investment in a solar farm in my constituency . I visit the site to see where it be all go to go and how it be go to plug in , and I ask , " if you break down a solar panel , where do the component part come from ? " not a single component have be manufacture in the United Kingdom . they have come from about 12 different country ; the only thing that we have do be assemble they . I say to our entrepreneur and our leader of industry and commerce that we be well than that . we be not just assembler ; we be maker and innovator . we be an island race that have work on free trade and export value , idea and product across the surface of the globe . this be a time for we to lead in the export of actual hard power , and drive forward an international alliance on these important issue . will my hon . friend give way ? dorset be well represent this morning . I will of course give way to my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch . my hon . friend have not mention China specifically , but China be still intent on increase its co2 emission until at least 2030 . as a result , it be able to compete unfairly with what would be UK enterprise if we have not put a stranglehold on it with all these regulatory restriction . how do he expect to deal with the issue of China ? let I respond to my hon . friend by quote one of his great political hero , the noble Lord Cameron of Chipping Norton : just because we can not do good everywhere , that do not mean we can not do a little bit of good here . I understand the point that my hon . friend make . of course we have to be conscious of cost differential , production cost and all the rest of it , but I say to he respectfully that if the rest of the world do something that be to the good , and one or two country decide not to , or go at a slow pace or on a different path , I do not believe we should just stop , shrug , throw it up in the air and say , " oh , well , if not everybody ' s do it , why the hell should we ? " we lead the abolition of slavery . nobody else be do it . we do it because we think it be right . we introduce factory act . nobody else be do it . we do it because we think it be right . we introduce vote for woman . [ interruption . ] not I personally ! I be not as old as my hon . friend ; I have just have a hard life . we have lead . it be what the United Kingdom do . we be not a nation that follow ; we be a nation that sculp , lead , form , challenge , cajole and encourage . will the hon . member give way ? the hon . Lady need encouragement ; she have get it . I rarely need much encouragement . the hon . Member be make an impassioned speech about the fact that this country have lead , and it can continue to lead in this area . he talk about hard power . do he agree with I and my liberal Democrat colleague that if our country be to be well than just assemble part , we need urgently to rip up the red tape that be stop so many of our home - grow manufacturer build the climate technology of the future because of the trade barrier that exist with our EU neighbour ? the hon . Lady be push at an open door . there be much merit in the trade and co - operation agreement that we have with the European Union . that should never have be see as an event ; it should be an evolutionary process , respond to event in a pragmatic and sensible way while always maintain the integrity of the result of the Brexit referendum . she and I be on the same side in that debate . we lose , and we now have to play the hand of card that we have be deal . I have receive email describe I as a " dangerous radical " and a Stalinist . I have be call many thing in my time , but a stalinist dangerous radical be new to I . my North Dorset constituency be about 440 square mile , of which only 12 % be build upon ; the rest be open farmland , hill land , ancient woodland and so on . I have hope that I might have be able to finish my speech by now , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I be just get into the romantic prose . I notice that the clock stand at 10 . 59 am , and I understand that you want the statement to be give at 11 am . I be now in " just a Minute " , talk down the clock without hesitation , repetition or deviation — proceeding interrupt ( Standing Order No . 11 ( 4 ) ) . Unity Contract it be almost a shame to interrupt the flow of the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) . with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to update the House on an important development relate to our Royal Navy submarine fleet that will boost national security and economic growth , and deliver saving to the taxpayer . this morning , my right hon . friend the Defence Secretary be visit the Rolls - Royce nuclear skill academy site in Derby to announce our new Unity contract with Rolls - Royce Submarines . unity be worth around £ 9 billion over eight year and , as its name imply , bring together eight contract into one , cover the research , design , manufacture and in - service support of the nuclear reactor that power the current and plan Royal Navy submarine fleet , which help to keep the nation and our ally safe . this be the big contract that Rolls - Royce have ever have with the UK Ministry of Defence . the contract will help Rolls - Royce to operate in a more integrated and efficient way , drive efficiency , reduce waste , save more than £ 400 million and deliver on the Government ' s commitment to provide value for money for the taxpayer . it will ensure that our committed submariner , who , alongside their family , sacrifice so much to keep we all safe , can continue to protect we around the clock , every minute of every day . not only be this new deal a boost for our national security , but it underpin the Government ' s triple - lock guarantee to our continuous at - sea nuclear deterrent and our important AUKUS defence and security partnership with the United States of America and Australia by enable the development of our next - generation SSN - AUKUS nuclear power , conventionally armed submarine . the Unity contract be also a boost for british industry , for the resilience of our defence supply chain , and for job , skill and economic growth in community in the east midland and across the country . the Unity deal will create more than 1 , 000 new job , sustain around 5 , 000 skilled and well - pay role in total — the majority in Derby , but also around 200 in Glasgow and Cardiff . the deal will also help to deliver the next generation of skilled worker we need in our nuclear defence enterprise , with the Rolls - Royce nuclear skill academy offer 200 apprenticeship each year . unity also pave the way for the use of safe and more sustainable material in our fleet , support the commitment make by defence to well environmental performance . the new contract with Rolls - Royce — an historic british industrial success story — come as we consult industry partner and trade union on our new defence industrial strategy , and as we seek to create a new partnership with Government fit for our more uncertain age . the Government recognise not only that defence be critical for our national security , but that it be a key driver for economic growth . it make the UK more resilient . through our defence industrial strategy , we aim to strengthen the virtuous circle that connect a more resilient UK - base defence sector and economic growth across the country . that virtuous circle will enhance our military capability and in turn make they more resilient , which not only deter our enemy but act as an engine of growth for opportunity , skill and well - pay job across our devolved nation and region . by onshore and put british manufacture first wherever it be in our national interest to do so , we will build on the 200 , 000 skilled british job currently sustain by MOD expenditure , deliver on the Government ' s plan for change and our primary mission to kick - start economic growth , while simultaneously deliver on the first duty of any Government : to keep their people safe . we in this House be all passionate about defence . the defence of our nation should be too important for political point scoring , and I hope we have a consensus on that . it be in that spirit that we be consult on our strategic defence review , so that we have a national plan for defence — not just a labour plan for defence — that will inform our path towards spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence . in that spirit , I thank my predecessor in the role , the current shadow Secretary of State for Defence , the hon . member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) , for the groundwork he put into this deal . what he start , we be finish . on Wednesday , the Defence Secretary update the House on the key role of our submarine fleet and the role it play in deterrence . we all see it ward off the russian spy ship Yantar from UK water . we should be under no illusion : this be just the late example of grow russian aggression target the UK and our NATO ally . in our increasingly dangerous world , the UK ' s nuclear deterrent be our ultimate insurance policy that protect our freedom and our way of life . this deal underpin that insurance policy for the next eight year , as we begin to phase in our new fleet of Dreadnought nuclear - powered and nuclear - armed submarine . this deal also foreshadow a bright future for the UK defence sector , guide by our defence industrial strategy , which will make we more secure and prosperous at home and strong abroad . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the right hon . Lady not only for early sight of her statement , but for her kind word in recognise my contribution to deliver this deal — unity by name and by nature . as with the Annington deal and the UK - Germany barrel - make deal , I can safely say that this deal be profoundly to the benefit of our country . while I would have dearly love to conclude those deal while in office , it be well that such deal be deliver under any Government than not at all , and I be delighted to be respond to the statement today . while it be unusual to have statement on a sitting Friday , I thank the Government for announce this deal to the House today , because it speak to its huge importance to our national interest . before explain why the deal be so important , may I first thank all those involve in bring it forward : those at the Ministry of Defence and the Royal Navy , and in particular the commercial team , who have work so hard to iron out all the complex detail need to get it over the line , and of course Rolls - Royce itself ? on that note , I thank everyone in the defence nuclear enterprise , and , as the right hon . Lady say , we give particular thank , as we always should , to those who crew our nuclear submarine , and in particular the 24 / 7 continuous at - sea deterrent . my personal experience — I be sure the right hon . Lady will have discover this in the many international engagement in the export role that be so important to any Ministry of Defence procurement — be that Rolls - Royce be the single UK defence company , possibly only match by BAE , that seem to have great success in penetrate major export market . visit Raynesway last April to keep this project move forward , I see the sheer scale of Rolls - Royce ' s commitment to apprenticeship and manufacturing excellence . that underline how it be a domestic and international industrial success story for UK plc , and we should do everything possible to support it . the deal be economically crucial , help sustain our sovereign defence nuclear industry , as the right hon . Lady say , and in turn sustain thousand of skilled job . I be strike , while speak to apprentice at both Barrow and Raynesway , that of particular appeal to they be the assurance of a long - term career pathway . today ' s announcement will underwrite not just a major corporate investment , but the life plan of thousand of young people , and I wish they all well . skill remain a challenge , give the sheer scale of the nuclear undertaking , so will the right hon . Lady update we on how she be take forward the work of the pan - civil and defence nuclear skill taskforce , which I launch together with the then civil nuclear Minister , my hon . friend the Member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) , in August 2023 ? this deal clearly build on the good work do by the previous Conservative Government , who always back our armed force , our continuous at - sea nuclear deterrent and our defence industrial base , and who bring the mighty AUKUS partnership to life with the US and Australia . can the right hon . Lady provide further detail on her very welcome confirmation that this deal will underpin AUKUS ? in talk about the economic importance of this announcement , we should also be clear about its military significance . the right hon . Lady be right to refer to the Secretary of State ' s statement on Wednesday regard the russian spy ship Yantar and its grey zone activity in our water and economic zone . I say in response that we stand shoulder to shoulder with the Government not just on Ukraine but in stand up to the russian threat , which I still regard as by far the most immediate and serious in term of the UK homeland . I urge he to lean into be more open with the country about the russian threat , while of course protect operational security , so that the country can understand the nature of the treat and what it will inevitably mean for defence expenditure . the strategic defence review be expect in the spring , and I hope that it will be publish as early as possible — ideally in March — but whenever it be , it appear likely that there will be a particular focus on homeland security and missile defence . that be entirely right , but we must all understand a fact of military reality : there be one UK capability that matter above all in the Kremlin , and that be our continuous at - sea deterrent . there be a strong argument for reinforce our conventional missile defence capability for the UK homeland , but that be not what deter Putin from strike our city ; rather , it be our potential to retaliate . for that reason , we must continue to give absolute priority to the deterrent in our defence budget , and that budget must be urgently increase . whatever else be announce in the SDR , I hope the right hon . Lady will confirm both that investment in our deterrent will remain central to all future plan and that we will hit 2 . 5 % during this Parliament . while the deterrent be inevitably a multibillion - pound undertaking , it remain a way to guarantee our security for a fraction of overall public expenditure . today have show that it also offer a huge economic return to the country , underpin manufacturing excellence . as such , and give the threat that we face , it have never be more vital that we continue to strengthen our defence nuclear enterprise . I find myself agree with a lot of what the shadow Defence Secretary say — unity , indeed . he ask about 2 . 5 % . I think we all agree that defence spending need to increase , and he know well that we have just increase it by 5 . 9 % in real term this come year — it be up by £ 2 . 9 billion — as a step on the way to get to 2 . 5 % , which be a cast - iron guarantee . the hon . Member refer to the strategic defence review , which as he know we say will be come in the spring , and that be still the plan . he will have to wait a little long to see the precise detail of the threat that that identify and , therefore , the capability we need to develop . I think there be general agreement across the House about the danger of thing like the Yantar incident , which the Secretary of State speak about on Wednesday , and we will all have note that it be deal with by one of our nuclear submarine . that reinforce the point that the hon . Member make about the importance of our deterrent . the contract that our Defence Secretary have announce at Rolls - Royce in Derby today be the big Ministry of Defence contract in its history . it will make a major contribution to the long - term investment in our city that I and neighbouring mp have be call for , create 1 , 000 job and protect 4 , 000 more . it be an investment not only in industry and nuclear , but in the skill and expertise for which our city be famous . do the Minister agree that this represent a landmark deal for british defence ? I thank my hon . friend for make that point . she know a lot about the subject , and she be correct that it be a landmark deal . it be particularly beneficial for Derby . as she say , there be many skill there already , but the Nuclear Skills Academy will be create 200 apprenticeship and opportunity a year for young people to get into nuclear skill . of course , those be transferable skill that be relevant not only on the military side but on the civil side , which will give young people with those skill great opportunity in life . that be one of the most important part of the deal . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I welcome this announcement of the UK ' s new Unity contract with Rolls - Royce Submarines . this £ 9 billion investment will create 1 , 000 new job in the industry , and this sort of investment represent a boost for not only our national security but community across the UK . it be right that we celebrate this success for british industry and its skilled workforce . however , while we welcome this development , the Government must go far to create the stability and certainty that business need to thrive . long - term growth require an industrial strategy that incentivise investment in ethical , inclusive new technology such as artificial intelligence and clean energy . we must position the UK as a global leader in these sector , so that we tackle the climate crisis while create good job and drive economic growth . furthermore , we urge the Government to work in close partnership with business of all size . small and medium - sized enterprise be vital to the defence supply chain , yet too often they be leave out of the major procurement process . what be the Government do to ensure that sme be include in the MOD procurement process ? we also want to unlock british business ' global potential by bring down trade barrier and build strong relationship with our close trading partner , include by fix our broken relationship with Europe . universal liberal principle be at the core of what we believe as Liberal Democrats , not least among they internationalism , human right , the pursuit of peace and the rule of law . that be why we continue to champion the liberal , rule - base international order , which provide a strong basis for multilateral co - operation to address the world ' s big problem . the Liberal Democrats believe in a policy of pursue global disarmament . however , in the meantime , and in the light of all the current threat , we call on the Government to maintain a minimum credible nuclear deterrent and maintain the current posture of continuous at - sea deterrence . I urge the Government to rebuild trust with our european ally . our security be inseparable from Europe ' s , and we must work towards a UK - EU defence and security agreement . recent agreement with Germany be promise , but they must be a starting point for deep co - operation . what step be be take to strengthen the AUKUS partnership with the United States and Australia , particularly in the light of concern about potential shift in US foreign policy ? national security and economic growth — order . the Liberal Democrat spokeswoman will be aware that she be allocate two minute , which she have already exceed significantly . I welcome the hon . Lady ' s support for the deal and for our continuous at - sea deterrent ; that have not always be the Liberal Democrats ’ position , so I welcome the fact that consensus have increase in this House . the point that the hon . Lady make about enable sme to get involve in the defence supply chain be tremendously important . we be currently consult on the defence industrial strategy , and I be particularly keen to ensure we take step to make that well , because the potential for innovation , agility and pull - through of new technology be tremendous . I invite she to contribute to the consultation and to watch out for the defence industrial strategy when it be publish . I very much welcome this statement . as the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) say , we need sme to support our defence sector . one of the key challenge face our defence sector , as Ukraine have show , be that we need to speed up the pace of innovation in this new era face defence . in Stevenage , we have many excellent sme support our local defence prime , Airbus and MBDA . will my right hon . friend show her support for what sme be do and support they in the future ? I completely agree with my hon . friend ' s point , which be that sme form a central part of our industrial base and can do more , if we encourage and enable they to do so , to boost our defence , boost job and boost economic growth in all region and nation . I invite he to get involve in our defence industrial strategy consultation , which be ongoing . I welcome the Unity contract and the work do by the previous Government to initiate it . it be a critical step in maintain our submarine fleet and facilitate our continuous at - sea nuclear deterrence . the Minister recently confirm to I that , exclude Trident , our defence spending as a percentage of GDP be actually only 1 . 9 % . that put the UK 23rd of 32 NATO country , below North Macedonia , Montenegro , Albania and other . our non - nuclear NATO partner currently spend proportionally more than we do on conventional force , while Trident be a measure of last resort . to ensure that we be properly resource for high - intensity , multi - domain collective defence , should our NATO spending commitment not be to meet that target on conventional force , with our nuclear capability in addition to that ? I be not sure that be even the policy of the conservative party — the shadow Defence Secretary can confirm whether that be the case . if I may say so , it be a bit sleight of hand to say that take out a big chunk of our spending , which we be actually spend , will leave we well in deficit . of course it would . however , I understand the point that the hon . Gentleman make and the importance he attach to spend on conventional defence . that be an important point , and once the strategic defence review be publish he will be able to see the threat it identify and how we will improve our capability to deal with they . I congratulate the Government and Rolls - Royce on their fantastic and innovative unity project . as today ' s welcome announcement show , defence be a fantastic pipeline for building skill and refine the job and growth that this country need . that be feel and need nowhere more than in my constituency , the home of the Royal Navy and of so many defence company , be they national or sme . alongside my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth South ( Stephen Morgan ) , I intend to hold a roundtable later this year on growth strategy . can the Minister assure the House that the defence industrial strategy will have a focus on training and skill and will promote and prioritise british industry ? I commend my hon . friend for hold a roundtable ; I have do a few of those around the country lately . it be quite illuminating to hear what come back , particularly from small firm , and it will be inform our defence industrial strategy . I agree that there be much potential in all our constituency across the nation and region to get economic growth and job from boost sme . I very much welcome the Minister ' s announcement , but can she tell we where we be get to with the industrial strategy in utilise Rolls - Royce ' s expertise to produce small modular reactor ? there seem to have be a lot of delay in actually deliver on those , yet Rolls - Royce have demonstrate by this contract that it be a lead global player in that field . I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . he be right that there be much innovation in the defence industry in our nation , and often with dual - use technology , which mean that it be not just about defence but about a broad range of potential opportunity . I see no reason why all those opportunity can not be exploit use our defence industrial strategy to kick thing off . I hope to see that in future . as a former official of the GMB shipbuilding and ship repair union , I warmly welcome today ' s announcement . do the Minister agree that an aim of the defence industrial strategy should be to open up opportunity for job and apprenticeship to people from disadvantaged community ? I very much agree with my hon . friend . our defence industry be largely base outside of London and the south - east and be in all our nation and region . quite often they be focus already in area that have some deprivation . my hon . friend be right to identify that defence industry across our nation and region can be a part of regional development as well as boost national growth . the nuclear defence enterprise for the UK be an extortionate vanity project . we would much rather the money be spend on conventional defence capability . the Minister state that the contract will drive efficiency to reduce waste and save over £ 400 million . give that no major nuclear contract have ever come in under budget , how do she expect this to happen ? on the 200 job that will be split between Cardiff and Glasgow , can she let we know when during the course of the contract these job will be deliver ? will it be at the end or early on , and what will the split be between Cardiff and Glasgow ? I open the centre in Glasgow that have some of those job , and I can assure the hon . Lady that it be well under way , and although the Cardiff centre be not quite up and run yet , it soon will be . so those job be already there . I disagree with her first point , of course , but that be fair enough . I hope that she will see the importance of manufacturing skill and job opportunity , many of which have dual - use application , as indeed do the apprenticeship at Rolls - Royce in Derby . there be nothing to suggest that the young people who obtain those nuclear qualification will not go and work on the civil side of nuclear in the future , and even she ought to be able to see the importance of skille up young people and create job opportunity across the nation and region . I think we all want to live in a world where we do not need a nuclear deterrent , but it be clear from some of the conflict we have see recently that that be not the world we currently live in . do the Minister agree that the first duty of a Government be to protect the country , and will she welcome the work be do at Raytheon , which we both visit — it seem a lifetime ago , but it be actually only seven month ago — to ensure that we be manufacture and produce defence system in - house , rather than rely on foreign import ? I very much agree with what my hon . friend have say , and I fondly remember that visit to his constituency during , I think , the general election campaign . defend the country be clearly the first duty of any Government . my hon . friend will have note from the statement of intent in respect of our defence industrial strategy that one of our key aim be to build more in Britain and to improve british job and economic growth through the money that we spend on our defence , and I think that that be a win - win . this deal be absolutely the right thing to do , and I very much welcome the Minister ' s commitment to our continuous at - sea deterrent , which have not always receive universal support on the Labour Benches . my hon . friend the shadow Secretary of State ask the Minister a very clear question about how she see this underpin the AUKUS deal for the long term , but unless my hearing be even bad than I think , I be not sure that she give a clear commitment in that regard . may I give she another opportunity to make absolutely clear this Government ' s commitment to AUKUS and this deal ' s central role in its long - term future ? I be attempt to answer a great many question from the shadow Defence Secretary and do not reach that one , so the hon . Gentleman be right to raise it with I again . the deal enable we to boost production and the capacity that we need in order to deliver SSN - AUKUS as a follow - on from our dreadnought submarine . without it , we would be in much more difficulty in ensure that we can do everything that we need to do on time to deliver those commitment . it be essential to the delivery of our AUKUS commitment , as it be to the delivery of our own continuous at - sea nuclear deterrent . like many people from Gateshead , I be proud to say that I come from a long line of people work in the defence manufacturing industry . can the Minister assure I that this deal , and other defence manufacturing deal , will benefit those in all the nation and region of the country , especially Gateshead ? yes , I can assure my hon . friend of that . this be the big deal that Rolls - Royce have ever sign . it be a long - term commitment between the Government and Rolls - Royce . it increase efficiency and resilience , create job , and make saving . these be virtuous circle , and if we can achieve they in other part of our defence spending , they will benefit the entire nation and all the region within it . immediately before the Minister come to the House , we be debate environmental protection to secure our country and the future of our globe . in the spirit of unity , will the Minister agree that there be little point in talk about environmental protection and security without also secure our world through robust defence spending ? there be nothing bad for the environment and humanity than war , and we need to invest in defence in order to secure our globe and to secure this country . in the spirit of unity — that pun be become a bit wear , but I have just use it , too — I very much agree that the foundation of security and deterrence be a key part of we be able to advance as a nation . without that security , we can not secure any of our public service or our way of life . today ' s announcement will help deliver long - term growth , boost british industry , and create and support thousand of skilled job . can my right hon . friend confirm that a key ambition of our defence industrial strategy will be to deliver job in every nation and region , and indeed in small town such as Rugby , where GE Vernova be do fine work to support the Royal Navy with advanced hybrid electric propulsion technology for the Royal Fleet Auxiliary ' s frontline fleet ? yes , I can confirm that . MOD spending already support over 200 , 000 job directly , and many more besides , and my hon . friend have set out an example from his constituency . the defence industrial strategy will aim to create job in every nation and region of this country . I thank the Minister for a very positive statement — it be always good to have positive statement , and today be one of those occasion . it be great news to hear of the wonderful investment , which be need to shore up not only defence but our manufacturing industry . look at the job allocation , I see that there be 800 job for Derby in England , and 200 for Glasgow in Scotland and Cardiff in Wales . I have no doubt whatsoever about the Minister ' s commitment to job creation , but will she outline how the Government will ensure that business and factory in Northern Ireland can be involve in the supply or provision of part ? particularly , will she outline whether the skill of Harland and Wolff can be utilise in fulfilment of the contract , and whether UK - wide involvement be a stipulation of the deal with Rolls - Royce ? the hon . Gentleman , as ever , be fight for his constituent . he make some good point about Harland and Wolff and skill . we do have defence contract base at Harland and Wolff , and I will be visit Belfast in due course — I will not give he the exact date , but it be soon — in order to galvanise and understand what be available , particularly in the SME community , in Northern Ireland . I look forward perhaps to talk to he about that at the time . today ' s announcement be a fantastic boost to british industry and british manufacturing . in my constituency we have a proud history of support our national security . what step will the Minister be take in the defence industrial strategy to support local economic growth in constituency such as mine in west Wales ? my hon . friend be right that there be great potential for economic growth in all of our nation and region , and in every one of our constituency , in respect of the extra spending that the MOD be now able to offer to keep our nation safe . I be sure that he have sme in his constituency that can benefit from defence contract if we can make it easy for they to engage with defence , which be one of the problem that they all tell I they have at present . as the final word come back to the east midland , I thank the Minister for her hard work . many of my constituent in Rushcliffe work for Rolls - Royce and will wholeheartedly welcome the announcement today . could the Minister briefly explain how skill development will link to the evolve defence industrial strategy , and how she will work with our fantastic Mayor of the East Midlands , Claire Ward , to maximise the opportunity for our region ? my hon . friend be right that skill be key , which be why this deal have establish a defence nuclear skill academy to ensure that 200 apprentice a year can benefit from gain those skill . I have no doubt that long - term partnership with defence industry will enable we to do that on a broad scale . the defence industrial strategy will be a key part of give that confidence to company that it be the right time to invest in skill . I thank the Minister for her statement . while the Ministers switch place , I inform member that we be go to return to the Climate and Nature Bill . climate and Nature Bill Proceedings resume . as I be say — [ Laughter . ] I be tempt to scare the House by say , " have conclude my opening remark , " but I think I have well not . if I may , I will address directly the Minister on the Treasury Bench , the hon . member for Coventry East ( Mary Creagh ) . I want to do so sincerely , because I like and admire she enormously , and I hope she know that . she will know that a vast number of her colleague on the Benches behind she and elsewhere support the general thrust of the Bill and be look for a generous response from the Government , both to avoid have to divide the House and , more importantly , to make progress on these issue , which I know full well she hold close to her heart . I say to she — not in the spirit of any sort of ransom or blackmail — that how the Government respond to this debate will , in many way , shape and sculpt how those of we who support the Bill respond in kind . I will bring my remark to a conclusion . some have say that those who support the Bill be dangerous , stalinistic , anti - farming land grabber . I open my speech by say that I want to speak specifically to my fellow Conservatives , both in this place and across the country , where the siren voice of simplistic populism call to we and try to drag we on to the rock that we would be well advise to avoid . let I close with the word of a dangerous left - wing activist : " it be mankind and his activity which be change the environment of our planet in damaging and dangerous way … we must use science to cast a light ahead " . the same dangerous leftie say : " but the threat to our world come not only from tyrant and their tank " — appropriate , give the statement we have just have — " it can be more insidious though less visible . the danger of global warming be as yet unseen , but real enough for we to make change and sacrifice , so that we do not live at the expense of future generation … we must remember our duty to nature before it be too late . " which radical Stalinist be I quote ? from which Guardian - write journalist be I purloin phrase ? well , it be that dangerous leftie herself : Margaret Thatcher . the first quote be from her United Nations speech in 1989 ; her view , and the view of my party , be form by science and the fact , with her basic university training at Somerville College , Oxford . the second quote be from the second world climate conference , after she have leave office in 1990 . I say to Conservatives today that we would still be well advise to heed her caution , her advice and her word . I welcome the opportunity to speak on the Bill and on this very important subject . I pay tribute to the hon . member for South Cotswolds ( Dr Savage ) for her passionate speech and for give we all an opportunity to discuss this subject . I also welcome the contribution from the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) . it have be very good so far to see so much consensus across the House on this issue . have campaign on climate change before enter this place , and serve a constituency where so many people care about this issue , I know how vital it be that we take bold action to protect our planet . the science be clear : last year be the warm year on record and the first to exceed 1 . 5 ° c of warming above pre - industrial level , and we have see a shocking 73 % decline in average wildlife population size globally since 1970 . I believe this government know how important it be to move rapidly to tackle these crisis . in the context of the Bill , I will highlight some of the measure the Government have take in their first six month that I welcome . the establishment of great British Energy will help deliver green , clean energy and improve our energy security . the nine - year onshore wind ban be lift in just 72 hour of our come into office . we have confirm that we will ban fracke . as a proud co - operative and Labour MP , I welcome the commitment to community energy . this type of leadership be not new from Labour . as have be mention , the last Labour Government lead the way in pass the Climate Change Act , establish a legal requirement for the UK to reduce greenhouse gas emission . of course , we be here to discuss nature as well . as climate affect nature , so nature affect climate . I particularly welcome the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill , which will help clean up our river , lake and sea . I want to talk about two aspect locally . I hope hon . member will forgive I — as many member from Norfolk be here they may have hear some of this before . I will then turn to global aspect . many of the Bill ' s measure will benefit my constituency of Norwich North and the county of Norfolk . that be vital because Norfolk be on the frontline of climate change . as the Norwich Climate Commission have set out , Norfolk have be identify as the dry region of England because of climate change , agricultural irrigation demand and population growth . Norfolk be also at substantial risk of flooding , which be only exacerbate by climate change . to compound the challenge , Norfolk have part of the fast eroding coastline in north - west Europe . a recent report by Norfolk county council spell out the challenge pose by coastal erosion , include the prediction of possible sea level rise of up to 1 . 15 metre by the end of the century . my constituency neighbour , the hon . member for North Norfolk ( Steff Aquarone ) be not in his place , but it be estimate that approximately 1 , 030 residential and commercial property could be lose to erosion by 2105 solely in his constituency . climate change have a keenly feel impact on our area , as it do across the country and the world . the nature crisis will also have a hugely detrimental effect . I be sure that many member have visit the broad — I know that many people have boat there . it be one of the jewel of our county and of our country , as a national park of which we can all be proud . I be proud that my constituency include part of it . but recently , the Broads Authority have declare a biodiversity emergency , warn of the need for urgent action to protect wildlife from the impact of climate change and pollution . the broad have be lose specie at a rate of six per decade in the past 50 year . vital to address this decline be well land and water management and adaptation measure . I hope that the Minister will touch on that in her response . I would very much welcome a visit from the Minister to see the broad for herself , though I be sure she have already visit . we have many challenge in Norfolk , but Norfolk be a key part of the solution . some 60 % of offshore wind energy in the UK be already generate in the east of England , make it an important centre of clean energy . there be even more potential in our region that I know this Government be serious about maximise , in relation not only to our climate change target but to deliver job and growth for our area . there be 640 , 000 green job in the UK , and they be grow four time fast than overall UK employment . that be a big , exciting opportunity for area such as mine , especially for young people , many of whom can not get job or do not feel they have get the skill , as be touch on in the statement . it be vital to invest in skill . as the east of England all - party parliamentary group set out , 1 . 2 million job will be need in the low - carbon and renewable energy sector in England by 2050 , and 10 % of those be expect to be in the east . I also want to reference the huge expertise and knowledge in Norwich . I recognise how many scientist contribute to the development of the Bill . we have the Tyndall Centre for Climate Change Research , which have nearly 100 member range from phd researcher to professor . at the Norwich research park we have many fantastic company work on this agenda . Alora , which I visit recently , be literally grow rice on the surface of the ocean , help tackle global hunger . last year , I visit Wendling Beck — hon . member be get a tour of Norfolk — in the constituency of the hon . member for Mid Norfolk ( George Freeman ) . it be one of the most ambitious nature recovery project in England , reverse biodiversity loss locally , inspire climate action and build a sustainable and resilient landscape legacy . we need to maximise all the innovation that we have in the UK to deliver on the dual challenge of the nature and climate crisis . as my hon . friend the Member for Norwich South ( Clive Lewis ) , who be no long in his place unfortunately , do not give way to I , I will make the point now that Norwich be also home to a large financial service sector , include Aviva in his constituency . it be a key leader in sustainability . we have not speak much about the role of business in this agenda , and indeed in the Bill , but it be vital . I welcome the fact that the Government be already accelerate plan to make we the green finance capital of the world , mandate UK - regulate financial institution and FTSE 100 company to develop and implement credible plan that align with the 1 . 5 ° goal of the Paris agreement . my hon . friend the Member for Norwich South mention airport , of which I be sure there will be much discussion in the month ahead . Norwich airport in my constituency not only provide job but be a centre of green aviation excellence . there be important opportunity to ensure that we develop the future of aviation in line with our climate commitment . I turn to the international aspect of the biodiversity and climate crisis . as I say , before join this place I be a campaigner work on a range of issue , include climate change . in that role , I be privileged to meet many young activist from around the world who know that their future be at stake , as well as many people on the frontline of climate change , like Hindou Ibrahim , an environmental activist and leader from Chad who have champion the indispensable role that indigenous people and solution play in this agenda . I be sure that we could mention many example of similar legislation around the world , even if it be not exactly the same . it be really important to draw on local knowledge . I hope that all those people would be pleased to see the cross - party consensus on the issue in this House and the commitment to bold action , even if we may disagree on some of the specific way to get there . this Labour Government be restore british credibility on the world stage , and a huge part of that be about climate change . that be much need : as we see country turn away from the Paris agreement , it be even more vital that we reaffirm our commitment to global treaty . I welcome the launch of the global clean power alliance , which bring 12 country together to turbocharge the roll - out of clean energy and drive green job and investment at home . at COP29 , the Prime Minister announce a new climate goal to reduce carbon emission by 81 % by 2035 . importantly , he call on other country to match that ambition , because none of we can do this alone . as this debate have focus on the relationship between climate change and biodiversity , it must also be note that the UK be resolutely focus on deliver the target to halt and reverse biodiversity loss by 2030 . I welcome commitment such as the £ 10 million announce for the global biodiversity framework fund . the last campaign that I work on be on food and hunger . as WWF have highlight , the lead driver of habitat loss be a broken food system . I urge the Government to outline what we be do to tackle that , and to confirm that we be committed to tackle food security alongside climate and nature action . finally , I turn to public opinion . the Bill refer to a citizen ' assembly . as a councillor , I see the benefit of local citizen ' assembly . there be a question about the good mechanism to do they nationally ; whatever happen with the Bill , I hope that we can continue that important conversation . I know how many people in Norwich be passionate about tackle climate change . when I have speak at local school , it be one of the topic that child raise with I , as I be sure they do with many hon . member , because this be their future . we have many local group , from friend of the Earth to Norfolk Wildlife Trust . Climate also come up on the doorstep — sometimes positively , sometimes negatively , but at least it be a conversation that we be have . I know that this matter , this government know that it matter and there be widespread public support , but there be so much more to do . we need to move as fast as we can to address the issue . my hon . friend the Member for Norwich South speak about the importance of growth and what it look like . for I , good , sustainable growth and climate and nature commitment be not mutually exclusive . we can build million more home and protect our natural resource and biodiversity , and we can create infrastructure that limit damage to our ecosystem and conserve energy . I want to be clear that I fully back action to tackle the dual nature and climate crisis . I believe that the Government be also clear in their commitment to do so and on the importance of join - up action and embed the agenda across Government . I welcome the bold plan already set out to make Britain a clean energy superpower , to deliver green growth , to protect our natural environment and to lead internationally . it be now important that we focus on delivery . I can see from today ' s debate and from so many other debate that we have have in this House that there be many Back Benchers who be ready to hold the Government to account on their promise . whatever happen with the Bill , I hope that we can maintain the cross - party working and spirit of collaboration as we move forward . I , too , will finish with a quote — not from Margaret Thatcher , but from the UN Secretary - General . at the start of this year , he say : " this be climate breakdown — in real time . we must exit this road to ruin — and we have no time to lose . " I fully agree . as the Secretary - General say , we have see hope power change . I believe that hope power the change in Government last July . many people be hopeful that we would see a step change in this important agenda . I be hopeful that we have a Government who be fully commit to tackle climate change and protect our planet . I call the shadow Minister . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a pleasure to speak on behalf of his Majesty ' s official Opposition , and I congratulate the hon . member for South Cotswolds ( Dr Savage ) on bring this private Member ' s Bill before the House today . the Conservative and Unionist party have a record of which we should be incredibly proud when it come to protect our environment . we be the first major economy to halve our carbon emission . we stop the burning of coal for electricity . we build the first , second , third , fourth and fifth large offshore wind farm in the world , which be generate power for the United Kingdom right now . and we introduce the world - lead contract for difference process , blend the conservative principle of competition and enterprise . as reference by my hon . friend the Member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) — and he be a friend — Margaret Thatcher , who become the leader of our party 50 year ago next month , be famously the first world leader to raise the issue of climate change on the global stage . she warn the United Nations General Assembly in 1989 of the " insidious danger " that climate change pose through " the prospect of irretrievable damage to the atmosphere , to the ocean , to earth itself . " I know that right hon . and hon . member across the House will agree that , as in almost every other case , she be absolutely right . we have see extreme weather pattern across the globe , indicate the severity of the challenge face the world in the 21st century . alongside our global partner , we must embrace technology , build new nuclear , reduce waste and enhance efficiency to bring down bill for household , consumer and industry in a way that allow we to protect nature , conserve our landscape and leave the climate in a well state for generation to come . the hon . Gentleman will of course also congratulate the Labour Government before 2010 and the liberal Democrat coalition on their good work , and it be important , in the spirit of consensus , to do that . however , do he agree that one important issue that be always miss from the debate about climate be national security ? if we can be self - sufficient in our energy supply , that will be really important for our national security . we never talk about that issue in the context of climate , but I be sure the hon . Gentleman , as a Conservative , will agree . I could not agree more with the hon . member ; in fact , it be quite nice to hear the Liberal Democrats acknowledge that they be actually part of the Government over the last 14 year — they do not always choose to do so . as to the point about national security and energy security , that be why I be so concerned about the Labour Government ' s plan for our offshore oil and gas industry . why would we want to rely more on import , as the Government will , should they go ahead and accelerate the decline in the North sea ? however , I be sure we will continue to have that debate as we move forward . if this private Member ' s Bill contain measure to ensure a pragmatic and proportionate response to climate change , with household and bill payer at its core , and defend our british wildlife , nature and countryside , I be sure we would all support its aim and ambition . indeed , colleague and friend who support it do so with the admirable , and indeed laudable , intention of see the United Kingdom protect the environment , and it be not that ambition with which we take umbrage . however , it be clear that we should not support the damage measure the Bill would require . if it become law , it would damage our country , our prosperity , the life of individual and industry across the United Kingdom . I wonder where the shadow Minister be when the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) say , just 15 minute ago , that this be not an either / or between prosperity and protect nature and the climate . I be actually right here on the Front Bench listen to my hon . friend , and I agree with a lot of what he say . however , we be here to debate the content of the Bill and to decide whether they be something we should support , and I be afraid — to break with the consensus that have be express across the House this morning — that we can not . the Bill would undermine the power of this Parliament and its democratically elect member and would bind their hand . as the Bill suggest , the Secretary of State would be duty - bind to act as direct by an unelected body . a world with a clean climate and with thrive nature and wildlife be one we all aspire to ; it be the core belief of Conservativism that we should seek to leave the country and the world in a well place than that in which we find they , for both our child and our grandchild . but I be afraid that this Bill would not do that . in government , we aspire to be a world leader in the energy sector and to embrace a new energy mix that would reduce our carbon footprint , and that be what we do . we should want to pave the way for other nation , but it should be a path that they would actually want to follow . if the Bill mean green levy , soar bill , the high electricity price in the world , boiler taxis , job loss , and reject our ability to produce fuel domestically , while increase import from abroad and generate low tax revenue as a result , nobody will follow this path . just last week , a report by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries — we know that by their very nature , actuary be cautious people — state that if we continue on our current path , a plausible bad case be that global GDP will collapse by 50 % between 2070 and 2090 , and that 4 billion life could be lose by 2050 . that be an unimaginable future . do the shadow Minister agree that the cost of do nothing will be way more than the cost of act now ? as I have try to explain , not just to the hon . Lady but to the House , we have not do nothing . we lead the world in so many way — halve emission fast than any other G7 nation , build at speed some of the big renewable offshore wind farm in the world , which be generate power for the United Kingdom right now , and end the use of coal for electricity production . no other country have a record that come close to match the United Kingdom ' s . this be not a case of do nothing ; it be about do thing in a sensible way that do not impose further bill or cost on british bill payer . I recently visit a pioneer company in Epsom and Ewell call Sunswap . its zero emission technology for refrigerated transport be enable the transition from pollute diesel to solar power . do the hon . Member agree that such innovation thrive in time of challenge and drive economic growth ? absolutely . that be one reason why I be so proud of the contract for difference scheme , which over our time in government support emerge and develop technology to ensure that we get the transition right to the tune of billion of pound . the hon . Gentleman speak of the need to focus on the provision of the Bill , so will he outline which provision he be oppose to ? be it net zero ambition , increase net biodiversity , or develop a nature and biodiversity plan ? if the hon . Gentleman would have some patience , I be about to turn to the exact provision that we take issue with . the Bill state that it be " to require the United Kingdom to achieve climate and nature target " and it call for an immediate end to exploration , extraction and — crucially — import of fossil fuel . that would involve not only lay off hundred of thousand of worker and undermine our energy security , but shut down our chemical industry and put at risk our ability to keep the light on . the Bill would impose a duty on the Secretary of State to publish annual target and bind the Secretary of State to take to take " all reasonable step " to achieve they . as we have see , set arbitrary legally bind target with no plan for how to achieve they be a mistake . the Bill would also establish a climate and nature assembly to direct the Secretary of State ' s strategy — a body that the Secretary of State would be legally bind to follow if any of the measure it propose have the support of 66 % of its member . those member would be unelecte and unaccountable , unlike member of this House . that be not how decision be make in this country , and it be not how decision should be make . law and decision be take in this country by this Parliament , and be introduce mostly by the Government , who command a majority in this House . the Government be hold to account in this House by elect member , and we in turn be hold to account by our constituent . we can not outsource our responsibility to an unelected , unaccountable and remote institution . the hon . member talk about unelected and unaccountable organisation such as the assembly , but be that not also the case for the other place ? I do not know it be official Labour party policy to dissolve the other place in its entirety — if it be , please correct I ; I would be keen to be educate in that regard — but no , that be not the case . as the hon . member know , the govern party in the upper House be determine by which party win the democratic election and command a majority in this House . that system have work , and I believe it will continue to work well for many year to come . do my hon . friend agree that one organisation that fit his description be the Climate Change Committee , which be charge with various responsibility but have neglect its responsibility to promote adaptation and resilience ? I agree in part with my hon . friend — indeed , the committee have neglect some of its responsibility — but I want to make progress on the Bill , which do not address the Climate Change Committee . clause 1 would impose a duty on the Secretary of State to achieve the climate and nature objective that it set out , as if mere will alone could bring those objective into reality . one objective be that the UK " reduce its overall contribution to global greenhouse gas emission to net zero at a rate consistent with … achieve its Nationally Determined Contribution ( NDC ) emission reduction target " in accordance with the 2015 Paris agreement . that would entail reduce UK emission in line with the 1 . 5 ° objective . clause 2 explain that the strategy that the Secretary of State would be duty - bind to produce and then take every possible step to achieve " must include measure that … will achieve the objective specify " by " limit the United Kingdom ' s total emission of carbon dioxide , include territorial emission " to level in line with the Paris agreement ' s 1 . 5 ° objective . what do that mean ? the Bill stop short of provide year - on - year limit for overall emission , but do not indicate that our current carbon budget system be not sufficient for the objective of the Bill . Zero Hour , the climate campaign group behind the Bill , think that the UK ' s carbon budget be no long sufficient to achieve 1 . 5 ° and that , once we include emission from the good we import , the UK ' s total carbon footprint will exceed its share of the global carbon budget for a 67 % chance of 1 . 5 ° by more than a factor of two . will the hon . member give way ? I will not . I have give way a few time and other Members want to speak , so I want to make some progress . align to the target , which the Bill would oblige the Secretary of State to achieve , would require even more drastic action to reduce emission . the Secretary of State have already sign the country up to an even strict target of cut emission by 81 % by 2035 — something the Climate Change Committee say will require people to eat less meat and dairy , take few flight , and swap their boiler for heat pump and their petrol car for electric vehicle at a pace that will require taxis and mandation . that be not sensible , nor be it feasible . let we turn to the objective to include import emission in the scope of our carbon budget . Zero Hour correctly identify that the current carbon budget system focus on territorial emission , rather than consumption emission — in other word , we count the carbon emission of what be produce within our own border , rather than the carbon emission of product that be produce overseas , ship in and then use within the UK . some may think that underplay our true contribution to global emission , and they may have a point , because if we shut down our oil and gas sector , for example — as the Labour party seemingly want to do — that will not mean that we consume any less oil or gas ; it will just mean that we ship it in from overseas as liquefy natural gas , which have four time the carbon emission in the production process . we may have reduce our territorial carbon emission and stick to our carbon budget , but we would actually be increase our carbon emission overall . that , as my right hon . friend the Member for East Surrey ( Claire Coutinho ) like to say , be carbon accounting go mad . do the shadow Minister recognise that the point he make about emission from import not be count rather undermine the point he be make early , when he boast about the territorial emission that be reduce when he be in government , which may be the very point that the sponsor of the Bill be try to make ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question , but how do we get away from the problem of double accounting for those emission ? if , for example , India be count they as part of its global emission and we start to count they too , in addition to what we be do within our border , how will we ever get an accurate picture of emission across the globe ? if we be to take into consideration the global effect of our consumption emission and the carbon footprint of what we import , the british people would soon realise that there be no way to decarbonise consumption as rapidly as possible , as the Bill seek , without a huge economic challenge , and that be not recognise in the Bill . that bring I to the next aspect of the Bill : the requirement — not just the ambition — that the UK end " the exploration , extraction , export and import of fossil fuel … as rapidly as possible . " I be sorry to say that that be not a serious proposal . even the Climate Change Committee have say that oil and gas will remain a crucial part of our energy mix for decade to come — something that the Secretary of State and his Ministers have accept . as we have be say , turn off the tap in the North sea will result only in high import — something the Labour Government seemingly accept . but even bad , the Bill would require we not only to completely end domestic exploration and production , but to end the import of fossil fuel . just this week , on Wednesday , gas power station provide 65 % of the UK ' s electricity . just 2 % come from wind power and 1 % come from solar . if the Bill be successful and we end not just the extraction but the import of all fossil fuel as rapidly as possible , mp who be back it will have to explain how we keep the light on when the wind do not blow and the sun do not shine . will the hon . member give way ? I will make progress , because I know more member wish to speak . when the wind do not blow and the sun do not shine , we simply do not have the technology available — we do not have enough clean power from battery or long - duration electricity storage — to meet demand . that speak to the major contradiction in the Bill : it talk about protect the british countryside from development , but it would require an incredible roll - out — at pace and scale unprecedented — of renewable technology , pylon , substation and battery storage facility . do the hon . Member agree that the investment in and set up of GB Energy , the location of which be not far from his constituency , will ensure that the transition to clean , green energy generation happen quickly , and that the failure to invest happen on the Conservatives ' watch ? the hon . member be draw I into set out what a great record the previous Conservative Government have on investment in new technology . I would love to believe that Great British Energy will make a positive difference to the direction this country take on invest in technology , create new job and drive the transition , but we have see no evidence that that will actually be the case . indeed , every time we ask the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero what it expect GB Energy to do , it singularly fail to come up with a response . far from GB Energy be welcome in Aberdeen and the north - east of Scotland , it be that part of the country that be be decimate more than any other by her party ' s position on oil and gas and our industry in the North sea . will the hon . Gentleman reflect on the word " as rapidly as possible " ? it be that language , and the measure and pressure include in the Bill , that will provide the incentive to british industry and to great british mind — the inventor , researcher and developer — to create the technology and produce they at scale . it will also resolve the issue that the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) speak about : the bottleneck that mean we do not produce and only assemble . do the hon . Gentleman agree that the wording of the Bill be deliberately intend to spur that innovation and take advantage of the opportunity ? my problem be that the Government ' s position on oil and gas , and their position on the support of our domestic industry in the UK , be have a detrimental impact . the advancement and the technology that the hon . Member speak about be be develop by the very company involve in that extraction in the North sea right now . of course , everybody believe we need to invest in transition , and many say that we should be speed that transition up . the accelerated decline of the North sea basin will see a lot of that skilled workforce and investment leave the United Kingdom and go overseas . that be something I be incredibly worried about . I have much to say on the Conservatives ' record on the environment : we have the Environment Act 2021 , the 25 - year environmental strategy , the creation of new national park , 34 new landscape recovery project and 13 offshore marine protect area . I have a very short question . can the hon . Gentleman state the number of onshore wind installation that be put together under the last Tory Government ? the opposition believe that we should not ride roughshod over the view of community up and down this country , which be why we be so reluctant to develop onshore wind at the scale the Labour party seek to do . if my hon . friend look at the wording of clause 2 , there would be a presumption against energy project of over 100 MW unless there be community agreement . it sound to I like the Bill reimpose the community ban that the previous Conservative Government have . I would never seek to argue with my hon . friend , but actually the Bill do not do that . what the Bill do be set a limit at 100 MW , which even the large solar farm do not quite reach , so there would still be a presumption in favour of large solar park development . Shotwick solar park on the Welsh border , for example , be the large in the country , and it be at 72 . 2 MW , so it would be automatically approve . that again speak to the contradiction at the heart of the Bill : we can not say that we want to protect farmland and the great british countryside while seek to approve at pace large - scale renewable project that would do the exact opposite . it be slightly bad than that . we hear the debate early about the word " and " . many of these large - scale renewable energy project such as battery storage be surround by such severe fencing that local nature — for example , deer run — be severely disrupt or destroy . my hon . friend know that I be in complete agreement on that , give that a significant number of renewable energy project , battery storage facility , substation and pylon have be propose for my constituency as a result of the plan bring forward by the Government . he be , as ever , absolutely right . the opposition obviously can not support the Bill . it would see job lose and move abroad , and it would see decision take out of the hand of democratically elect politician and place into those of judicial activist and vague , unaccountable body . however , I be sorry to say that the lack of seriousness and the inconsistency in the Bill , include a lack of understanding of how government work and an ignorance of energy market and of how an increase reliance on import be bad for we not just economically but environmentally , mean that we can not afford it . the Bill would do great harm to british industry , undermine parliamentary democracy and consign future government to goal that be not unachievable but would be achieve on the back of devastation to our energy , food , national and economic security . it would also not protect the great british countryside . despite the laudable and admirable aim of many right hon . and hon . member who support the Bill , that be why we can not support it . it be an honour to speak on the Bill , give the twin challenge of tackle climate change and ensure that our natural world not only survive but become a far great part of our life . those priority be share by the vast majority of my constituent in Cannock Chase , many of whom have write to I over the last few week . as other have do , I pay tribute to the hon . member for South Cotswolds ( Dr Savage ) , who deserve great credit for use her private member ' s Bill to push for strong ambition and action on both climate and biodiversity . that decision have enable a huge amount of discussion to take place on those issue not just today , but over the last few month and , no doubt , in the month and year to come . in particular , she have work incredibly hard to ensure that those discussion radiate out of this place by engage with passionate campaigner from up and down the country . I have no doubt that that will make the public debate both wider and deep , which I be confident all hon . member in the Chamber welcome . as I note in my maiden speech , my constituency be well know for its forest . while there be far more to Cannock Chase and the fantastic people who call it home than that , I be happy to have the welcome excuse of this debate to focus on the natural beauty and serenity that it have to offer . the truth be that Cannock Chase have a far more complex and diverse range of habitat than simply a 2 , 700 - hectare forest . about a third of the wide Cannock Chase national landscape be agricultural land , which I will come to later , and a large proportion be heathland , which be a vital but endangered habitat . in many way , the decline and continue plight of Britain ' s heathland be symbolic of the decline of our natural world , which we be discuss today and which the Bill rightly seek to address and reverse . it be often say that Britain be one of the most nature deprive country in the world , but for we in Cannock Chase that can be hard to believe because of all the natural beauty right on our doorstep . indeed , no one live in my constituency be more than a 15 - minute drive from our stunning forest and heathland . have say that , inequality and poor bus service mean that the most deprived part of my constituency be also the most nature deprive . I hope we will bear that intersection in mind as we continue the debate . when I knock on door on new build estate in Cannock Chase such as those in Hednesford , which be often describe as the gateway to the Chase , people who have recently move to the area often tell I that have nature a stone ' s throw away be what draw they to our community , particularly those who grow up in urban area . the Chase attract a huge number of visitor — about 2 . 5 million a year — which , if hon . member can believe it , mean that the density of visitor we receive be four to five time great than that of the Lake District national park . that intensity of tourism show how passionate we be about nature and our instinctive need to get lose in it , but also that we can sometimes pose the great risk to the natural world . in my area , it be sometimes say that we be at risk of love the Chase to death , so the agenda of this Bill and this government to prevent outcome like that be very important . as I mention , no habitat in my constituency illustrate this well than lowland heathland . Rarer than tropical rainforest , lowland heath be find on Brindley heath and Moors Gorse , just north of Hednesford , and at the iron age hill fort of Castle Ring in Cannock Wood . as well as be a scheduled ancient monument , Castle Ring be home to a variety of rare habitat such as sphagnum bog and acidic grassland . the UK be fortunate to have a fifth of all the heathland in Europe , yet sadly we have lose 80 % of it over the last two century . it be particularly concern that much of that loss have occur over the last 70 year , echo the picture of ever increase specie and habitat loss that member have draw attention to today , include my hon . friend the Member for Norwich North ( Alice Macdonald ) . I know , from take my daughter to see the stunning carpet of purple heather over the Chase every August , that the cutback to conservation work due to austerity be allow scrub and fern to creep in more and more year after year . that be why I be delighted that just before Christmas , to mark the 75th anniversary of the National Parks and Access to the Countryside Act 1949 , the Environment Secretary announce that national landscape such as Cannock Chase will be grant new power to boost nature ' s recovery and improve sustainable access to these beautiful landscape . refine the role and authority of national park and national landscape will benefit our rural economy and mean that more people can enjoy spend time reconnecte with nature . it be also fantastic to see strong regulation to ensure that public body , include water company , do more to respect and support these precious landscape . I be confident that that ambition will be extend to the protection of site of special scientific interest , of which we have many in Cannock Chase . often sssi be under great ecological threat than national park or landscape because they be more dispersed or designate for a particular specie . for example , the Cannock extension canal in my home village of Norton Canes play host to one of the country ' s large population of float water plantain , which I have to admit be not particularly special to look at but be none the less an ecologically important endanger plant that thrive in gently undulate water such as canal . as I mention , farming be absolutely present in the Cannock Chase national landscape , and in my view , there be nowhere well than national park and national landscape to see that farmer be steward of the land and keen to work in harmony with nature . support must be in place to enable farmer to realise this ambition , which be why I very much welcome the Government ' s announcement of £ 5 billion over the next two year through the new deal for farmer , which will help to ensure that natural recovery be take place on every english farm , alongside sustainable food production . to the credit of the previous Government , they introduce the farming in protect landscape programme . four oak farm , near Slitting Mill in my constituency , be one of the recipient of the funding , but it be a very time - limit programme , so I hope it will be renew beyond the next financial year . alongside many member of the House , particularly my fellow member of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee , I look forward to continue the work of find a way forward to a financially and environmentally sustainable future for british farming . for protect landscape like Cannock Chase , funding stream such as the high tier of the countryside stewardship scheme will be vital . these bespoke , delicately balanced project need the expertise of Government agency such as Natural England , and while significant progress have be make in recent month on expand capacity and speed up decision , we still have a long way to go to ensure that all farmer can access environmental land management scheme and improve sustainability and biodiversity in the good way for their farm . I thank the hon . member for give way and compliment he on his speech . do he agree that biodiverse farming and biodiverse area near high - production farm be not the enemy of good - quality food production , but in fact enhance that production and reduce the need for the use of chemical and herbicide on our land ? I thank the right hon . member for his intervention . I completely agree that we need to ensure that our farm be properly support and that we highlight good practice , so that it be spread across the country . sustainable food production and national self - sufficiency need to go hand in hand with that work . we must encourage and enable farmer to be steward of the land , which we know they absolutely be . I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests in relation to farming . while I be very supportive of regenerative agricultural technique , do the hon . member accept that yield decrease by 25 % to a third when we use those technique ? they be suitable in some area , but not in all . this be why I mention that the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee be hold an inquiry on the future of farming , as part of which we be look at this issue of balance and ensure that we strike the proper balance . the underlie principle have to be that we empower farmer to do what be right for their farm and enable they to make that judgment on the correct balance . the fact that water quality have be a feature of this debate be welcome . we talk about the state of our river , lake and sea a lot in this House , but there can not be too much discussion about it . as I be sure be sadly the case in every constituency , in Cannock Chase we have waterway that be rate poor for quality : the River Trent on the edge of Rugeley and the rise brook . in 2022 , untreated sewage be discharge into watercourse in my constituency 254 time , for a total of 372 hour , which disgracefully be typical in this country today . we know that have consequence for wildlife . when I meet the Staffordshire Wildlife Trust in May last year , it highlight to I that in just two decade the water vole have completely disappear from Cannock Chase , and there have be a 96 % decline in record of grey partridge . the consequence for those two specie paint a grim picture indeed . a key ask from the Staffordshire Wildlife Trust , of which I be a proud member , be for Labour to commit to the 30 by 30 pledge and protect 30 % of land and sea for nature by 2030 . I be proud to say that this Government have commit to that . unlike the last government , we be put it into action . through the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill , the Government be ensure that water company will be hold to account for the improvement that be be promise in exchange for hefty bill increase , while empower customer , who for far too long have witness the decline in the health of our waterway but have be unable to challenge it directly . I have speak a lot about nature , but in Cannock Chase we also have a story to tell about energy . in my maiden speech , I explain that the closure of the coal - fire Rugeley power station have a huge impact on the community I represent , but that a new community on the now - clear site will ensure energy - efficient home and new infrastructure , mark a new era for Rugeley and Brereton . there be plan to ensure that the power station ' s energy legacy be maintain , with a battery storage facility and , I hope , rooftop solar . on very few site in the country will there be such a clear transition from the energy source of the past to the home , job and technology of the future . finally , I will turn to the principle of the Bill . when it come to the climate and nature crisis , hold people in position of power to account be perhaps more important than ever . knit together work across government into a coherent strategy will be essential to make sure that the target in the Environment Act 2021 , to which this Government have make an unwavering commitment , become a reality . we all know that we do not have time to waste in the battle to limit global temperature rise and avoid the most catastrophic effect of climate change and the battle to halt and reverse nature loss . the last Government talk the talk to some extent , but they dither and delay so chronically that they do not end up implement much . as with the last Labour Government , this Labour Government have set a world - lead agenda on climate and nature . as some country backslide on international commitment , this Government stand firm in assert the importance of stick to our target and make meaningful progress towards meet they . whether it be increase woodland cover , see the return of water vole in constituency such as mine , or stop island sink into the sea on the other side of the world , this Government will always make our climate and natural world their priority and , on behalf of the people I represent , so will I . last week , the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero and I be invite to see a play call " Kyoto " . [ interruption . ] it look like other Ministers be also there ; I do not spot they . the play tell the story of the international climate negotiation in Kyoto , include the pivotal role that the late great John Prescott play in work collaboratively to forge a bind agreement between country with vastly different politic and that agree about very little . I find the play so move and inspiring , and I think I see that the Secretary of State do , too . the next morning , I write to he , ask if he would be willing to have a call with I about this Bill and how we might be able to work together . I do that because this crisis be too big and too existential to leave to a party machinery whose prime motivation seem to be simply to be see to win , as we see report in the news yesterday . this Bill be first table by the first Green MP , Caroline Lucas , four year ago . it be and always have be a chance for collaborative , cross - party endeavour . it be support by many of the Government ' s Back Benchers , and the Labour party itself pledge agreement with its principle not long ago . if the Government support it today , they will share in the credit of its success . we will all win if the Bill go into Committee and emerge as strong as possible , support across the House . I understand that the hon . member for South Cotswolds ( Dr Savage ) have agree not to push it to a vote today , in exchange , it seem , for just a meeting with the Secretary of State for Energy and Net Zero and a video , with an agreement to work together but with no specific commitment . that be her decision . [ interruption . ] let I continue , please . that be her decision . I be sad about it , but I wish she well and hope it work out . however , Madam Deputy Speaker , I can not tell you how disappointed I be , and how disappointed million of people will be , to learn how the Government have behave . they ignore the CAN Bill campaign for month , only finally agree to meet its promoter 10 day before this debate — come to the negotiation table with almost nothing new , demand a promise not to push the Bill it to a vote in exchange for no regulation , no legislation , no new target . that be peanut . after 10 day of negotiation , incredibly , the offer get bad — until , late last night , the good that the Government could offer be a meeting with the Secretary of State , a non - specific offer to work together , and a video . the climate be why I get into politic and I be not give up that easily , so I have stand up today to say to the Government , " please , give we real commitment , bind decision , legislation , timetable and consequence . " the exist legislation to which the Government be work be base on science that be out of date , take we back to a time when we think that 2 ° C be a safe level of warming . it take no account of the emission from product and service that we import , no account of emission from aviation and shipping , and no account of emission from other greenhouse gas such as methane . in other word , it choose not to count the tricky stuff and then slap itself on the back for do so jolly well at the easy stuff , and , as we have hear over and over again today , it do not join up climate and nature legislation or policy in any way . so I say to the Government again , " please , please commit yourself to real , binding , bold legislation that reflect the way in which the science have evolve since the Climate Change Act 2008 , which be groundbreake in its day but which have now be supersede by the climate science . " if they will not do so , I , as one of the Bill ' s sponsor , will take this second reading to a vote . if they really think that they can look their constituent and their child in the eye — will the hon . Lady give way ? I would like to finish this point . if the Government really think that they can look their constituent and their child in the eye and say , " look , we couldn ' t help it ; there be party politic ; I have to think of my career , " I say to they , " go ahead . " I , too , have see " Kyoto " , and I have spend 20 year attend all the climate negotiation . give that the hon . Member have speak about cross - party consensus and the need to build the necessary political momentum , will she show respect for the huge effort make by my hon . friend the Member for South Cotswolds ( Dr Savage ) ? she do receive commitment that will enable we to move forward — not at the pace that we want , but together — and I be very worried about the way in which the hon . Member be undermine the effort that have be make to move forward with this . I do have a huge amount of respect for the hon . member for South Cotswolds , who have work incredibly hard over the year — decade — as an environment campaigner , and for month since she first propose this Bill . will the hon . Lady give way ? I want to make some progress . I respect the hon . member ' s choice , although I disagree with it and I be sad about it . this Bill have be go for four year and have have cross - party support throughout . the position of the lead proposer on this iteration of the Bill be to accept a negotiation without specific promise . my position be that strong negotiation and get the Bill to Committee stage be need — rise — I anticipate that I will answer many of the point that hon . member want to make , so I will make a little progress . even I do not love every clause of the revise version of the Bill . I would prefer its climate target to make explicit reference to the 1 . 5 ° limit and the UK ' s fair contribution towards it . I very strongly disagree with the last - minute insertion of a presumption against large renewable project , which be make without consult the co - proposer . but the fundamental principle of the Bill be sound : law base on the science , tackle climate and nature as one and do thing with people , not to people . it have the level of ambition that the science demand . it contain enough positive measure for I to give it my full support , put aside my difference about those point . in the debate on Second reading of the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill , we hear powerful argument about how it could be improve , but the House vote for it to progress because there be an agreement that it warrant further scrutiny , include potential amendment . the same apply today . if member agree with the principle but want to change some specific , let we debate that . in that case , I ask they not to block the Bill today , but to join I in vote for Second Reading and then to debate together , on a cross - party basis , how to make it well together . will the hon . Lady give way ? I be on my final sentence . let we set aside party allegiance for a moment . we can show bold leadership together . I admire the hon . member ' s passion and commitment to the cause . I be afraid I be not in the Chamber to hear the beginning of her speech , but from what I have be able to gather , let I take the opportunity to set the record straight . I very much believe that we do need cross - party consensus . I have be willing and eager to have conversation with the Government . I have be an environmental campaigner for the last 20 year . I have try the placard - wave and I have march in the street . that have an important role to play , but there be a reason that I choose to come to this place : to take the policy approach . as the third party , the only way we can do that be by work with the Government . with the great of respect to the hon . member , take a Bill contain bind legislation to Committee stage for line - by - line scrutiny be not placard - wave . vote for the Bill today be vote for a liveable future . I hope that be what we all choose . the climate and nature crisis be the defining test of our era and , therefore , of our Government . as a co - sponsor of the Bill , and have co - sponsor it in previous iteration when Caroline Lucas , the former Member for Brighton Pavilion , first bring it to the House , I have see throughout my time here the importance of work cross - party . that do not mean that we agree on everything , or that opposition member or Labour Back Benchers can not forcefully hold our government to account ; it mean that we need to prioritise what materially be good for deal with the climate and nature emergency . I have call , and will continue to call , my party out when it be not go far enough or even get thing wrong , but I will also fight tooth and nail for transitional demand in the pursuit of tackle the climate and ecological emergency . I know the hon . member for South Cotswolds ( Dr Savage ) will say herself that the measure in the Bill be not the ceiling of what we want to achieve , but the floor . as she say in her opening speech , the Bill be not a silver bullet . we be now work towards get the concession from the government they have already commit to , hold they to account , push they to go far , and take action up to and beyond what this Bill ask for . I do not want to sacrifice the transitional demand that we have win as a result of pressure in negotiation , not just from mp — in fact , perhaps we have play the small role — but from campaigner , who have be push we to push Ministers and the Government . I be not willing to sacrifice the transitional demand that we could win for climate and nature — today , right now — and that we could hold the Government to account on deliver , in order to have a vote that would mean we lose those demand . I care about the material — that be why I be in Parliament . give that we have strong cross - party consensus , as have be demonstrate today , on the urgency of tackle the climate and nature crisis , I do not understand the hon . Lady ' s argument that the Government would somehow draw back from measure that they have commit , in negotiation with the hon . member for South Cotswolds ( Dr Savage ) , to take forward . a number of hon . member think that it be important to vote on a Bill that will help move we far and fast towards tack the climate and nature crisis . as my hon . friend the Member for Bristol Central ( Carla Denyer ) explain , Second Reading be an opportunity to far discuss the issue and build cross - party consensus on exactly the measure need . will she explain why a vote on the Bill be not a good idea — order . I have a long list of speaker to call . I have every respect for the hon . member and her Green party colleague . I be not here to answer on behalf of the government ; I be here to hold the Government to account , which be what I will be do . I be also here to win material change on climate , economic and social justice . that will be what drive my strategy . with Trump ' s election in the US , his Government of billionaire , for billionaire , and his frenzied pursuit of fossil fuel , it be more important now than ever that we do not pander to his climate denialism and that the UK play a lead role in mitigate the climate crisis , restore nature and adapt to the impact that those emergency be cause . our life , especially the life of young generation , will be blight by those twin crisis . in recent month , we have see fire rage through California , storm after storm batter the UK , and devastating flooding from Thailand to Spain . if this be now , imagine the extreme weather event we could be see in 20 , 40 or 60 year . early this month , the UN Secretary - General reiterate that " global emission must peak this year and rapidly decline thereafter if we be to have a sliver of a hope of limit long - term global temperature rise to 1 . 5 ° C . " I welcome the positive and vital step that our Government have already take on environmental issue in their first six month , on home - grow clean power , stop new fossil fuel project , clean up our filthy river , provide public transport and retrofit home . however , we all recognise — I be sure Ministers themselves recognise — that we must go far still , which be what the measure in the Bill be all about , ensure that we reduce carbon emission at the speed and scale require , and that we take the step necessary to fight the climate and nature emergency , which be intertwine crisis that can not be tackle in silo . the campaign behind the Climate and Nature Bill have be phenomenal . I be very proud to have play a small part as one the co - sponsor of the Bill and its previous iteration , the Climate and Ecology ( no . 2 ) Bill . I thank the Zero Hour campaign and the thousand of people who have push for the Bill over many year , from climate scientist to academic to medical professional , and every other person who have raise their voice for the future of the planet , include many in Nottingham East . it be because of they , include those in the Public Gallery and outside , that the Bill have be back by around 200 mp , include 90 Labour Members . I also thank those who have sponsor previous version of the Bill , such as my hon . friend the Members for Sheffield Hallam ( Olivia Blake ) and for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) , former Member Caroline Lucas , and most recently the hon . member for South Cotswolds . she have work tirelessly to get we to this point , to push for the measure in the Bill , and to engage with the Government . thank to her hard work , we have win commitment from the Government on which all co - sponsor , particularly those on the Labour Benches , will be hold they to account . as I have already say , these measure be not the sum total of what the climate and nature crisis require of we . there be so much furth for we to go , but I be hopeful that today will be the beginning , or rather the continuation of a journey that see our Government work with campaigner for the Bill to take the action that we need . it be say again and again that politics be about choice , and there be no more important choice than our very future . we have to choose to serve the interest of people in the UK and across the globe , and stand up to the wealthy and powerful , who be determined to enrich themselves at the expense of people and our planet . rise — order . member should not need to be remind that speech should be direct towards the Chair , and most definitely not to the Gallery . I call Andrew George . it be a pleasure to support my hon . friend the Member for South Cotswolds ( Dr Savage ) and the excellent work she have be do in advance the Bill . indeed , for many year I have support it in its previous iteration in the local authority in Cornwall . I have a speech prepare to encourage the Government to support the Bill , and I have listen to what my hon . Friend say about the importance of advance the essence of the Bill . since then , we have hear from the Green party , and I worry that we be now at risk of play politic with an important matter . I believe that what be most important now be that we bring party together with a share agenda , and find a way forward , rather than generate divisiveness at this stage . we have hear extensively about the importance of cross - party consensus , and I believe we have be have a fantastic discussion to that end . do the hon . Member agree that in the name of cross - party consensus we should be work together and not just party political grandstanding in favour of the Green party ? yes , of course I agree . I be a strong supporter of the Bill and want it — certainly its intent — to proceed as rapidly as possible , and for we to make progress in all the area that have be advance . we must challenge and ensure that we not only meet the commitment that successive government have make in relation to our climate target , but that that that be achieve and review on a regular basis . to be fair , as the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) make clear , successive conservative government have make important advance on nature conservation — from the Wildlife and Countryside 1981 onwards . it be not right or proper to besmirch any particular party for have fail in this area ; we may well have argument , but what we want be to bring together a political consensus to ensure that we can take these matter forward . on nature , we face a significant crisis . I do not claim to be an expert , although I have be a lifelong member of the Cornwall Wildlife Trust and I support all its work . I have also support a number of project in my constituency — for example , during the summer month , I volunteer on a butterfly transect in my locality to track the decline of butterfly . some might ask , " well , what be the relevance of that ? " but butterfly be the model organism through which to study habitat fragmentation , habitat loss and climate change in this country , and the weather vane for how we as a nation be do . I have to say that the result of the transect be extremely worrying , and although I be more of a bag carrier and scribe for my wife , it be certainly an educative and helpful process — I would encourage all hon . member to undertake similar volunteer work in their constituency to track and monitor what be go on with our wildlife . the locality where the transect take place be a particular hotspot for the silver - stud blue , and we be track its decline there . however , nationwide , in the last 14 year , the common blue have see a 51 % decline , and there have be a 65 % decline in the green - vein white . the small tortoiseshell have see a 59 % decline , and the paint lady an 81 % decline . there have be significant decline across all specie within that period , and that need to be look at . at the same locality , we have also observe migratory bird come to the coast and the shoreline of west Cornwall . one that I track and that I have a particular interest in be the Arctic tern . remarkably , Arctic tern migrate — one would advise they not to — 25 , 000 mile from the south pole to the north pole , or from the Antarctic to the Arctic . they stop over on our shore , and it be such an enormous privilege to have such remarkable creature stop by . as they arrive , a bit like my hon . friend the Member for South Cotswolds after she have row across the ocean , they be meet with dog walker who — this be not through ignorance or malevolence ; well , it be not through malevolence — disturb they and make they unable to feed and rest , at the very time when they most need to . we need to address that through legislation , as well as education , which be vital . I do not think that there be any malevolent intent on the part of walker who take their dog to the coast and disturb the wildlife in that manner , but we need to engage with the public . legislation like this give we the opportunity to engage and regulate in a manner that I hope will bring the public with we to protect wildlife . hon . member will be pleased to hear that I will conclude in order to give other an opportunity to speak . I do hope that before Green party member decide to press the matter to a vote , they will talk to my hon . friend the Member for South Cotswolds a little more and ensure that we bring the House together today so that the purpose of this legislation can be advance . that be the most important thing of all . I thank the hon . member for South Cotswolds ( Dr Savage ) for introduce this important debate . I really admire her commitment to action and to real progress , not grandstand , because politics be not a game . politic be real life , and outcome matter . as the Member of Parliament for Morecambe and Lunesdale , I want to highlight how the urgent challenge of climate change and the nature emergency affect my constituency , which be a place of natural beauty and ecological importance . my constituency be also well place to be part of the solution to the climate and nature emergency , particularly in clean energy generation and stewardship of the land . Morecambe and Lunesdale be especially vulnerable to climate change . much of the urban area of Morecambe and Heysham be low - lying , make they prone to future flooding . village such as Halton have already see the devastation cause by extreme weather . today , I be hold my breath about whether I will get home — I doubt I will — and what damage storm É owyn might wreak on my constituency . my constituency be home to farmer whose livelihood be dependent on the weather . my farm be mainly dairy and livestock ; flooding and extreme weather risk not only business damage , but animal welfare . the rural area of my constituency , with land stewarde for generation by our farmer , be exemplar of natural beauty with roll hill and dramatic limestone eruption . in my constituency , we have the national landscape of Arnside and Silverdale and a section of the Yorkshire Dales national park with the market town of Sedbergh , the dale ' most populous settlement — that be its claim to fame . my constituency be also home to Morecambe bay , a site of extraordinary natural heritage . its mudflat , salt marsh and sandbank support a wide range of wildlife , and it be a double site of special scientific interest . migratory bird depend on these habitat , as other hon . member have mention . that richness be part of our identity and be reflect in the Morecambe town motto , " Beauty surround , health abound . " nature be fundamental to our life and our livelihood . the health of our environment be essential to our wellbeing . climate change threaten our ability to give everyone a good life . I make a brief declaration of interest : my former employer , CPRE , support the Bill . do my hon . friend agree that the rate of climate change that she be describe in her constituency pose an existential threat to our most love landscape , our iconic wildlife specie , the pattern of our season and some of our most valuable farmland , and that a rapid and just transition be therefore essential for rural community so that we can hand over our countryside to future generation in some recognisable form ? I absolutely agree . climate change do not affect just one part of our life , or just one part of the country or the world ; it affect all of we , in every single domain . if we be to have a planet that be habitable by human , we must take action now . as my hon . Friend say , it must be a fair and just transition . we can not ignore the risk pose by climate change . severe storm and rise water be already threaten our home . the challenge be grow , and we must take action to protect our community and infrastructure . locally , we must be resilient ; nationally , we must work at a system level to meet the challenge . I know that think about this can be anxiety - induce , and I worry for our young people who have grow up with a feeling of existential threat . but I ask member to reframe this challenge as an opportunity to make people ' s live well , whether through warm home , cheap bill , access to good public transport and good job in new industry , or simply by ensure access to nature for all . it be an opportunity to turn on their head outdated notion of nature as simply the preserve of the rural and turn our urban area into haven for the natural world . I be a sci - fi fan , and in my wild dream , I imagine energy abundance and the progression of technology to the point where we be harness and work with the wonder of the natural world — the chemistry , biology and physics that nature use so beautifully — to ensure plenty and comfort for all . on a practical point , what I love about the current political discussion on climate and nature be that it have move away from what feel like a morality play about individual choice to be focus on the systematic determinant of climate change and ecological destruction . back in Morecambe and Lunesdale , our farmer have always play a key role in manage the land and protect nature . that be now recognise in policy , with support to manage land to promote biodiversity , improve soil health and reduce carbon emission . their work show how agriculture and conservation can go hand in hand . last year , the now DEFRA Secretary and I visit a farm in Quernmore that be use natural method to slow upland water flow use marginal land , which in turn prevent lowland flooding . it also have robot cleaner in the milking shed , which be cool . how we produce our food be fundamental to our wellbeing and the health of the environment . my farmer be always strive hard for productivity , and they be open up to new method of production to address climate and nature concern . far north in my constituency , local effort to protect specie such as the red squirrel demonstrate what can be achieve through collaboration . the tentative return of those iconic creature to our woodland be a source of pride for our community . in Morecambe and Lunesdale , we be also provide some of the solution to the clean energy challenge . as well as wind and solar , Heysham have not one , but two nuclear power station . nuclear power have an important role as a low - carbon energy source . it provide always - on baseload energy and be currently the only reliable and scalable technology that be an alternative to fossil fuel baseload . for those who be not nuclear geek like I , I will briefly explain what that mean . for our grid to work reliably and avoid brownout and blackout , we need energy that be always on . Solar and wind , while brilliant technology , offer variable level of energy through the day , and our grid do not like that . also , the demand for energy do not go away when the wind stop blow and the sun stop shine . there be two solution to that . one be store energy . there be problem with current battery technology , although I must shout out LiNa Energy , just over the river from my constituency , which be develop sodium - metal chloride battery that address many of the issue of current technology , and it let I visit the lab . return to always - on energy , nuclear be the only currently available technology . it provide baseload , but without the carbon emission . it also provide energy density . it be a good use of land in provide energy . in Heysham , nuclear have provide good , unionised job for decade . in fact , Councillor Matthew Black at Lancaster city council speak just a few day ago about how his family have have connection to the power station for three generation . his grandad be a crane operator on the build , his dad be a toolmaker — one of many connection that I be sure he have with our Prime Minister — and Matthew be a labourer there in his university summer break . I take this opportunity to reach out to member who be not yet convinced of the need for nuclear in tackle climate change . I urge they to review the evidence , to not be bind to shibboleth and to move forward into the future . I would be remiss if I do not take this opportunity to tell the House how wonderful Heysham would be for new nuclear . we have the people , the skill , the land and the transport connection . [ interruption . ] I will make progress , as I believe you would like I to , Madam Deputy Speaker . finally , I will talk about some of the thing that this Labour Government be do . I be proud to sit as a Labour MP on the Government Benches , because I believe we be meet the huge challenge we face . we be bring forward game - change legislation to tackle the climate and nature emergency . we have an ambitious programme of true change for our country that be practically sound and absolutely implementable . we have be take bold step . we have publish the Clean Power 2030 action plan . in our first week in government we lift the ban on onshore wind . we have consent to nearly 2 GW of solar project and start a solar rooftop revolution . we have invest in modern technology , set world - lead target and reaffirm our commitment to no new oil and gas . we have phase out coal and confirm that we will ban fracke . we have set up great British Energy and the National Wealth Fund . we have appoint world - renowne climate and nature envoy . we be show global leadership at COP29 , and we strengthen the energy regulator to ensure that it properly stand up for consumer . in nature , too , our Government be take bold action . I would like the House to think about that bold action and join I in support the new Labour Government to tackle the climate and nature emergency . all too often in this place and in politic at large , what divide we be not necessarily the end result — in this case reduce emission , halt the decline of nature and support nature ' s recovery — but the mean by which we get there . I have some serious issue with the Bill . I say clearly and categorically for the record that I spend most of my time in this place and in my constituency argue against the very thing that cause nature ' s decline in the beautiful Buckinghamshire countryside . I spend most of my time argue against the unnecessary greenfield housing development that concrete over our countryside and destroy nature . I argue against the massive industrial solar installation , battery storage facility and substation upgrade that take away the farm next door and have fence around they that disrupt the deer run and be harmful and dangerous to nature . so many in this House have argue that those thing be the solution to some of the challenge we face , but I do not accept that at all , and I do not accept that the Bill will help we get to the end goal that I think the vast majority of people want to see . I be grateful to constituent who have lobby I in favour of the Bill , such as the Speen Environmental Action Group . I sit down with they over the summer and we have a good discussion . I do not think we agree on everything , but we absolutely agree on the need for the right sort of action and measure that will get we to where we want to go . from a legislative perspective , I would argue , as the shadow Minister , my hon . friend the Member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) , do in his excellent speech , that we already have a legislative framework in which we can work . we have the Environment Act 2021 . almost five year ago to this day , in the previous Parliament , I stand somewhere on the other side of the Chamber and deliver my maiden speech on the Environment Bill . it be now an Act of Parliament , and it have a section explicitly about halt the decline in species population by 2030 and increase population by at least 10 % to exceed current level by 2042 . we have the legislative framework . we now have to allow our great innovator to come up with the real solution — one that do not bring about the destruction of our countryside and nature . I listen carefully to the hon . member for Norwich South ( Clive Lewis ) , who have leave his place , give an impassioned defence of an ancient woodland . it be , in fact , in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) , but it be a good defence none the less . I think to myself , " it ' s quite rare that I agree with he , but I agree with he on this point . " but then I think about my own constituency , and I think , " hang on . " there be a project that have destroy many ancient woodland , not just in Buckinghamshire but up and down the entirety of phase 1 : High Speed 2 . the vast majority of member of the 2017 Parliament — the Labour Members , the Liberal Democrat Members , although there be not so many of they then , and the member of other party — all go through the voting Lobby to vote for the destruction of ancient woodland in Buckinghamshire , Oxfordshire , Northamptonshire and Warwickshire . it be a position that we all have to reflect upon . as I say at the start , we can disagree with the mean of get somewhere , but I invite every right hon . and hon . member to reflect on what they themselves have propose or support in the past , and the impact that have have on the nature challenge we face . I will touch briefly on some of the issue with the target in the Bill , which would have severe unintended consequence . my hon . friend the shadow Minister set out many of they in detail , but it be worth double underlining that if british industry be force too far , too fast towards target it can not meet , that will simply drive those business , those job and those innovator overseas . it will not combat any global challenge ; it will just move it somewhere else in the world . I can not believe that the sponsor of the Bill , or anyone else , actually want to see that happen . fossil fuel will be need for decade to come . I have be a vocal advocate of de - fossilisation , both in my time on the Transport Committee in the last Parliament and in this Parliament . my argument be that we have the technology out there , but Government regulation , not just in our own country but worldwide , be prevent we from enable it to grow . we will need fossil fuel . we will need something to power the 1 . 4 billion internal combustion engine vehicle that will still be on the road worldwide after the ban on new petrol and diesel engine in this country . I put it to the House that the solution be the synthetic fuel industry : make fuel literally out of air and water , use the Fischer - Tropsch process . the hon . Gentleman mention the number of Liberal Democrats in this place ; I think that we be a very effective method of de - fossilisation on 4 July . on the point about synthetic fuel , do he agree that the measure in the Bill , particularly the one to encourage sustainable aviation fuel and alternative for internal combustion engine , will spur investment in those technology exactly as he want to see ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his intervention . on his first point , all I will say be : not in Mid Buckinghamshire . they try , but they get 25 % of the vote . to answer the hon . Gentleman ' s serious point , I do not see anything in the Bill that challenge the zero emission vehicle mandate . the ZEV mandate be obsess with testing at tailpipe rather than whole - system analysis , which get in the way of develop synthetic fuel and greenlighte the great innovator in this country and worldwide to get on with develop that technology . if we put a synthetic fuel through an internal combustion engine , there be still carbon at tailpipe , but it be the same volume of carbon that will be recapture through atmospheric carbon capture to make the next lot of fuel . it be carbon neutral . it be one volume of carbon in a perpetual circle , yet I see nothing in the Bill that will enable those great innovator to move ahead and get — as some of they claim they can — cost parity with the fossil fuel equivalent within a decade . I would like to challenge the hon . member . this Bill set a very clear direction for what this country want to achieve , and that will help innovator and business to know where to go , which they be not sure about under the last Government . I would like he to think about that . I hear the point the hon . Lady make , but I fundamentally disagree . we already have the direction — it be the last Conservative Government who be the first in the western world to legislate for net zero by 2050 and who pass the Environment Act . the answer to the challenge we face in the development of synthetic do not sit in the Bill before we today . they sit in other legislation , which I admit I vote against in the last Parliament , but it be the ZEV mandate that get in the way , because it fail to look at whole - system analysis . who else want to have a go ? business and car manufacturer say that the previous Conservative Government ' s chop and change on car manufacturing make it really hard for they to achieve those scientific and technological innovation . the hon . Lady make a point about the change that happen in the last Parliament , but she be allow the fact to get in the way of a good argument . the reality out there be that car manufacturer be find that , aside from fleet sale , they can not sell electric vehicle . consumer demand for they be through the floor — nobody want they . that be part of the fundamental problem . if we take the solution that this Bill want to speed up and put on steroid , the innovator get block , and everybody simply jump on the technology that be available today , which be sometimes not the good technology to achieve the climate and nature goal that we in this House all want to see . the hon . member for Morecambe and Lunesdale ( Lizzi Collinge ) speak of the value of nuclear , which be another great example . we should look at the damage that grand - scale solar and battery storage cause to nature . we need 2 , 000 acre of solar panel to produce enough electricity for about 50 , 000 home on current usage , but we need only two football pitch for a small modular reactor that will serve 1 million home , so why be we mess about with solar ? that be the fundamental point we should all reflect on when we think about the Bill . we must think about the legislative framework we need to achieve these goal and then look at more practical solution . I pay tribute to the hon . member for South Cotswolds ( Dr Savage ) for all the work she have do and the courage she have show to get we to this point . I think I be right in say that she learn her rowing craft in Northwich in my constituency , and the strength and tenacity she have show today be typical of member of that rowing club . I thank she for what she have do . it be a privilege to have the opportunity to speak on this issue today , because , alongside the fight against child poverty , it be one of the core issue that define why I enter politic and how we must act not for today but for tomorrow . we must take immediate and bold action to secure a sustainable future for our planet , our environment and our child , who will inherit the world that we shape today . the climate crisis be the define challenge of our time , and bold action be essential to combat it . climate change and environmental destruction be not distant threat . they be reality that we face today , and they pose an existential threat . the science be absolutely clear : our planet be warm at an alarming rate , and the resultant consequence be dire . as the Met Office report just a couple of week ago , 2024 be the warm year on record globally and the first year that be likely more than 1 . 5 ° C above pre - industrial level . from rise sea level to devastating flood and wildfire to unprecedented heatwave , the effect of climate change be be see today and they impact everyone . will the hon . member give way ? I will not , because a lot of member be try to get in , and I want to make sure that everyone have a chance to speak . I be convinced that to tackle this challenge , we must commit to a just transition , with ambitious target for reduce greenhouse gas emission that not only put we on track to meet our global commitment but pave the way for a clean , green future for generation to come . we must protect our precious natural ecosystem . the biodiversity crisis be a press issue , with specie decline at an unprecedented rate . the World Wildlife Fund report in October that between 1970 and 2020 , there be a catastrophic 73 % decline in wildlife population . it be essential that we not only seek to halt that decline but prioritise the restoration and preservation of habitat . will my hon . friend give way ? I would rather not , as so many member be look to speak . by safeguard our ecosystem , we not only protect wildlife but enhance our own quality of life . Healthy ecosystem provide clean air , safe water and fertile land , which be essential resource for our community and economy . we must seize this opportunity to drive innovation and create green job . as we transition to a low - carbon economy , we can harness the power of renewable energy , sustainable agriculture and cutting - edge technology . this transition will not only help we meet our climate goal but stimulate economic growth and employment opportunity in sector that be vital for our future . invest in a sustainable economy be not merely an environmental imperative ; it be an immense economic opportunity . too often , we hear opponent of tackle the climate crisis present this as all cost . I ask they , " why would you leave this fantastic opportunity to be a global leader in these technology and to sell our expertise all over the world to someone else ? " I know that the Government recognise this , and I welcome the action that have already be take not only to get we back on track to meet our climate commitment , but to create hundred of thousand of good job and drive investment throughout our country . remove the ban on onshore wind in England , commit £ 21 . 7 billion for carbon capture , approve solar project offer almost 2 GW of power , launch Great British Energy and deliver record - break renewable auction be vital step in deliver clean power by 2030 and accelerate to net zero . moreover , we know that the public back action on climate , nature and the environment , with Oxford University estimate support at about 80 % globally . indeed , I have hear people across Mid Cheshire express their concern on these matter . prior to the general election , I participate in a dedicated climate and nature husting organise jointly by sustainable Northwich and Winsford Sustainability Partners , which have do a tremendous amount locally to raise awareness of these issue , provide forum for discuss topic such as carbon capture and storage , work with local school on air quality project , and much more . I take this opportunity to thank they for the work that they have do and continue to do . along with people across the country , those organisation be increasingly aware of the urgency of the situation and be call for bold action . by listen to the voice of the people we serve , we can foster collaboration between Government , business and local community to ensure that we create a collective response to climate change that be inclusive , effective and decisive . accord to the Local Government Association , more than 300 local authority have declare a climate emergency , and nearly two third of council in England aim to be carbon neutral by 2030 . I be particularly proud that our first act as an administration after the local election in 2019 be to declare a climate emergency in Cheshire West and Chester . perhaps there be a stereotype of Cheshire as a rural county full of cheese , cat and " real housewife " but , at the time of the declaration , Cheshire West be the fourth high polluting borough for carbon dioxide emission , with only Neath Port Talbot , North Lincolnshire and Birmingham rank higher . the borough ' s climate emergency response plan note : " Cheshire West and Chester be , in many way , a microcosm of the UK . few place can claim to have such a variety of key emitter and sector locate in one area . " there be a heavy concentration of industry in the north of the borough in Ellesmere Port . there be some who would have we deindustrialise and roll back on manufacturing or any carbon - intensive process . we have see the consequence of such action . we have see what happen when the rug be pull from under community with nothing to replace it , and how long it can take for a place to recover . and yet , time be of the essence . by provide strategic leadership , we have see growth in the hydrogen cluster , investment in sustainable aviation fuel production and the approval of a first - of - its - kind carbon capture and storage facility that will have an effect equivalent to take nearly 200 , 000 car off the road each year . the latter be make possible by this Government ' s commitment to provide certainty for business and investing in this energy cluster and the industry of the future . of course , this be not entirely down to the action of the Government or the council , but if we set the challenge , lead on it and show business that we be prepared to back they , they will respond , as we have see with industry - lead initiative such as Net Zero North West . in my constituency , Tata be in the process of develop another world first . for a long time , Northwich have be synonymous with the chemistry of salt , and Tata , follow completion of its EcoKarb carbon capture and utilisation plant , have announce that it will build a world - first facility to make the first sodium bicarbonate with net zero carbon emission . let we all move forward together on this fantastic work . I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests : I be an unpaid director of Reach community solar farm . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for South Cotswolds ( Dr Savage ) on bring this important Bill to the House , and on all the negotiation she have have to try to secure cross - party agreement on it . I start campaign on the environment quite a long time ago . my main concern then be that whale be at risk of become extinct and we have a hole in the ozone layer . the international community come together and we now see that whale population be increase and the blue whale have be bring back from the brink of extinction . we also phase out chlorofluorocarbon and the ozone layer be repair . so when we work together , we can achieve great thing . I have be hugely impressed and encourage by the cross - party agreement — with one or two exception — on the real need to move forward . I hope that we will not throw this away at the last minute . we have a way forward that would address a lot of these thing . we now know that our challenge be far great and that we need to worry not just about other specie ' survival , but about the survival of our own specie . more frequent and damaging wildfire and flood be take human life as well as destroy property , farm and wildlife . in my constituency of Ely and East Cambridgeshire , farmer be have to contend with rapidly change season . do my hon . friend agree that the Bill strive for that adaptation in farming , recognise the urgent need to develop agricultural resilience and sustainable farming practice , and actually offer true financial support , which would help our farmer ? I agree with my hon . friend and will come to that in a few minute . wetter winter and dry summer mean that our farmer can not plant when they plan to , and sometimes they miss a whole crop round . the crop do not fully ripen , so they have reduce harvest . the Ouse Washes flood early each winter and the flood last long , which close road and cut people off from school and hospital . wildlife be hatch at the time it always have , but the food that it rely on be not there , or it can not get access to water , so a generation die . the climate be change for the bad , and we be already see the impact around we . if we do not take action soon , many part of the world will become uninhabitable for people , most animal , bird , insect , plant and even most aquatic life . my beautiful constituency will also be largely under water , and as if that be not bad enough , that water will probably be salt water , cause tremendous damage to people and wildlife . our fen have be the breadbasket of Britain since at least roman time . they be also an amazing carbon sink . the Fenland soil group be meet next week in its fifth annual conference to bring together farmer , academic , wildlife charity , national and local government and various other group to consider how they can continue feed the nation while keep that carbon in our soil and make our soil healthy . the hon . Lady talk about protect a unique habitat . in my Shipley constituency we have peat bog , the restoration of which be essential for limit climate change . it be estimate that the Great North bog store 400 million tonne of carbon . the council be do a lot to rewet those area . will she join I in commend these restoration project ? I absolutely commend those restoration project in the right place . as I say , in the fen we need the food as well as the wetland , so we have to do the right thing in the right place . something I like about this Bill be that , as my hon . friend the Member for Tiverton and Minehead ( Rachel Gilmour ) say , it provide support for farmer , so that when they come up with idea for change their farming practice , they have the fund to deliver they . in the interest of time , I will just touch on one other aspect of the Bill that I think be particularly important , which be how address climate change and the transition have to take full consideration of the poor in our community . these be the people who live next to the most polluting road ; who live in flooding area and can not afford the insurance to help they after a flood ; and who can not afford to heat their house because their home be badly insulate and they still depend directly or indirectly on fossil fuel , which be very costly . it be so important to have these people at the centre of the Bill , because address climate change will help they to have a well life . we must ensure that the transition be fair , that it deliver job across the country and that it do not just keep put financial burden on people . my hon . friend ' s point about bring people with we be so important . do she also support the Bill ' s provision on retraining , which will help we in the transition and move forward ? I agree entirely that we need to retrain in order to ensure that everyone can benefit from this transition . do my hon . friend agree with my constituent Freya , who say : " I be 15 and I be afraid . I can do thing in the community , but unless we have join - up Government action , we have no hope " ? we have various Ministers here as a result of this private Member ' s Bill , which address the yawn gap between Departments . I agree entirely with my hon . friend . Freya and the many other constituent I know have write to all of we should be assure that we be work together across this House . in conclusion , I support the Bill entirely . I thank my hon . friend the Member for South Cotswolds for work hard to get concession from the Government and to get cross - party consensus . I ask hon . member to hold that together and support the different aspect of the Bill . I begin by draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I pay huge tribute to the hon . member for South Cotswolds ( Dr Savage ) for secure this debate and give these vital issue the parliamentary and ministerial attention they deserve . I know from my own time as a new MP , back in 2006 , run the Children ' s Food Bill through the parliamentary process , that it be a very steep learning curve . it be clear that there be much to learn about this process , and about how progressive change take place in this House . in that case , I withdraw my child ' s Food Bill because I know that the Government be go to do something later that would implement the thing I want to do . will the Minister give way ? I be go to make a couple of opening remark , and then I will take intervention . for more than two decade , the hon . Lady have be a fearless environmental campaigner . row the Atlantic , Pacific and indian ocean , she understand well than any of we our planet ' s beauty , strength and vulnerability to climate change , ocean acidification and global warming — as storm É owyn rage across the country , with the island of Ireland under a red alert , it be certainly not a day for anybody to be out on the irish sea . I be grateful for the opportunity to discuss the twin issue of climate and nature with the hon . Lady today . as a former Chair of the Environmental Audit Committee , I share her passion for measurable , specific , time - bind target with clear Government plan to underpin they in order to achieve progress . what we can say , and what the Climate Change Committee have say , be that the previous Government be strong on long - term target but very short on interim target to get we to those place . we can not will the end without will the mean . I thank the Minister , with whom I serve on the Environmental Audit Committee when she be Chair . at that time we be very critical of the Environment Act 2021 , and the lack of delivery on a deposit return scheme and a neonicotinoids ban . both of those thing the Minister have achieve this week . that be delivery in action . target be target , but delivery and action be utmost , and the Government be undertake that on nature . my hon . friend make a great point , and I thank he for the sterling work he have do campaigning on those issue , not just in Leeds but nationally . he be right that when it come to politic , it be all about show , not tell . I leave this House in 2019 , and these be subject that I care about even when I be not a Member of Parliament . the climate and nature crisis be what drive I to put myself forward for election again , because this be the place where we can make thing happen . I hear what the hon . member for South Cotswolds say about placard and protest , and about how the art of politic be about govern and choose . it be clear that the Government do not wish to divide on this issue — in either meaning of that word — so can the Minister please reassure my constituent who desperately want to see the Bill adopt that there will be meaningful change in the Government ' s approach and , in particular , bind commitment on the nature provision , so that the backsliding we see from the previous Government do not continue under this one ? I give the hon . member my assurance on that . I want to make it absolutely clear that this be a long - stand problem . we have hear from both the Father of the House and the former baby of the House , my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham East ( Nadia Whittome ) . [ interruption . ] not the Father of the House — the almost Father of the House . from a grandfather to an almost baby . the Minister may wish to reflect on those comment before she resume her speech . I apologise for accidentally promote the right hon . member for Herne Bay and Sandwich ( Sir Roger Gale ) to Father of the House . he speak as a grandfather with passion and energy on this issue , as do the former baby of the House , my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham East — it be an issue that span generation and party . in this debate we have have a tour of all the beauty that be in our different constituency . I feel that I , along with the Climate Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Bristol East ( Kerry McCarthy ) , will have to go on a massive tour of Britain , to do our brief justice and make headway on this issue . I also pay tribute to a late , great friend of mine , Lord John Prescott . we have hear talk about Kyoto ; he show that a seafarer from Hull could be the person who get climate agreement when the talk be gridlocke . he show that the nature and climate emergency be not elite preoccupation ; it be the preoccupation not just of landowner or protestor , but of every work person in this country , and every citizen of this planet . I pay tribute to he and share my deep condolence to his family and friend on their loss . do go and see " Kyoto " at the Soho Place theatre , and get the extra - special climate lanyard on the way in . do the Minister agree that it be vital that we embrace the Bill in order to protect those everyday constituent such as mine in Shrewsbury , for whom flooding have move from a once - in - 100 - year event to a regular misery each year , as they pay the human cost of climate change ? I agree with my hon . friend , and she be right that we be invest more than ever in flood defence . I be now go to make a bit of progress . we know that we be live through an age of extinction , and that damaged ecosystem be less able to absorb the emission that we continue to create . last year be not just the hot year on record , but the first to record an average global temperature above the internationally agree 1 . 5 ° C threshold . from the Valencia flood to the Florida hurricane , from typhoon in the Philippines to drought and wildfire in the Amazon , and of course the devastating wildfire that have leave thousand under mandatory evacuation order in Los Angeles , we see extreme weather exacerbate by climate change last year . Dr Friederike Otto of Imperial College London call 2024 a " reality check " and say that it " show just how dangerous life be at 1 . 5c . " this be not somebody else ' s problem ; this be not our child ' s problem — this be our problem . as our Prime Minister have say , climate change know no border . it threaten national security and economic stability . our mission be to end poverty on a liveable planet , so the day of stick our head in the sand and betray future generation be over . we be change course . many hon . member have speak ably of the importance of river and waterway and the nature contain within they . will the Minister continue to work on that issue and address the shameful legacy of the Tories ? I be go to speak at great length on flooding and water and the measure we have already take — I have several page on that . let I say what this mission - drive Government be all about . we know one of our mission be to make the UK a clean energy superpower , include accelerate to net zero emission while seize the economic opportunity that come with that . we be back in the business of climate leadership and will restore the UK ' s position as a global leader on climate action , deliver at home and work abroad with our international partner . I can confirm , have be a Member of the previous Parliament , that I see a transformative difference in what this Government be do compare with the previous Government . I also absolutely believe in cross - party working . a crucial aspect of the Bill be that it ensure we in the UK account for overseas emission and ecological damage drive by our import . can she confirm that the Government will also look at emission from our import ? I thank the hon . member for that , and she be right . the Climate Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Bristol East ( Kerry McCarthy ) , be with I on the Front Bench , and we will have more to say about that . let I talk about what we have do so far . in COP29 in Baku , our mission be clear . in just six month , we have lift the de facto ban on onshore wind in England , consent 2 GW of solar power , deliver a record - break renewable auction after the previous auction under the last Government have no taker , establish Great British Energy — if the shadow Minister want to intervene , I would be happy to stand correct . the Minister say the auction be unsuccessful on renewable . while it be certainly the case that we do not reach the target on offshore wind that we would have like , the auction be incredibly successful for other technology , include the first ever ringfence funding for new and emerge technology , such as tidal and wave power , so it be not an unsuccessful auction . well , talk be cheap . the shadow Minister wax poetic about the success of the previous Government on offshore wind . if it be such a triumph , why do not a single offshore company turn to bid ? it can not be a successful auction if there be no bidder . we have help launch new carbon capture and hydrogen industry . on nature , my right hon . friend the Member for Streatham and Croydon North ( Steve Reed ) have launch a rapid review of the previous Government ' s environmental improvement plan . in the come day , we will publish a statement of its key finding and will have a revise plan later in 2025 . we have deliver the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill to improve water quality and have strengthen the arm of the regulator to hold company to account where they do not deliver for consumer and the environment . the Bill will put water company under tough special measure by strengthen regulation , begin the work of clean up our river , lake and sea . as a co - sponsor , I have be so impressed by the way the Minister and the hon . member for South Cotswolds ( Dr Savage ) have talk , negotiate and bring the Bill forward . she ask whether we be willing to act — yes , we be clearly willing to act . will the Minister ensure that the dialogue continue ? I be happy to agree with my hon . friend and will say that the era of grow - up government be thoroughly back in town . we be show our support for nature - friendly farming by introduce a new deal for farmer , support by £ 5 billion of funding that will boost Britain ' s food security , restore nature and support rural economic growth . on flooding — the great risk our country face from climate change — we have invest £ 2 . 5 billion over two year . it be not just about build the defence , because once build , they have to be look after . maintenance under the previous Government fall behind , leave 80 , 000 property at risk . in York , the Foss flood defence barrier give way ; it be just not acceptable to have flood defence that can be overtop in a severe weather event . we have set up a flood resilience taskforce to deal with the increase challenge of flood defence problem . as one of few who can remember when the dinosaur become extinct , I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her generous remark early . be this not about the future of our child and our grandchild , and about the kind of world we grow up in ? let I take she back to her remark about farming , as the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs be present . we will not save our agriculture if we smother our field in so - call solar farm and thing such as the converter station that the National Grid want to build on farmland in east Kent . we must strike a balance between the need to get to net zero and protect our natural environment . it be quite clear that the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero and the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs be not talk to each other properly . have have an outbreak of consensus , I be afraid I have to gently disagree with the right hon . Gentleman . across Government we be in the process of put together a land use framework — something long promise by his government , but sadly not deliver . accord to the most ambitious estimate of solar energy , less than 1 % of current farmland would be use for electricity . of course , for many farmer who be suffer the effect of climate change , solar farm be an important alternative income stream . the land use framework will set out our approach and be part of a national consultation on how we measure the compete pressure on our land and environment . we have pledge up to £ 400 million across the next two year for tree planting and peatland restoration , and £ 70 million to support nature ' s recovery while deliver much - need infrastructure and housing . we have finalise the criterion for land to contribute to 30by30 in England , and we be develop a strategy to accelerate progress towards that target . in the area of circular economy , we be take a number of step to make recycling easy and to ban single - use vape , as have be mention . this week , the conservative party vote against the deposit return scheme , which they formulate when in government — what an extraordinary position to find themselves in . we will continue to work at pace to restore and protect our natural world , achieve clean power by 2030 , boost our energy security , and create job and sustainable , clean growth across the country . but we can not do it alone . nature , bird , fish and weather system go where they want , as do disease , virus and pollution . we see that with ash dieback and we see it with global plastic pollution , where we be negotiate to get an ambitious global plastic pollution treaty . I attend the COP16 conference on biodiversity in Colombia and the climate COP29 in Azerbaijan . there , we set out a range of new commitment , include £ 45 million for the global biodiversity framework fund . we set up the Cali fund , a new international fund for nature , which will give business use online genetic sequence datum from plant and animal the opportunity to contribute to global nature recovery . I encourage people to work with business in their constituency and to spread the word on that . we be look at innovative funding mechanism for nature , such as the independent advisory panel on biodiversity credit , co - sponsor by the UK and France , which want to scale up high - integrity credit market and generate more finance for nature . at COP29 , the Prime Minister confirm that our nationally determine contribution would be an 81 % reduction on 1990 carbon emission by 2035 . that exclude international aviation and shipping , but , follow the advice of the Climate Change Committee , I believe that those two area will be introduce into our sixth carbon budget from 2033 . we confirm at the conference that at least £ 3 billion between 2020 - 21 and 2025 - 26 will be spend on nature . I be also pleased to inform the House that the UK have be select to host the next meeting of IPBES , the intergovernmental science - policy platform on biodiversity and ecosystem service . this be the science panel for nature — the ipcc for nature . IPBES 12 , in early 2026 , will focus on the agreement and publication of a business and biodiversity assessment . we will maximise that moment in our calendar to have a national conversation about the UK ' s leadership on the science in this area . it be a real joy for I and my hon . friend the Climate Minister to work alongside our special international representative for nature , Ruth Davis , and for climate , Rachel Kyte , who be drive leadership , ambition and delivery on nature and climate internationally as we move towards COP30 in Brazil this year . the Minister mention the focus on biodiversity in the UK . as the MP for a constituency with four chalk stream , I highlight how unique that precious land be . there be only 200 chalk stream in the whole world , so will the Minister join I in celebrate the need to preserve the uniqueness of nature in the UK ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . our chalk stream and peatland be internationally important . they be our equivalent of the Amazon rainforest , and we do not want the over - abstraction that have lead to their depreciation under previous government . the Secretary of State have announce a rapid review of the environmental improvement plan . we will set out a clear path for deliver against the Environment Act target . we know that biodiversity loss be as much of a threat as change to our climate . one million specie face extinction . wildlife population have fall 69 % since 1970 . that be why we be reset our approach to nature and put it at the heart of our governmental approach . the vast majority of our biodiversity be in our sea , 90 % of which be in our overseas territory . do the Minister agree that it be critical that the UK have show leadership in ratify the global oceans treaty and sign the Apia ocean declaration ? I do agree . we be look for a legislative vehicle to enable we to ratify the biodiversity beyond national jurisdiction treaty , or BBNJ . I be name - dropping here , but from my conversation with President Emmanuel Macron — sorry about that — whom I have the privilege of meeting at the United Nations General Assembly , I know that this be an issue on which he be very keen for we to show leadership . People around the world be look to our country to show leadership . we must not fail . we have the Ramsar wetland COP15 in Zimbabwe next July ; I could wax very lyrical about wetland , but I will make some progress . the four nation of the UK , the overseas territory and the Crown dependency have be work collaboratively to produce a UK - wide national biodiversity strategy and action plan , NBSAP . we submit our target to the convention on 1 August and will meet all those target at home . we will publish the full action plan in due course , as I know my hon . friend the Member for Brent West ( Barry Gardiner ) will be pleased to hear . [ interruption . ] let I move on , very quickly , to part of the Bill , because I can hear cough . it be a shame , because there be so much more to say . we be proud to have set legally bind target through the Climate Change Act to reduce our greenhouse gas emission . we be commit to 13 legally bind environmental target under the Environment Act , and halt the decline in specie by 2030 be certainly very ambitious . in the propose Bill , the hon . member for South Cotswolds note that environmental improvement plan be not accessible to all , and propose the establishment of a climate and nature assembly . we agree that engagement with and access to nature provide clear benefit , and we want to help drive action for the environment , include through volunteering , citizen science , and build the innate connection and care that we all have in respect of the natural world . we will design our plan with user , and we have agree to look forward far with young people and get they engage in this process , as we do during the climate cop . will the Minister give way ? no , I will not . I be go to make some progress . we agree that engagement with body such as the Climate Change Committee , the Office for Environmental Protection and the Joint Nature Conservation Committee be key to our achievement of these target . we also agree that non - governmental partner have a huge role to play in monitoring , advise , and scrutinise progress and plan . I look forward to meet with the Minister for Climate , my hon . friend the Member for Bristol East , and the hon . member for South Cotswolds next week to discuss far how to take this work forward . let I compliment the hon . Lady on her work and that of NGOs , academic and partner across the climate and nature space , and on the impressive campaign that they have drive to get a join - up approach across both policy area . this will be a great opportunity to discuss the environmental improvement plan review , and to demonstrate that we be take our target very seriously . I can also tell the hon . Lady that we be go to strengthen the relationship between the JNCC , the CCC and the special representative , because the siloed approach to climate and nature respectively be divide work , and the work happen at an international level should be reflect here as well . we will look at strengthen datum report on our consumption emission , and at narrative concern the import emission to which the Bill refer . it be often say that this be the decade to clean up our planet . we have a Prime Minister who be determined to make the UK a clean energy superpower and reclaim our status as global climate leader , a Foreign Secretary who know that international climate and nature action be fundamental to global security and prosperity , an Energy Secretary who be work in overdrive to achieve clean power by 2030 , and an Environment Secretary who have waste no time in take bold step to restore our natural environment . we have a Government who recognise the need for collaboration across the House and wide society , and recognise the foundation that nature and climate provide for reach our national clean growth mission . we be truly bless on this island , with natural landscape , abundant energy resource , cut - edge innovation , globally lead science , and the power of people and partnership . while we be under no illusion about the scale and urgency of the challenge , we be confident that it can , must and will be meet . we will create a safe , more secure , more sustainable and more prosperous future . once again , I thank the hon . member for South Cotswolds for bring this issue to the House , and for work — with her colleague and across the House — to deliver on our climate and nature target . motion make , and question put , that the debate be now adjourn . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) Jack Abbott Zubir Ahmed Dan Aldridge Rushanara Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Danny Beales Torsten Bell Rachel Blake Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Phil Brickell Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Feryal Clark Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Neil Coyle Mary Creagh Torcuil Crichton Janet Daby Shaun Davies Josh Dean Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Stephen Doughty Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Miatta Fahnbulleh Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Vicky Foxcroft Barry Gardiner Becky Gittins Georgia Gould Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Rachel Hopkins Leigh Ingham Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Gurinder Josan Mike Kane Liz Kendall Naushabah Khan Gen Kitchen Kim Leadbeater Simon Lightwood Alice Macdonald Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Kerry McCarthy Lola McEvoy Stephen Morgan Margaret Mullane Ian Murray James Murray Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Alex Norris Melanie Onn Abena Oppong - Asare Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Gregor Poynton Steve Reed Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq John Slinger Jeff Smith Wes Streeting Mark Tami David Taylor Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Christopher Vince Matt Western John Whitby Jo White Rosie wrighte Steve Yemm Christian Wakeford Martin McCluskey Shockat Adam Si â n Berry Christopher Chope Carla Denyer Rosie Duffield Iqbal Mohamed Adrian Ramsay Ellie chown Jeremy Corbyn the House divide : Ayes 120 , Noes 7 . question accordingly agree to . debate to be resume on Friday 11 July . Gambling Act 2005 ( Monetary Limits for Lotteries ) Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . order . I hope that those who just walk past the Member about to speak be go to apologise . this be a small and , on the surface , technical look Bill , but one that would revolutionise charity fundraising in constituency up and down the country . the key clause be 1 ( 2 ) , which would omit subsection ( 3 ) from section 99 of the Gambling Act 2005 . the law that would be change be a requirement place on charity lottery alone that cap the proceed of their sale in any give year . put another way , if someone be run a purely profit - drive lottery with no societal benefit , there be no cap on the number of ticket they can sell , but for charity lottery — the most well - know be the People ' s Postcode Lottery — there be a cap of £ 5 million per draw and £ 50 million over the course of a calendar year . what clause 1 ( 2 ) would do — indeed , this be the purpose of the whole Bill — be remove that cap and allow unlimited charitable fundraising from licensed lottery sale , because , of course , it be important that the proceed of the lottery go to charity , rather than just create big and big prize pot . as thing stand , there be a limit on prize of £ 25 , 000 or , if it be more , 10 % of the proceed of the lottery . the limit be therefore £ 500 , 000 with the current cap . all the stakeholder agree that we ought to amend section 99 ( 4 ) of the 2005 Act so that it read £ 500 , 000 , to maintain the current prize level . my Bill seek the Government ' s agreement to that and ask they to exercise their power under clause 3 to make the relevant consequential provision . that be the extent of the Bill — two small legislative change with a huge consequence for charity across the UK . there be approximately 500 charity lottery operator generate more than £ 450 million for good cause every year . as I have mention , the large of these be the People ' s Postcode Lottery ; indeed , it be the one with the large reach in every constituency . to date , the People ' s Postcode Lottery have cope with the fact that demand exceed the cap by establish different postcode trust that each operate on a thematic or geographical basis , but I would argue that there be three fundamental problem with that . first , it be incredibly bureaucratic , with each trust have to have its own licence , monthly return , registration under Scottish , English and Welsh law , trustee , audit and risk committee , monthly and annual account , financial audits , website and so on . that bureaucracy increase cost that could otherwise be use for good cause . secondly , it be deeply inflexible , with the fund raise under each trust be require to be direct to the trust theme or geographical designation . right now , we see storm É owyn cause destruction over Northern Ireland and Scotland . if there be damage or some sort of major accident cause loss of life , charity , as they always do , will step in to urgently provide support . however , the People ' s Postcode Lottery , for example , would not be able to divert fund to assist with such effort because of the current rule on trust , as a result of the cap . thirdly , even if we accept the additional bureaucracy and the restriction on where fund be deploy , at the end of the day , all the evidence still show that fundraising be be limit by the cap , and in any case , their value be erode by inflation . it be estimate that if we do nothing and keep the cap today , the charity support by the People ' s Postcode Lottery will lose out on £ 175 million over the next five year . I challenge anyone in the House to argue that the charity in their constituency would not benefit from that funding . we already benefit from funding in North East Fife , and I would love to see more support for fantastic local initiative . I will list some of the individual project that have be support in the last two year alone . St Agatha ' s and St Andrews nursery receive fund for the cost of outdoor education equipment and training . there have be support for Scotland ' s international poetry festival , StAnza , which take place in St Andrews every year — I be look forward to March ' s programme . the Newburgh wellbeing choir , which provide support for people live with dementia , be able to hire professional singer train in dementia inclusion to lead the group . Nurture Steps have a project fund to run support session for parent of young child with disability , and Veterans Tribe Scotland be support on a significant project to reduce isolation , loneliness and anxiety among those who have serve our country . there be fund allocate to maintain a community play field at Dunbog community hall . in the late summer , I hope to go to the Cupar big weekend , which have also be support by charity lottery . I could go on ; there be countless project . for example , the Cupar food bank and local brownie unit receive funding from their central body , the Trussell Trust and Girlguiding , that also come from charity lottery . I commend my hon . friend for bring the Bill before the House and for all her work to promote charity lottery . do she agree that , in addition to all the organisation she have list in her constituency , the MS Therapy Centre in Milton Park , Chilton county primary school and the Letcombe Brook Project in my Oxfordshire constituency would benefit far if the Bill progress ? my hon . friend have just exemplify what I say early . every single one of we have probably attend drop - in in Parliament and see the benefit of charity lottery in our local community . fundraising be not a one - off thing . there will be other project that be not successful in get funding , or all the funding they need , because it have not be available under the current system . I would like to bring in some of those charity ' voice directly . I hope the Minister be aware that before Christmas , over 100 charity leader write to the Prime Minister ask he to support my Bill . they point to the absurdity of charity fundraising be restrict . they note , and I have to agree , that " support this vital reform would send a strong message on the Labour Government ' s back for , and belief in the third sector and a vibrant , well - fund society . " I speak with one the signatory of the letter , Children first , early this week . it say : " in a financial climate that be more challenging than ever , we rely on charitable fundraising to deliver the essential service we provide to child and family across the country . importantly , " — and I think this be a very important point — " the unrestricted nature of the funding mean we be more able to use the money in the most effective way for child and family , bridge gap in the ever - complex funding environment . many of our service rely on a jigsaw of income , sometimes stretch to 20 different source all with condition , datum gathering and reporting requirement . this , in turn , have an impact on how much we can do for the child and family we support as time and energy be lock into sustain funding as oppose to support family . " my hon . friend talk about the financial pressure that charity face . Volunteer Centre West Berkshire have say that charity in West Berkshire will need to find an additional £ 383 , 000 next year just to stand still , because of the increase to the minimum wage and national insurance contribution . with the Government cause charity concern through national insurance , do she agree that her Bill would allow they to ameliorate some of that harm ? yes , I absolutely agree . indeed , in a Westminster Hall debate just last week , where the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Isle of Wight East ( Joe Robertson ) , also speak , I highlight that very thing : the national insurance increase will hurt charity , and there be an opportunity for the Government , through my Bill , to ameliorate some of that . child First also say that it understand that technical barrier place limit on the way that charity lottery provide fund and that it support call to remove the cap . there be about 170 , 000 charity across the UK . of course , not all of they want or need charity funding , but many thousand do . there be many reason why the House should support the Bill . I understand some of the Government ' s concern . I have be tell that they be worried about the impact on the national lottery , consider the Secretary of State ' s statutory obligation to maximise its success . however , I would argue that there be no evidence to suggest there be a detrimental impact on the national lottery from charity lottery . the Gambling Commission have investigate this three time in the last 15 year , most recently in October 2017 , and find no statistically significant effect of charity lottery on national lottery sale . that be confirm again in 2022 in an impact assessment by Regulus Partners . my goal with the Bill be to keep the distinct nature of the national lottery by protect its much large prize pot . this weekend , the lotto ' s prize be £ 4 million , while the Euromillions ' be £ 83 million . in change the law on sale , we want to change the current price cap to keep the prize maximum at £ 500 , 000 . it be a very different ball game , and the Bill support the evidence that player of one lottery often play the other as well . I know that the Government be await update research . I suggest that the Government choose to progress my Bill today and consider the research at Committee stage or later . from my conversation with the Minister , I understand that the Government be determined to hold their current position that they want to see the evidence first . I hope that the Minister will confirm the commitment to make the research public when it be receive and to update the House on the Government ' s review of the research before the summer recess . I hope she will then set out any legislative action the Government be prepared to take . I know that the Minister support these reform in opposition and be therefore sympathetic to the purpose of the Bill . I be sure she be aware of the money charity in her constituency have benefit from and will continue to benefit from . the Station House Community Association in her constituency note the following in a project description : " this grant have support our running cost — just like everyone else all our bill have increase and we need to cover these cost . " as my hon . friend the Member for Newbury ( Mr Dillon ) highlight , this be an issue we hear everywhere , particularly now that charity be face with the additional cost of national insurance contribution . increase fundraising to counterbalance these additional cost will be increasingly vital over the year ahead if charitable project that we all champion be to survive . the Bill offer a way for the Government to support such charity , and at no cost to the taxpayer . it be a win - win in my view . before I finish , I would like to touch on gambling harm . I be a strong believer in reform to the sector to protect people from problem gambling . Public Health England have say that there be more than 400 gambling - relate suicide a year and that it cost the UK £ 1 . 4 billion . extrapolation of this datum by Gambling with life suggest that up to 650 gambling - relate suicide take place across the UK each year . my party want to see a compulsory levy on gambling company to fund research , education , treatment , restriction on advertising and the establishment of a gambling ombudsman . the seriousness of addictive , problem gambling can not be underestimate . I want to outline the step that the People ' s Postcode Lottery take to tackle it . player sign up to a monthly subscription to be enter into the draw . the number of monthly subscription for a single player be limited , and draw take place throughout the month with result publish accordingly . one of the most influential factor in the development of gambling problem be the ability to gamble in real time over and over again . charity lottery do not allow real - time gambling , so it take away the ability to chase a perceive high . lottery be widely recognise as be low - risk game compare to other form of gambling . to conclude , I feel confident that there be only benefit to the Bill . there be benefit to the charity sector , which be face unprecedented pressure , to local charity and community project , and ultimately to all of our constituent . I call the shadow Minister . it be a pleasure to speak on behalf of his Majesty ' s loyal opposition on this important matter . I congratulate the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) on bring forward this Bill . she have speak with passion and knowledge on an issue that she clearly know and care much about . I also thank she for support my Westminster Hall debate on a related issue that be particularly important for charity : the impact of this Government ' s national insurance increase . the simple and well - intentione aim behind the Bill be to allow charity to raise more money to deliver on their charitable aim , and the hon . Lady seek to do that by dispose of the limit impose by the Gambling Act 2005 . she have already refer to the People ' s Postcode Lottery , and we have hear how much it do to support charity in our constituency up and down the country , include in mine on the Isle of Wight . who would not want to support charity such as the People ' s Postcode Lottery ? the lead argument against restrict the cap on charity lottery be that they might then compete with the national lottery , which be not subject to this cap . that be a legitimate concern . it be in all our interest that the national lottery continue to thrive , but research have be do on competition between charity lottery and the national lottery . in 2017 , the Gambling Commission find " no statistically significant effect of Charity Lotteries affect National Lottery sale . " indeed , it remark that the national lottery and society lottery have continue to grow side by side . consequently , the previous Conservative Government partially liberalise charity lottery sale and prize limit in 2020 . two year later , the Digital , Culture , Media and Sport Committee take evidence on the matter , and its subsequent report , " what next for the National Lottery ? " , say : " we do not consider that society lottery pose a threat to the charitable giving of the National Lottery , in line with the view of the Gambling Commission and the Department . " the conservative support the principle of allow charity to raise more money , include from society lottery , and reduce the regulatory burden place upon they . the previous Government commission independent research , as the hon . Member have refer to , and she ask some question of the Minister , which I endorse . can the Minister say whether the research have be receive at the Department , and will she give an indication of its summary ? before finish , I will briefly discuss the importance of charity ' work in deliver £ 17 billion of public service each year , without which the public sector could not do its work . this government bear great responsibility to support charity through additional fundraising than might otherwise have be the case , because they be take an estimate £ 1 . 4 billion from charity through their increase to national insurance contribution in the Budget . the Government know that will damage the public service that charity deliver . that be why they exempt the NHS , but they provide no such exemption for charity deliver health and social care , charity support people who need housing , charity try to lift people out of poverty , charity try to cure disease , and charity support victim of violence against woman and girl . I urge the Government to act . they owe charity the support and they owe charity compensation for the money they be take off they in extra tax . this Bill would just be a start . I thank the hon . member once again for bring this important issue before the House , and I wish she every success in realise the aim and objective behind the Bill . I thank the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) for bring forward this private Member ' s Bill . we all recognise what the Bill be try to achieve and agree that the Government should look at a review into this area . I also thank she for her recognition of the harm of gambling . I have friend who be recover gambling addict , and I know what a huge and damaging impact it have have on their life . I want to take a moment to recognise some of the charity in my constituency , many of which I have have first - hand experience of work with . I have the honour of work for Streets to Homes , a charity that support homeless people , rough sleeper and the hide homeless . there be also action for Family Carers — a speech do not go by without I mention young carer in this place — and raze Roof , an inclusive theatre company that I have the pleasure of visit yesterday . in short , it give adult with learn difficulty the opportunity not only to socialise , but to thrive and be a huge part of the community . I look forward to its performance at the Holocaust Memorial Day service on Sunday . I will quickly mention YCT — another charity of which I be a trustee — which provide counselling support to young people in my constituency . the problem with mention charity in our constituency be that there be always a danger of miss one out — I be sure that I will get an email later . I will quickly mention Livewire , butterfly Effect Wellbeing , Rainbow Services and , as mention by the hon . member for North East Fife , the Michael Roberts Charitable Trust . I will talk briefly about my issue with funding for charity , have work in the charity sector myself . when charity look at get funding , that funding be often very short term , and funding organisation always talk about new project yet fail to recognise that quite a lot of charity just need ongoing funding for the important work they already do . I really emphasise the importance of look at that . I will finish by quote my favourite Prime Minister and — controversially — disagree with he . which one ? member will work it out . he once say : " charity be a cold grey loveless thing . " we can all agree that we live in a very different world from when Clement Attlee be Prime Minister . the charity in my constituency of Harlow do a great deal of important work — I know that as I have be part of that myself — and I think we all agree that how they be fund need to be look at . I look forward to hear the Minister ' s response , when she can talk we through that . I thank the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) for bring forward this motion . society lottery provide vital funding for hundred of charity , community group and sport club . indeed , I have see the impact of that in my own constituency of Barnsley South , where society lottery such as the People ' s Postcode Lottery be benefit great local cause , from DIAL , which support disabled people , to Magic Breakfast , which provide kid with a meal to start the school day . in that context , the Government have a clear message : we want society lottery to thrive . in the interest of time , I want to be clear from the outset that the Government have a clear commitment to update the House on our position with regard to society lottery by the summer recess , once we be in receipt of the independent research , which I will come to discuss if there be time . we be not yet in receipt of the final research , but we understand that that will be here by the end of next month . I make that clear commitment to update the House by the summer recess — we have have discussion to that effect . as hon . member will know , there have long be mandatory condition and limit on sale and prize for society lottery . those have be review and adjust before , most recently by the previous Government , who introduce new sale limit for society lottery , increase the annual ticket sale limit fivefold , from £ 10 million to £ 50 million . of course , umbrella lottery organisation may also operate with multiple licence : for example , the People ' s Postcode Lottery currently hold 20 operator licence and be therefore able to sell a combined total of £ 1 billion - worth of ticket each year . I acknowledge the strength of feeling behind the proposal in the Bill to remove the annual sale limit for society lottery . I would like to speak briefly about some of the factor that the Government will consider for potential reform . of course , we must reflect on where the sector be now and where it may be in future . the current picture be broadly positive , with recent evidence show that society lottery have continue to grow in popularity since the limit be change in 2020 . the vast majority of society lottery be also currently operate well within exist limit . however , the Government do recognise the challenge for large - scale umbrella lottery , some of which have multiple licence for multiple trust , and we know that a small number of those may reach a limit within the follow year and that there be cost associate with operate in that way . we do not take this lightly , but it be worth note that the current system do not hinder overall sale of society lottery ticket for those organisation . far to that , our support for lottery raise as much money as possible be unwavering . we be also keen to well understand how the growth in sale be translate into the investment in good cause . the current picture suggest that high sale have not lead to an equivalent increase in funding for good cause , and there may be room to improve that . a second element be the research that I reference . the current evidence and datum show that society lottery be grow in popularity and revenue . the Government have commission independent research into the lottery market as a whole to help we strengthen that evidence base ahead of any further review of limit . this research — the debate stand adjourn ( Standing Order No . 11 ( 2 ) ) . order , that the debate be resume on Friday 11 July . business without Debate Pets ( Microchips ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 7 March . Covid - 19 Vaccine Damage Payments Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 7 March . Anonymity of Suspects Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 7 March . child ' s Clothing ( Value Added Tax ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 7 March . Palestine Statehood ( Recognition ) ( no . 2 ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 June . election ( Proportional Representation ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 11 July . Public Procurement ( british Goods and Services ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 7 March . river , Streams and Lakes ( Protected Status ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 28 March . child Criminal Exploitation ( no . 2 ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 7 March . Pension ( Special Rules for end of Life ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 14 March . Highways Act 1980 ( Amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 7 March . British Broadcasting Corporation ( Privatisation ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 7 March . Illegal Immigration ( Offences ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 7 March . unauthorised Entry to Football Matches Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 7 March . Vaccine Damage Payments Act ( Review ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 7 March . NHS England ( Alternative Treatment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 7 March . Terminal Illness ( Relief of Pain ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 7 March . Covid - 19 Vaccine Damage Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 7 March . marriage ( prohibit Degrees of Relationship ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 7 March . Antisocial Behaviour : Hertfordshire Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) 2 . 34 pm there be people in Hemel Hempstead who live in constant fear ; people who be too scared to leave their home , or who fear for their child ' s safety . those people be not statistic , they be not number ; these be their life . I wish to tell the House about someone call Tom — I have change name and place for people ' s safety . Tom serve in the emergency service for 20 year , put his life on the line for other . he serve our community and keep we safe , yet now he be the one who live in fear . Tom , who live with his wife and four child , tell I that he live near a house that be use for drug dealing . over 90 separate drug deal have be report to the police and , thank to his diligence , that be back by hundred of hour of CCTV footage and photo . drug dealing be a serious crime , but in its wake come a wave of other antisocial behaviour , with the constant , endless noise of people come and go at all hour , the slamming of door , shout , scare child , motorbike fly up and down the road , and the incessant smell of noxious drug . Needles and paraphernalia lie strew around the area that Tom be proud of — the area he protect for 20 year . be that what Tom deserve , after protect our community for so long ? Tom be not alone . let I tell the House a story about Cassy — again , not her real name . Cassy have an eight - year - old son . he like math , football and play outside . in recent month , however , he have be too scared to play outside , and even if he wasn ' t , other child have also stop venture outdoors . why be that ? because the communal garden where he once play his favourite sport lie litter with dog poo . People have try to clean it up , but large , aggressive dog let loose act as a deterrent to any community - minded people . the green space , once a makeshift football pitch , have turn into a place for people to smoke drug , play loud music at all hour of the day , and shout abuse at any passerby . Cassy ' s son , at just eight year old , live in fear . due to the ongoing stress , Cassy be on antidepressant and her husband Gary be in therapy . their son be so fearful that he can not sleep alone , scare that the thug outside will make their way into their home . it be not just drug and aggressive behaviour , because another constituent at one of my surgery , Maria , tell I of her case . she and her partner , child and neighbour have be deal with an abusive , unsafe and disruptive resident since June 2023 , who have be let intoxicated people into their building and threaten violence . Rubbish be pile high and attract rodent , with smash window and alleged arson — those be just some of the thing that Maria and her family have have deal with . when consider Tom , Cassy , Gary and Maria , and the other 55 constituent who have write to I about this , as well as the other who be too scared to report their case to I at all , there be a theme , but antisocial behaviour sit in a grey area . the hard - work police be often not resource . the council often relay that it be a police matter , and housing association be often limited in how they respond . meanwhile , resident suffer . I congratulate the hon . member on secure this debate . as a neighbouring member from Hertfordshire , I know that this be an important issue for our constituent . I recent survey high street business in my constituency , and they say that one of their big issue be antisocial behaviour . do he agree that this issue also impact our high street and business ? I entirely agree , and I would point to some of the visit I have make to business in my constituency because , as the hon . Member will know , there be similar theme . it be a slightly different point , but I be grateful that this Government be plan to bring in new measure to crack down on shoplifting , which be also a big problem and often go unpunished . Hemel Hempstead , my community , be in a tough position . in January 2024 we be the bad major town in Hertfordshire for antisocial behaviour , with more than 200 report incident . the town centre be one of the most dangerous town in Hertfordshire . local stakeholder tell I just this morning that Dacorum have the high number of vulnerable child at risk of exploitation from drug dealer and county line in the county . the overall crime rate in 2023 be 95 crime per 1 , 000 people . damningly , between 2014 and 2024 , the crime rate double . on the doorstep and at my surgery , many Hemel resident have ask I why we be in this mess . I tell they that we have a Conservative Government and , until 2023 , a conservative borough council ; we have a Conservative county council and conservative police and crime commissioner , and we have a Conservative MP . the hon . member ' s party have be in government for over six month now . what have change in that time ? the hon . Member know that I try to work with he locally in a constructive way , and I will in future , but the problem that we have in Hemel Hempstead be 14 year in the making . some of they go back 20 year , because of long - stand issue . it be fair to point out that the people in charge of those issue at the time could have do more to help resolve they . he will know that I be try to find solution together and not point the finger or look backwards , but the number do not lie . it be impossible to ignore the indisputable fact that in the time that the Conservatives be in power — 14 year nationally and long locally — local crime have skyrocket . they ignore anti - social behaviour , cut our police force by 20 , 000 officer nationally and take 60p out of every pound from local authority . objectively , that be why we be where we be . it be their mess , and people in my patch be the one deal with it . in the time that the Conservatives be in power , crime in Hemel double . I defy anyone to defend that record . the hon . Gentleman be be generous in allow I to intervene again . similar to part of my constituency , Hemel have great transport link . county line be a relatively new phenomenon , and one of the downside of our road and train network be that crime be come out of London . have he work with the London Labour Mayor to address those issue ? I be do everything I can to work with the Labour Mayor , but he be subject to the same national cut in police number that we have see elsewhere . we all have problem with police resource . as a candidate and again since my election to Parliament , I have be out with bobby on the beat to see the issue that they face at first hand , as part of the Hertfordshire police ride - along scheme . after see they in action , I commend our police . I do not exaggerate when I say that they be hero and heroine in our community . thank to the local police in Hertfordshire , we have see some progress in tackle the plight of antisocial behaviour . I thank they again for their service . operation Clear hold Build in Grovehill and Operation Hotspot in the town centre have bring significant uplift in patrol and prevention in both area . PC Beresford and Sergeant Divney from the neighbourhood team have lead the charge against antisocial behaviour from the front . they and their colleague be an asset to their force . I also pay tribute to Hemel ' s Chief Inspector Dave Skarratts . he have be exemplary in his role , and today happen to be his last day . I wish he well in his new role with Bedfordshire police . when tackle antisocial behaviour , the police be key , but they need tool and the resource to do their job . while many of we flee from an incident , they rush towards it ; I ensure , in my conversation with the Police Federation , that they do so safe in the knowledge that they have the support they need and deserve . I have carry out an audit of the 55 case that resident have report to I so far . I have analyse they for theme , and one keep emerge . Police be just one part of the jigsaw when it come to tackle antisocial behaviour . there be a role to be play by local authority and housing association . in many instance , upstande resident have gather the information and evidence thoroughly , at their own risk and expense , and submit it to the council or their housing association . however , in some case they have see no action . in some instance , the council have refuse to re - add they to the housing list because they be adequately house , yet it have not act against the troublemaker nearby . in other , communication between police and council team have be not consistent enough or , in some case , completely absent . I have have report of housing association simply not reply to their resident . all member of this House have a responsibility to do their bit to tackle this issue . do my hon . friend agree that it be incumbent not just on we as Members of Parliament but on all constituent to work together to ensure that our young people grow up have positive role model around they in a community setting , so that they do not fall into a life of antisocial behaviour and they can see a way to get on in life ? I thank my hon . friend for his point . I myself benefit from Hertfordshire youth service as a Member of the UK Youth Parliament , which be sadly something that have have to be pull back by Hertfordshire county council because of cut to youth service . that be just one example of the way young people can be offer a chance to build their confidence and skill , and be partly why I be able to speak to hon . member today . mp have a duty to their constituent , the police and the many hard - work council officer who deal with antisocial behaviour , which be why I have make it a key priority . this week , I be lucky to have the opportunity to meet with the Minister for Policing , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North and Cottingham ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , where I raise Hosking Court , Livingstone Walk , Swallowfields and other hotspot across our area . I have also push for Hemel Hempstead to be consider as part of the pilot for the new respect order , which will give police new power to crack down on yobs and thug with zero tolerance and with 100 % focus on victim . I have be out with police for ride along , the purpose of which be to see at first hand what our officer be see and understand far the tool they need to do their job . I have have regular meeting with the chief inspector to understand the whole picture and raise resident ’ concern . I have also meet the Police Federation rep , who be well place to tell I about the strategic issue face by officer . I will continue to do all that and more to support those on the frontline face antisocial behaviour . I have speak today of the harrowing account of some of my constituent . I have set out why we be in this mess — because of 14 year of dereliction of duty by the previous Conservative Administration . now , I want to talk about the way in which Labour be work to fix the problem we have inherit . I very much welcome the new respect order , which will give police and local council the power they need to ban persistent offender , and I hope my patch will be pick to join the scheme when it be launch . I also welcome the action on boy racer , with Labour give police strong power to seize vehicle involve in antisocial behaviour . the forthcoming policing and crime Bill , which will partially replace exist civil injunction power for adult , will hit nuisance off - road bike hard — another issue affect my resident . I be particularly pleased to see enhanced power to complement the Government ' s commitment to restore neighbourhood police in England and Wales . for too long , people in Hemel have be let down . the new Government be show leadership and , as the new MP for Hemel Hempstead , I pledge today to do all I can to ensure that these national change be feel locally . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Hemel Hempstead ( David Taylor ) on secure this important debate and on the work he be do in his constituency . he have very clearly set out the impact of antisocial behaviour in the case and story he have narrate . he have also set out how , when antisocial behaviour be not deal with , it can be an attraction for other type of crime , create fear in our community . the story of how child can pick that up be also well highlight . he go on to highlight the Conservatives ' record over the past 14 year and the impact it have have on our neighbourhood police . I be respond in today ' s debate on behalf of my colleague , the Minister for Policing , Fire and Crime Prevention , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North and Cottingham ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , who I be sure will be willing to pick up far on any issue with our hon . friend . I know he have have a productive conversation with she very recently in which he raise these matter . my hon . Friend rightly refer to the lamentable record of the previous Government on these matter . even after the previous Government belatedly seek to deal with and respond to the reduction in the overall number of officer that they preside over , policing have still not return to our street . there be still few police officer in neighbourhood team . the proportion of the public who say they never see an officer on the beat have double , and the number of police community support officer have halve . it be little wonder , then , that the type of crime and conduct that neighbourhood policing use to tackle have soar , as my hon . friend the Member for Hemel Hempstead highlight . whether it happen in Hemel Hempstead , Hertfordshire or anywhere else , antisocial behaviour be a blight on people and place . as mps across the House will have see in their constituency , it affect community in different way and come in different form , but fundamentally this be about respect — respect for our law and our expectation as a society , and respect for our fellow citizen . those who lack that basic respect and behave antisocially have to be make to face the consequence of their action . we need to send a message that we will not stand by while decent , law - abide people suffer as a result of the selfishness of other . to deliver the change that the country need , we need to restore a sense of local pride , and give people the confidence that they be safe and secure , whether they be at home , in their neighbourhood or in public place . that be why the Government ' s plan for change include our safe street mission , and it be why we have make strong action to tackle antisocial behaviour a central part of that mission , with a particular emphasis on improve the police response alongside tough power to tackle perpetrator . my hon . friend lay out some of the specific problem that his constituent have encounter . he will know that I can not comment on particular case , but I think it will be helpful for I to share more about the action we be take more widely . the Government have commit to five core mission , which seek to address some of the fundamental challenge that society be face over the next 10 year . the safe street mission will halve violence against woman and girl , halve knife crime , and restore confidence in police and the criminal justice system . it be focus on address harm and confidence in parallel , by take a whole - system approach . these be long - term aim , but the Government be already take decisive first step towards their delivery , include deliver thousand more neighbourhood policing role and take step to tackle antisocial behaviour through new penalty for offender . these ambitious aim will require a dedicated coalition of Government , public service , the private sector , charity , and the public themselves , to be successful . neighbourhood police officer be at the forefront of the fight against antisocial behaviour . however , neighbourhood policing have decline to such an extent in the last decade that many of the bond of trust and respect between the police and local community have be lose . we be go to bring back neighbourhood police and ensure that thousand of additional officer be out patrolling town and community as part of our mission to make street safe . neighbourhood policing sit at the heart of the british policing model , and it be a critical building block in help community feel safe . we be determined to restore confidence in police to record level and restore the vital connection between the police and the community they serve . that be why we be also work with police to implement a new neighbourhood policing guarantee , restore patrol to town centre , recruit thousand more personnel and ensure that every community have a name officer to turn to . we recognise that no single agency can reduce antisocial behaviour alone , and that do so require that important partnership . for our part , the Government will ensure that the police , local authority and other agency have the power they need to respond to antisocial behaviour . the power in the Anti - social Behaviour , Crime and Policing Act 2014 do not go far enough . we will put that right by introduce the respect order . under the new measure , persistent adult perpetrator of antisocial behaviour will face tough restriction , include ban on enter area where they have behave antisocially , such as town centre or other public place . anyone find breach a respect order , which my hon . friend the Member for Hemel Hempstead refer to , will face be arrest and could end up behind bar . we will pilot these measure initially , to ensure that they be as effective as possible , before roll they out across England and Wales . these change be long overdue . my hon . friend mention the harm that drug can do to community . tackle illegal drug be key to deliver the Government ' s mission . we know from the crime survey for England and Wales that people use or deal drug be commonly among the top three antisocial behaviour issue for people in their area . the police have a critical role to play in crack down on drug misuse and antisocial behaviour . we be work with the police to support and increase voluntary referral into treatment . divert those who use illegal drug into intervention such as drug treatment service be key to reduce drug misuse , drug - relate crime and reoffende . we support the use of drug testing on arrest and out - of - court resolution to ensure that individual who commit drug and related offence be give the opportunity to change their behaviour by divert they to meaningful and appropriate intervention . the hon . member for South West Hertfordshire ( Mr Mohindra ) ask what be different since the Labour Government come into power . county line be the most violent model of drug supply and a harmful form of child criminal exploitation . gang exploit child and vulnerable adult to move and store drug and money , often use coercion , intimidation , violence and weapon . since July 2024 , police activity through the county line programme have result in over 400 county line be close and hundred of arrest . alongside that , the police have identify and refer over 800 child and vulnerable people for safeguarding and support , while over 200 young people have be support by our specialist victim support service provide by Catch22 . we will continue to provide dedicated support for child and young people to escape county line and child exploitation . that go hand in hand with our manifesto commitment to roll out further support through the young future prevention partnership , identify at - risk child and young people and make well use of the exist youth service provision . the hon . member for Harpenden and Berkhamsted ( Victoria Collins ) raise the important issue of retail crime . as the Home Secretary set out in her speech to the Labour party conference , the Government will introduce a new offence of assault a retail worker to protect hard - work and dedicated staff . that be long overdue . we will also end the effective immunity for shop theft of good under £ 200 . shop theft of any amount be illegal , and by repeal the relevant legislation we will ensure that everyone know that . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Hemel Hempstead and all member who have contribute to this important debate . antisocial behaviour be clearly an issue of substantial concern in his constituency , as it be all over the country . we have to grip it and , through our safe street mission , that be precisely what the Government intend to do . question put and agree to . House adjourn .