Speaker ' s Statement as the session draw to a close , I would like to express my personal thank to Sir Roger Gale for his stalwart service as an additional Deputy Speaker . on behalf of the whole House , and in particular the other Deputy Speakers , I want to express our profound gratitude to Sir Roger for his unflappable demeanour in the Chair , his wise procedural counsel behind the scene and , most of all , his warm friendship . as we go into the election , today will be his last day . I also wish to say a few word of appreciation for Liam Laurence Smyth , who be step aside from his role as Clerk of Legislation this week and move to a part - time role in the Chamber Business Team . Colin Lee , most recently the manage director of the Select Committee Team , will become Clerk of Legislation from 1 June . Liam have be a House of Commons Clerk for over 40 year . his extensive procedural and Committee experience include a period as Clerk of the Journals . most recently , he have oversee the work of the Public Bill Office , during challenging and complex time , and he have work tirelessly to ensure that all member have access to high - quality and timely advice on legislation . Liam be skilful at share his knowledge , both with colleague here and overseas . I want to thank he personally for the advice that he have give I as Speaker over the year , and I be delighted to say that he will continue to sit regularly at the Clerk ' s table . he be an institution . hear , hear . oral Answers to Questions Culture , Media and Sport the Secretary of State be ask — Local Journalism what step her Department be take to support local journalism . if she will make an assessment of the effectiveness of Government support for local medium . Mr Speaker , 24 hour be a long time in politic . as this be the last session of oral question before we hand over to the people we serve and await their decision , I want to thank the whole team at the Department for Culture , Media and Sport , and everyone who support our ministerial team . let I also wish luck to everyone whose life will be change . that include member , of course , but importantly it also include the staff who support they and the resident they serve . have look at Sir David Amess ' s plaque during prayer , I also wish everyone a very safe campaign . we be commit to support local medium as a vital pillar of our local democracy . our Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill will , among many other measure , help to rebalance the relationship between local publisher and online platform . in addition , the Media Bill , which I hope will be pass , include measure to help radio to provide high - quality local journalism . we have also support local press through tax relief and innovation funding . the Slough Observer , the Slough Express , BBC Radio Berkshire , Asian Star Radio and other such local medium outlet be the glue that bind and build our Slough community , hold to account local councillor , mp and official , and place a local focus on national issue . however , the Tories have neglect local news . in 2019 the Cairncross review highlight the serious challenge face local journalism , but to date the Government have take no significant action . their lack of support , couple with low wage and job insecurity , be force talented journalist out of local news . what step have minister take to ensure that job in local journalism be viable ? since we be do some name check , let I pay tribute to the Havering Daily , Time FM and the Romford Recorder . I think the hon . Gentleman must have miss the Digital Markets Act 2022 and the key recommendation of the Cairncross review , which identify the lack of balance in the relationship between publisher and dominant platform . we bring that recommendation to the House and it be pass . that be our main effort to protect local journalism , but of course it be not our only effort . we also provide business tax relief for local journalism office , we support the BBC ' s local democracy report scheme , we have protect public notice income , we be look at how we use Government advertising spend , and we be speak to the team about what else we can do . this seem to be an appropriate moment to acknowledge that in Orkney and Shetland we be bless with some very good - quality local medium : the Orcadian , the Shetland Times , Shetland News , SIBC , BBC Radio Orkney and BBC Radio Shetland — if I have forget anyone , I will doubtless suffer for it in the week to come . for community such as ours , a strong local medium presence be an important bulwark against the relentless centralisation of control , power and government in Edinburgh , which be why we need to protect our medium . do the Minister agree that what we really need be a coherent strategy for all aspect of local medium , include advertising , to ensure that local medium outlet remain strong ? I certainly agree , and we have be put forward that strategy , but it be a very dynamic market . we be now see challenge to local reporting from artificial intelligence , and we be consider how we can protect some of these publication , because we agree that they be such an important part of our local democracy . if any other member want to bob on this question and name - check their local medium , I shall be happy to pay fulsome tribute to their journalist . the Minister must have guess that a mention of the Torbay Weekly , which be launch four year ago under its editor Jim Parker , would be come in this supplementary question . on a more serious note , one of the worrying trend we have see be the way that national corporation will buy a historic local title , turn it into a weekly and run into the ground . even when such corporation close down a newspaper , they refuse to release the title so that it can perhaps be use by a local group that be try to put together a multimedia platform to continue local accountability . what step could the Government take to resolve that ? there be surely no great publication in my hon . friend ' s constituency than the Torbay Weekly . I should also say that this House have make it clear just how strongly it feel about BBC local radio service in the course of this Parliament , and I hope to see they protect in the next Parliament . he be absolutely right about the challenge of publication be buy up . we want to support some of the microsite , and we be look at how we can use Government advertising spend to try to help support they . in the spirit of one - upmanship , I would just like to announce that Mr Speaker do not read the Financial Times or listen to Radio 4 . no , he read the Bolton News and listen to Bolton FM . we be very disappointed at the weekend , because we lose to Oxford United . I speak to Keith Harris from Bolton FM this morning , and he want assurance that the Government will do all they can to ensure that local radio be an essential tool for democracy , that it get the legal support it need , and that Government , both locally and nationally , can do more to support local platform . on a point of clarification , I read the Chorley Guardian and the Lancashire Evening Post . I would definitely still be listen , as Peter Kay would say , to Chorley FM — come all over ! the Bolton News , Bolton FM and the Chorley Guardian — we could not live without they . my hon . friend be absolutely right about the importance of local radio . as Media Minister , I fight hard to make sure that we include provision for local radio in the Media Bill , and I very much hope that it will be pass in the wash - up . horserace what step her Department be take to support the horseracing industry . give that my constituency of Pudsey will no long exist after the election , this may be my final chance to thank all my constituent for the support that they have give I over the year . I pay particular tribute to my parliamentary and constituency team , who have help I enormously over the past 14 year . it have be the privilege and honour of my life , and I be extremely grateful for it . in answer to the question , the Government very much support horseracing , which be the second large spectator sport and a major economic contributor , and not just to the rural economy but to the economy more widely . we have be work extensively with industry to maintain its status as a world - renowne sport . I , too , rise to make my last contribution in this House . may I thank you , Mr Speaker , and all the staff of the House , who have help I enormously over many year ? I have answer thousand of question from the Dispatch Box , and ask hundred from the Back Benches . I pay tribute to my right hon . friend , who have be an exemplary Minister and representative of Pudsey . it be perhaps fitting that my final question be about horserace , which be at the heart of the West Suffolk constituency and , of course , Newmarket . it require significant support in these difficult time . I know that the Minister and the Secretary of State have be work incredibly hard to try to settle the late levy negotiation . can he assure I that he will do everything he possibly can to use the last few day in which this Parliament be sit to get that deal over the line ? we now want certainty to be able to take this great sport from strength to strength . I think that be a valedictory speech . my right hon . friend have certainly be an advocate of and a hard campaigner for horseracing , and not just in his constituency but for the wide sport . significant progress have be make on increase levy contribution on a voluntary basis , and a great deal of thank must go to the British Horseracing Authority , the Betting and Gaming Council , and DCMS official for all their effort and engagement throughout this process . with an offer on the table , we urge both side to agree on the term of the deal , which will see increase investment in the sport , allow it to grow and secure its sustainability . we will do everything we can to ensure that be agree . I thank the Minister for that answer . the last autumn , winter and spring have see a deluge of rain like we have never see — many of we be either go to buy a boat or build one . what assessment have be make of the impact of the past 12 month of increase rainfall and flooding on the horseracing industry ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important point . I know that colleague in Sport England and the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs have be look at this issue , particularly as it have affect not just horserace but other pitch , such as for rugby , football and so on . I have some further detail on the conclusion of that , which I would be happy to write to the hon . Gentleman about . Youth Investment Fund what assessment she have make of the impact of the youth investment fund on opportunity for young people . as this Parliament come to an end , I too would like to begin by thank you , Mr Speaker , for everything you have do and for the support you have give I as a Minister over the past six year . I would like to thank DCMS and my official for all the work they have do , the special adviser , who have be superb , and my hard - work and effective ministerial team — we work as a team — and I be thankful for my engagement with the shadow Secretary of State . it be really important that we support our young people . that be why we have a programme to build or refurbish up to 300 youth facility , support 45 , 000 young people each year . to date , £ 250 million have be award to 227 organisation to build , renovate and expand youth provision . like other , I would like to thank everyone who have help I over my first Parliament — I hope to come back for another one with a different constituency name . on the substantive question , on Saturday 11 may I go to the Middleton St George scout hall to join the local lord lieutenant and deputy mayor as we open their new scout hall , with more than £ 350 , 000 from the Conservative Government ' s youth investment fund . could the Secretary of State just remind we how important these community group be — the scout , the brass band , and all of the different thing that we see around our community — and maybe just remind we of the breadth and scope of support that this Conservative Government have give to such organisation ? I thank my hon . friend , who be a huge campaigner for his area . we have give 300 , 000 opportunity to young people through our national youth guarantee . that be not just about the youth club that I have mention ; we have also give 12 , 000 disadvantaged young people an opportunity to have adventure away from home ; we have make 30 , 000 place for the Duke of Edinburgh award scheme ; and we have create 250 new uniformed youth group . it be Labour Government funding that enable I , a working - class girl from Pontypridd , to access specialist music lesson , to fall in love with opera and to take part in a specialist workshop with Welsh National Opera . we all know what be sadly happen with the WNO , so what step be the Secretary of State take to safeguard our world - class WNO and the job and opportunity it provide for young people and everyone across Wales and the south - west ? I be really delighted to have an opportunity to answer this question about funding in Wales , because , notwithstanding the fact that art be devolve to Wales , this Government have give £ 4 million through the Arts Council to Welsh National Opera — the same amount that the Welsh Government have give . furthermore , the Arts Council have give transition funding . in fact , Welsh National Opera have be in the top 10 % of organisation that have be fund . my position be that the Labour Government in Wales have reduce their funding to the Arts Council of Wales by 10 % , and have be call out by those in Wales , so I be very grateful to the hon . member for give I the opportunity to point that out . I call the shadow Secretary of State . can the Secretary of State , or anyone else on the Tory Benches , honestly tell the young people in Bristol and across the UK that they be well off , after 14 year of conservative failure on youth service , failure on education and failure on skill development , than they would be under a government lead by Keir Starmer and a change Labour party ? absolutely . this Government have support young people through education in outstanding school — 80 % of young people get an outstanding education . we be up in the PISA — programme for international student assessment — table for education . as I say , 300 , 000 young people have be give opportunity in the creative industry , which the hon . member fail to mention . employment be up in the creative industry , and we have double the number of people employ and double the revenue . Labour vote against our creative industry tax relief every single time . woman and girl in Sport what step she be take to support the participation of woman and girl in sport . what step she be take to support the participation of woman and girl in sport . we have a number of individual initiative to support the participation of woman and girl in sport . the national physical activity taskforce be work across Government to ensure that woman and girl get more active . we have establish the Board of Women ' s Sport to identify challenge and opportunity across woman ' s sport , and we be fully support Karen Carney ' s recommendation to lift standard and deliver sustainable growth for woman ' s football . as you know , Mr Speaker , football be a great sport in which both boy and girl can participate . Walsall Football Club Foundation do fantastic work to encourage and enthuse school in my constituency to participate through initiative such as let girl play . do my right hon . and learn Friend agree that this be exactly what we need to do to encourage more grassroots sport for girl ? will she also join I in congratulate the boy team at Cooper and Jordan School on recently win the Utilita kid cup final at Wembley ? I be delighted to congratulate the boy team , and to commend all the work do in local school to encourage girl to get more involve in sport . that be why the Government be commit to equal access to physical education and sport in school , so that girl be able to participate in whatever sport they like . if they want to play cricket , football or rugby , they should be entitle to do so . and it be why the Department for Education have publish guidance on how to deliver a minimum of two hour a week of quality PE , alongside over £ 600 million of funding for primary PE and sport through the sport premium . there be no great exemplar of encourage woman and girl into sport than the motorsport sector . from Susie Wolff ' s F1 academy and Discover your Drive to Motorsport UK ' s girl on Track scheme , the sector be discover british talent like Abbi Pulling , who win both race in Miami in the F1 academy and then , the very next weekend , win the british f4 race here in the UK . and that be before I get on to the engineering and design role . do my right hon . and learn Friend agree that motorsport show the way for other sport to follow ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend on the huge value of motorsport . I congratulate motorsport on its girl on Track scheme , which be get more girl and woman into sport . I highlight and re - emphasise his point that motorsport be not just about the sport itself ; it be a huge powerhouse for research and development that build and support innovation . I draw attention to my recent appointment to the board of Llanelli Scarlets . I pay tribute to both Front Bench team for the cross - party work in this House , because woman ' s and girl ' sport be really important . will the Secretary of State join I in celebrate the activity of girl and woman in sport ? whoever be in government next , we will continue to work across party to ensure that the right of all woman and girl be uphold in sport . I could not agree more . we do quite a lot of important cross - party work in this House . one of the thing I have be most proud to be involve with in this role be support the woman ' s football team and woman in sport . it be phenomenal to go to Australia to see the woman ' s team almost win the World cup , and it have be phenomenal to see the work that the Lionesses and former Lionesses have do to spotlight that . we be at a very exciting point for woman ' s football , and the Government be continue to support it in so many different way . the Secretary of State talk a good talk , but on her watch the gender activity gap be wide than ever : 22 % few girl than boy take part in team sport . do she agree that it be only under Labour , the party of equality , that woman and girl in Bristol and beyond will finally have equal access to sport ? I absolutely disagree with that statement , of course , because for a number of year now the Conservative Government have be support woman and girl to get into sport , with a significant campaign to get more woman and girl into sport , and the cross - departmental work with the Department for Education to ensure that young girl have equal access to sport in school . in fact , year on year , we have see those number on participation in sport improve , and we also set up the national physical activity taskforce with the specific aim of get 1 million more woman involve in activity . Heritage building what step her Department be take to protect and repurpose heritage building . I thank the hon . member for her question . one of my colleague have just say to I that she be step down , so I would like to pay tribute to she for the representation she have give to the good people of Halifax . the Department for Culture , Media and Sport be responsible for list building of special architectural or historic interest , give they enhance protection . the Department and its arm ' s length body also provide significant financial support for heritage building , include through Historic England ' s £ 95 million high street heritage action zone programme . I be grateful to the Minister for that answer and thank she for her kind word . I pay tribute to Halifax Civic Trust , which do so much great work in my constituency and have some amazing heritage building , not least the magnificent Piece Hall . however , we have other that developer have buy and sit on , refuse to invest in they , engage or release they to other interested party . what else might we be able to do to force they to engage and release those building if they be not go to invest ? I speak to my noble Friend the heritage Minister in preparation for this question and in do so get to know a bit more about Piece Hall , a fantastic heritage site in the hon . member ' s constituency . I commend the work of all local activist to protect that building and bring it into public use . it be a wonderful example of an 18th century northern cloth hall , which now have a modern purpose . we be very grateful for the work that have go into it . she may be aware that we also have the cultural development fund , which have allow community across the country to retain important public building with heritage value , repurpose they and breathe life into the community that most need they . on the subject of heritage building , may I add my own thank to yours , Mr Speaker , to the Clerk of Legislation , Liam Laurence Smyth , who really be an institution in this place ? he be for many year a close colleague of my late father - in - law , Stephen Panton , who serve this House as a Clerk for 33 year . Mr Laurence Smyth have do a great deal for many of we in this House and have be personally enormously helpful to I . while I be still in order , Mr Speaker , and on the subject of heritage building , do the Minister agree that for many people in South Norfolk the Diss Express feel like a heritage building and should be protect and celebrate accordingly ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight the Diss Express , which I presume be a heritage railway — it be a local newspaper . it be a local newspaper — I do apologise . resign ! perhaps it be not too risky to say that I would consider do so , but I appreciate my hon . friend highlight that wonderful organisation in his constituency . Swimming Pools and leisure Facilities what assessment she have make of the impact of the swimming pool support fund on local pool and leisure facility . what assessment she have make of the impact of the swimming pool support fund on local pool and leisure facility . respond to concern that we hear from the sector , in 2023 - 24 , the Government have award more than £ 60 million to address cost pressure face public swimming pool and improve energy efficiency in the long term . I put on record my thank to the Minister ' s Department for the considerable sum of funding — £ 382 , 000 — that have be make available to redditch to level up swimming pool and leisure facility in my constituency . that come on the back of £ 16 . 5 million of town deal funding , as well as £ 5 million of culture funding . do she agree that significant representation have result in a meaningful commitment to level up Redditch within this Parliament ? do she agree that mental health and wellbeing be a key part of that ? my sex have obviously change , but I certainly agree with my hon . friend . I pay tribute to she for the enormous campaigning she have do on behalf of her constituent in Redditch in secure that significant investment . I agree that get people active be vital to improve their physical and mental health . that be exactly why we be invest this historic amount of money in grassroots facility and have publish the new " get active " strategy , which set out our ambition to get 3 . 5 million more people active by 2030 . Aqua Vale swimming and fitness centre in Aylesbury have a prime location in the heart of town , but I be sorry to say it be start to show its age . the announcement of £ 240 , 000 from this Conservative Government to improve the facility there be superb news . will my right hon . friend highlight to Aylesbury resident the benefit that this investment will now bring to my constituent ? I congratulate my hon . friend on campaign hard on behalf of his constituency and secure that £ 240 , 000 for a leisure centre that be feel its age — I think I know how it feel . we know how important pool be for our community , which be why we be provide this funding . at Aqua Vale , the installation of solar panel will improve energy efficiency and contribute to significant saving , ensure that leisure centre for the people of Aylesbury to stay fit and healthy . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . I reiterate my thank to the Minister for Media , Tourism and Creative Industries , my hon . friend the Member for Hornchurch and Upminster ( Julia Lopez ) , the Under - Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , my right hon . friend the Member for Pudsey ( Stuart Andrew ) and Lord Parkinson for the significant support they have give I throughout my time as Secretary of State . DCMS be a team and without their phenomenal work we would not have be able to achieve what we have over the past 18 month or so , so I just want to say thank you to they . over the past 14 year , the conservative party in government have help transform the creative industry . there have be 1 million new job since 2010 and the economic value of the creative industry have double , to over £ 124 billion in 2022 , power by investment and tax break that Opposition Members vote against every single time . unlike the Labour party , we have set out a plan to go far , to grow the creative industry by an additional £ 50 billion and add another million extra job by 2030 . that be the choice voter will face in July : a clear conservative plan for growth or back to square one with Labour . I thank the Secretary of State for all her work with my team in Redditch . can she confirm that , despite the tight timeline , we can ensure that the £ 5 million in funding , which be hugely value , be able to be make use of by as many local group as possible before we break for the general election ? my hon . friend be a huge campaigner . she be award £ 5 million at the spring Budget to support the development of cultural project in her area . she will know that it be a matter for each council to identify the most suitable project to be fund in their area . I be sure she will work very closely with they to ensure that funding will be distribute appropriately . I call the shadow Minister . I hope that it be in order for I to thank all the ministerial team for when they have be absolutely courteous to we and when we have be able to work together on matter . I particularly pay tribute to the Under - Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Pudsey ( Stuart Andrew ) , who be not only a gent , but a champ . however , we have two music venue close every week ; british artist prevent from tour in Europe ; the UK art market fall from second to third in the world ; a - level music student down by 45 % ; museum and gallery struggle with the cost of living ; ballerinas tell to retrain ; theatre and opera touring slash ; and an apprenticeship levy that do not work for the creative industry . be that all part of the plan ? or , in the word of RuPaul , be it not time for this appalling Government to sashay away ? there be tax relief for every subsector of the creative industry . whether it be film , studio , independent film or grassroots support , we have support the creative industry at every level . we have a plan from the first day of primary school to the last day of work . that be what we be do for our sector . the reputation of Torbay ' s iconic tourism sector have be badly hit by recent event relate to local water supply . what discussion have the Minister have with colleague in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs about ensure that support be provide and pay for by South West Water to compensate for that ? I know that the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Keighley ( Robbie Moore ) , whom I meet early this week , be very engaged in this issue , and our stakeholder in the south - west and Visit England be look into any necessary information that they can give to tourist . they will continue to keep that under review , but I empathise deeply with local business , particularly tourism business , and resident . it be important to say that the majority of those business in Brixham be not affect by this outbreak . it be a wonderful place to visit . it have a fantastic local MP , and I be sure that he will provide everybody who visit the region with a very warm welcome . I call the SNP spokesperson . can I thank our shadow Culture Secretary ? I be proud of the work that he have do and that I have be able to do alongside he on behalf of the SNP and the people of Scotland . Mr Speaker , can I also echo your comment about Liam Laurence Smyth ? the number of time I have go to Liam and say , " I want to get up to some mischief , can you help I ? " I have really appreciate all the advice that he have give I . I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether the Media Bill will be part of wash - up , because a number of organisation , include STV , have contact I this morning ask for it to be . that be certainly what I be press for and I be very grateful to the hon . member for her support to ensure that that happen . with the Olympics happen in Paris in the forthcoming month , what work be the Minister do to ensure that the resident of Uxbridge and South Ruislip , and those across the whole country , get to support GB as passionately as if the game be be hold on our shore ? we be all look forward to the Olympics and good luck to Team GB . UK Sport invest £ 382 million of Exchequer and lottery funding for the Paris Olympics . we also want to ensure , with the change maker programme initiative , that , when our athlete come back from the Paris game , they give back to community such as those of my hon . friend . I call the shadow Minister . the Guardian report that , as a result of the Conservative Government ' s Brexit deal , the cost of tour in the EU be now so high that 74 % few UK band be now tour there . the UK touring scene be all the more valuable for musician and band now , but opportunity to perform here be be lose , as music venue and festival be force to close due to rocket operational cost . do the Secretary of State see just how the Government have fail the music industry ? be it not time for a Labour Government , who will support our excellent musician , our venue and our festival ? I appreciate the hon . member raise the concern of the music industry because we , too , very much want to support it . when I first join the Department , the industry be very vocal about some of the challenge of touring , and we methodically work through those challenge to make sure that some of they be ease . we have also support grassroots venue . however , I often wonder whether , when Labour member raise these point in the Chamber , they do not have an ulterior motive . I be keen to see whether they will put in their own local manifesto their desire to rejoin the European Union . in my constituency , I have many local grassroot football team , include Newton Aycliffe , which have just achieve the high league position in their history , and Ferryhill Town youth , which be look to provide disability access . both of they have be well support by Newton Youth and the local respectively , but do the Minister agree how critical it be that money flow down the football pyramid , and will she congratulate Newton Aycliffe on their achievement and commend the local paper for its backing ? I commend Newton Aycliffe and Ferryhill Town youth football club for their recent success , both off and on the pitch . it be great to hear that my hon . friend have be engage with organisation such as the Football Foundation , because it really help we as mps to support our constituent . I absolutely echo his word . the legacy of 14 year of Conservative Government be a 73 % real term cut in local authority expenditure on youth service since 2010 . will the Secretary of State admit just how profoundly the Tories have fail our young people , and acknowledge that only a Labour Government can restore hope and opportunity for young people across this country ? in addition to the £ 500 million in the national youth guarantee , which be support young people across the country , we be approach youth in a cross - departmental way , whether through the £ 200 million from the Home Office to support young people not to go into a life of crime , the similar amount of funding from the Ministry of Justice to ensure that that funding come through , or the £ 64 billion that we give to local council . we be support young people at every stage of their life . will the Minister for sport join I in congratulate Kettering resident Kyren Wilson on become the new world snooker champion , and in hope that Kyren ' s success will encourage people in Kettering and across the country to take up snooker ? my hon . friend be right to pay tribute to the success of Kyren Wilson . the people of Kettering must be incredibly proud of he , and I hope that he will inspire more people to take up snooker . it be an important sport in this country , and my hon . friend have be an advocate of support it in the many conversation that we have have outside the Chamber . what step will the Government take to ensure robust regulation of the special impartiality rule that apply during the election period ? this be in reference to my substantive question about the enforcement of the broadcasting code , to ensure that multi - party democracy be respect , devolution be not treat as a sideshow , and the people of Scotland get an accurate picture of public policy that apply to they , so that they be not disinformed and disenfranchise . the hon . Member will know that all broadcaster be regulate by Ofcom . I be sure that they will all be aware of the importance of impartiality . cotgrave football club do a fantastic job of provide access to football for the local community , but it be limit by its current facility and need funding from Sport England for a 4 g all - weather pitch . to secure that funding , it must qualify as a level 3 club , with facility for disabled football and a plan to grow woman ' s football . it would love to do that , but it can not do it without a 4 g pitch . can the Secretary of State help we to resolve this chicken - and - egg situation , so that Cotgrave football club can secure the funding that it need and provide access to football for even more people ? my hon . friend have raise that with I in the past , and I have speak to my official . I encourage she to continue to liaise with the Football Foundation to understand what might be possible , so I suggest she pass that on . she be a really successful and staunch campaigner for her local area . I have work with she on a number of campaign , and I have every faith in her success in this particular campaign . I , too , thank Liam Laurence Smyth , who be the first Clerk who work for I when I be Chair of the Education Committee . he become a great friend and mentor , and this House will miss he dreadfully . be there any special money for community that have a rich tradition of music and the art ? Huddersfield , my constituency , have the Huddersfield Choral , brass band , so many centre of excellence , and an international festival of music . could we have special money for town such as mine , which would give a boost to the whole country for the art ? we have special money for area across the country , because every year the Arts Council have £ 444 million to spend . it spend a significant amount of that money in music . the hon . Gentleman do not mention the rugby league result on Sunday . Public Accounts Commission the hon . member for South Norfolk , the Chairman of the Public Accounts Commission be ask — Artificial Intelligence : Government if he will make an assessment of the adequacy of National Audit Office resource to scrutinise the cost of AI in Government . the National Audit Office do have adequate resource to scrutinise the cost of artificial intelligence and , indeed , produce a report in March that find that AI present Government with significant opportunity to transform public service and that the Government have identify that artificial intelligence could deliver substantial productivity gain , potentially worth billion . my hon . friend have identify the report in which I be interested . that report , as he rightly say , note the importance of artificial intelligence in deliver transformational public service , but also note a number of challenge . in the die ember of this Parliament , would he be willing to leave a message for the next Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , urge that an inquiry be carry out into that report , as I believe its finding be of considerable importance ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right that it be an important subject , and the Public Accounts Committee be due to take oral evidence on it on 17 June . I will certainly draw his concern to the attention of the new Chair of the Public Accounts Committee when I know who he or she be . I thank the hon . gentleman for his response . this be a massive subject and will have to be scrutinise greatly in the next term of government . what assessment have be make of the potential negative of AI within the defence industry and Government , and what step will be take to combat they ? I think the short answer be that there be inadequate awareness inside Government — although there be some awareness — that there be potentially very large negative with artificial intelligence . indeed , one of the inventor of artificial intelligence have write a book on precisely that subject . I suspect that it be something the Government will continue to assess . NHS procurement if he will make an assessment of the adequacy of National Audit Office resource to undertake analysis on the efficiency and effectiveness of NHS procurement . in its January report , the National Audit Office establish that the NHS supply chain have great potential to secure further saving by aggregate the NHS ' s spending power , but that so far it have not fulfil that potential . in its January report on the NHS supply chain , the National Audit Office make seven recommendation to improve the efficiency of the NHS ' s £ 8 billion annual procurement programme , include the need to improve price and make ordering as straightforward as possible . the National Audit Office report twice a year on whether department have implement its recommendation , so will it use that mechanism to monitor the progress of the NHS supply chain ? I be sure the Comptroller and Auditor General and his staff at the National Audit Office will want to listen very carefully to what my hon . friend have say , although I must tell he that the inability of the NHS to use its huge spending power more successfully on behalf of taxpayer and patient have be a hardy perennial throughout my entire 23 year in Parliament . while I wish he well in his endeavour , I would advise he not to hold his breath . it be a little - know fact that from 1979 to 1981 , I be a member of the Public Accounts Committee . I really enjoy that experience . this be one of my last question in this House after nearly 45 year here . can we do more to show incoming member of Parliament how powerful a body the Public Accounts Committee be and what an amazing resource it be for Members of Parliament in get inquiry , look at funding and look at the wise spending of Government ? could we have a programme — again , perhaps there could be a note on the desk — to teach new member how important this national treasure be ? have spend 16 year on the Public Accounts Committee , I completely agree with what the hon . Gentleman say . it be , in my view , one of the good place to spend one ' s time as a parliamentarian , check that our constituent ' money as taxpayer be safeguard and well look after by whichever Government of the day happen temporarily to be in office . I commend what he have say to everyone . Church Commissioners the hon . member for South West Bedfordshire , represent the Church Commissioners , be ask — affordable and sustainable housing whether the Church of England be take step to provide affordable and sustainable housing on its land . I can tell my hon . friend that the Church Commissioners be bring forward substantial new amount of housing across England , include affordable home , in accordance with local planning policy in the area concern . where the commissioner be able to , we also seek to go far — for example , through the use of rural exception site to provide a high proportion of affordable housing than the local plan require . I thank my hon . friend for his response , but give that affordable housing be such a concern across North Devon , can the Church do any more to assist ? I know what a great champion my hon . friend be on this issue . unfortunately , the Church Commissioners themselves do not have any land in North Devon that be be consider for housing at the moment , but I will put she in touch with the diocese of Exeter to see whether it have opportunity in its own land portfolio . as I say , I know what a big issue this be in North Devon , and how important it be for my hon . friend , who have be work on it passionately , so we will do what we can to help . Diocesan Support : Interregnums what recent assessment the Church of England have make of the adequacy of the support offer by diocese to a parish in an interregnum . during an interregnum , a diocese will usually arrange for clergy in neighbouring parish and across the local deanery to take service and to be available to support the church warden and the parochial church council . it be important that those local volunteer be well support during an interregnum , when they lack the visible and present leadership of a parish priest . my hon . friend will know that the combined parish of St Paul ' s and Christ Church serve a large part of Paignton but be currently in interregnum . as he outline , during interregnum , lie minister and church warden have to step forward . what extra support do the Church make available to they when they do so ? it be typical of my hon . friend to take this level of interest in his clergy and church , as I know he do regularly . I can tell he that the diocese of Exeter have produce a guide to help church warden and the parochial church council , and a duty of pastoral care be clearly owe to all those who keep the church go in the absence of a minister . the good help that Christ Church and St Paul ' s , Paignton can receive be for that vacancy to be really well advertise . have do a bit of research on that church , I can see that the new incumbent would inherit a dynamic worshipping congregation on the beautiful english riviera — I be pleased to be able to provide some free advertising for that tremendous opportunity . I hope that parish priest look for an exciting new opportunity will be flock to Christ Church and St Paul ' s , Paignton to take up that one . Educational Attainment : Church Schools what recent assessment the Church of England have make of the impact of Church school on the level of educational attainment in ( a ) Cleethorpes constituency and ( b ) England . the Church of England educate more than 1 million child in its 4 , 700 school in England . my hon . friend must be particularly proud of the fact that all Church of England school in his constituency be currently rate " good " by Ofsted . I recently visit three of the Church school in my Cleethorpes constituency , and I be impress by how they be influence by their connection with the Church . the website of New Holland Church of England and Methodist Primary School say : " as a church school , New Holland … seek to live out the church ' s philosophy of ' value all God ' s child ' pay particular attention to our Christian Vision , ' look forward with hope . flourish . do all the good we can ' " and stay true to " our core christian value " . do my hon . friend agree that those word exemplify the value of Church school and what they can bring to their local community ? the fact that those three Church school be rate " good " , include New Holland primary , which my hon . friend have visit , show that they provide not just excellent teaching , which be really appreciate by parent — such school be generally oversubscribed — but a caring and nurture environment , as he rightly say . that be well encapsulate by the value of New Holland primary school , which he read out just now . I be grateful to he for highlight their excellent record , and I think that we all pass on our thank to those school . Parish church : fund what step the Church of England be take to provide funding to parish church . Parish ministry be at the heart of all that the Church of England do . between 2023 and 2025 , the Church Commissioners be distribute £ 1 . 2 billion to support our mission and ministry . that be a 30 % increase on the previous three - year period , and the lion ' s share of that funding go to diocese to strengthen and grow local ministry in parish and worship community . in addition , the commissioner wish to maintain that level of funding over the next six year , which would mean £ 3 . 6 billion be distribute between 2023 and 2031 . I be grateful for that very encouraging information , and I pay tribute to my hon . friend for the work he have do during this Parliament on behalf of the Church Commissioners . he have be unfailingly assiduous and courteous — almost holy — in the conduct of his work on behalf of the Church . do my hon . friend share my concern about the forced amalgamation of parish that many diocese across the country be undertake ? vibrant and viable local church in diocese such as Liverpool be be offer the invidious choice of either surrender their autonomy to become part of new mega - parish or give up access to resource from the centre — resource that they themselves contribute to the centre . as my hon . friend have say and imply , surely the whole value of the Church of England be in the local parish system , not in its regional bureaucracy . can he tell the House how the Church of England will continue to ensure the integrity of our parish system ? I be grateful to my hon . friend . he be right to highlight to the House that there be pressure in some area , and he be also right to point out that the parish network across the whole of England — across every one of our constituency in England — be extremely precious . we must do everything we can to preserve it , and I make that point at every opportunity . I know that many member of Parliament , include my hon . friend , also make that point regularly , and that message have be hear at the top of the Church , which be why we be put the vast majority of our funding back down into parish . of course , we be also encourage parish to do what they can to raise money at the local level , but my hon . friend ' s point be absolutely right . I call George Galloway — not here . House of Commons Commission the hon . member for Broxbourne , represent the House of Commons Commission , be ask — Digital Tools : member what recent progress the Commission have make on use digital tool to support the work of hon . member . first , may I just say to Sir Charles that I be sorry you be step down ? I thank you for all you have do . you have be a wonderful servant of this House , and I thank you for everything , include your service on the Commission . thank you for that , Mr Speaker . it have be a great privilege to serve with you on the Commission , and it have be such an honour to be in this amazing institution and to serve my country in the way I have , with the wonderful people here . gosh , I wasn ' t go to get sentimental . since my last answer on this issue in February 2024 , the Parliamentary Digital Service have be assess Microsoft ' s generative AI toolset , Copilot , which include artificial intelligence for mailbox . that tool will aid member and staff in their management of day - to - day administrative activity across Microsoft 365 application . pds be conduct further necessary technical work , and it be expect that a trial of the new capability will start with member before the end of the year . I be not sure if it be Nokia compatible , but if it be , I hope it can be put on my Nokia . Mr Speaker , I echo your tribute to the hon . member for Broxbourne ( Sir Charles Walker ) , and thank he for his service on the House of Commons Commission and his engagement with I on this subject on many occasion . during the dark day of covid , Mr Speaker , when many do not believe that a digital Parliament be possible and some do not want the continue scrutiny , you and I , and the House official and the Digital Service , work together to move Parliament online over the course of just one recess . that be an immense achievement , and I pay tribute to you and to the Digital Service for that . do the hon . member for Broxbourne agree that while Labour will be campaign for the change that Britain so desperately need , the Digital Service will be work to ensure that AI , open source , cloud and all the other digital innovation be at the disposal of member of the new Parliament to support they in their work ? pds and the security service be work really hard to make sure that the House get it right . there be so much opportunity present by AI , but give the sensitive and important position that we hold and that future colleague will hold , we have to make sure that we get it right so that we be advantage our constituent , not our enemy . Church Commissioners the hon . member for South West Bedfordshire , represent the Church Commissioners , be ask — Academy Schools what step the Church of England be take to increase the number of academy school it sponsor . the Church of England be already the big provider of academy in England , with 1 , 770 academy and 280 multi - academy trust . each diocese across England will have its own academisation plan . these school include pupil of all faith and none , and they be commit to serve the whole community . there be a grow need for special education , particularly in the New Forest . what can the Church do to assist in my constituency ? I be very grateful to my right hon . friend , who have have a long - stand interest in these and other Church matter . he be right in what he say because , with two third of special school at or over capacity , the recent decision to allow faith education provider to run special school will enable the Church of England to alleviate some of those pressure and give family more choice and opportunity in the New Forest as well as across the whole of England . I would say that our strong ethos of community care make our school well suit to provide a nurture environment for all child with special educational need . support for People in Gaza what step the Church of England be take to provide support for people in Gaza . the Church of England call for the immediate release of the hostage in Gaza and an end to the fighting , which have cause the loss of so many life and cause so much suffering to the Palestinians . the diocese of Jerusalem and the worldwide anglican communion continue to support financially the al - Ahli Anglican Hospital in Gaza City , which , as I know from the diocese of Jerusalem synod last week , be still operate with the wonderful medic in it and be still provide care . I thank the hon . member for his answer . of course , while Parliament be not sit we know that the horrendous situation in Gaza will continue , and it be really important that we put the focus on those institution that can make intervention over the next few week . I therefore ask he : how be the Church of England use its soft power and leverage to bring peace and justice to the region , particularly to the people of Gaza ? I thank the hon . Lady for her very pertinent and important question . she will know that the Archbishop of Canterbury himself go out to the Holy Land just after 7 October . I can tell she that the Bishop of Chelmsford be there very recently and the Bishop of Suffolk be also a frequent visitor . the worldwide anglican communion , as well as the Church of England , will absolutely continue to play its part in bring peace and justice to this terrible conflict , which have go on for far too long . my hon . friend will know that the diocese of Gloucester have be very supportive of those in need — whether asylum seeker , refugee or , indeed , the homeless and rough sleeper in our city of Gloucester . will he therefore join I in congratulate it on the fact that the planning approval for its first modular housing in Gloucester — with six modular home — should go through Gloucester City Council imminently , and that more will be come soon to help people in need ? I think the question may also be about the help that Gloucester ' s diocese have give to the people of Gaza . I be very grateful to my hon . friend , and he be right that — both in Gaza and Gloucester — there be absolutely the need for significant reconstruction . I know that he have be a long - term advocate of that in Gloucester , and I commend the work he have do with the Bishop of Gloucester . of course , there will also be a massive need for reconstruction in Gaza , which we all want to see . thank you . Electoral Commission Committee the hon . member for Luton South , represent the Speaker ' s Committee on the Electoral Commission , be ask — election : disinformation whether the committee have have recent discussion with the Electoral Commission on the potential impact of disinformation on the integrity of election . the committee have have recent discussion with the Electoral Commission on the matter raise . the commission recognise the risk pose to the integrity of election by disinformation and misinformation , and it be contribute to effort across the public sector , include other regulator and the Government , to guard against negative impact . the legal regime the commission regulate be focus on ensure that political finance be transparent , and that campaigning material include an imprint show voter who have produce the material . it do not have a role in regulate the content of election campaign material , but it encourage all campaigner to undertake their role responsibly and transparently . that be good to hear , but we have hear there will be a lot of attempt disinformation around the US presidential election in the come month , so what assessment have the Electoral Commission actually make of the risk of hold a UK general election at a time when there will be a greatly increase risk of hostile disinformation campaign , with what appear to be grass - root Facebook group on low emission zone recently be expose as have be set up by conservative ' staff member ? the commission ' s role be to ensure the financing of campaign be transparent ; it do not have a role in regulate the content of election campaign material , such as by prevent the use of deepfake . the commission have highlight that if additional regulatory responsibility for campaign material be give to a UK regulator , these power would need careful consideration . regulate the content of campaign material would require a new legal framework ; the commission do not have experience or expertise of such a framework and believe such work would be well manage by other organisation . disabled People on benefit : EHRC Investigation 10 . 35 am ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions if he will make a statement on the Equality and Human Rights Commission investigation into the treatment of disabled people on benefit . it be a pleasure to be call to the Dispatch Box to respond for the Department for Work and Pensions this morning . the Department be absolutely committed to provide service through which every customer , include disabled people and our most vulnerable claimant , can experience fair opportunity and access to our service to ensure they get the support they need . the Department have be in negotiation with the ehrc since 2021 on this matter . it be disappointing that we have not be able to come to a mutually agreeable position . as the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions state yesterday during his Select Committee appearance , our exist legal advice and understanding be that both the ehrc and the DWP be still bind by confidentiality . we be seek further clarity on what we can share , so I will not discuss those negotiation far . while I do not believe an investigation be necessary , we at the Department do of course take the ehrc ' s concern seriously . we welcome the focus now provide in the term of reference . we will work constructively with the commission in its investigation to well understand its concern . I hope the investigation will provide a deep insight into some of the most complex case that the Department deal with . of course , if any improvement be identify by the commission we will , rightly , take step to address they . I thank the Minister for her answer . I have great respect for she , but if she be tell the House that the Government have be in negotiation with the ehrc for three year and this be where we be now , that be ridiculous and absolutely underline what many in this House , include myself , have be say to the Government for more than three year . the Scottish National party have be challenge the Government over their treatment of those with illness or disability , and therefore we welcome this overdue investigation by the ehrc . full transparency and accountability be imperative so that the mistake of the past be never repeat ; we know about that from all the other investigation that have be take place recently . if it do transpire that either the DWP or the Secretary of State , or both , have breach equality law , the strong possible action must be take . it be the least those who have suffer at the hand of this Government deserve . I have speak over the year to many disability organisation and they be appal at how disabled people be treat , as be I . the United Nations Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities rapporteur have conclude that the UK Government have " fail to take all appropriate measure to address grave and systematic violation of the human right of person with disability " . that be a further black mark against this Government . I have say it time and again : the UK Government must change course from their cruel and demonising approach to disabled people and start support they in the way be do in Scotland . the word dignity , fairness and respect mean something to disabled people in Scotland . the scottish social security system be design to treat people with dignity , fairness and respect . when on earth will this Government , or the likely follow Labour Government , start do that in the UK ? it be an absolute and utter disgrace . the propose welfare reform be dangerous and look to slash disabled people ' s income during an ongoing cost of living crisis , when disabled people be already face high living cost . More people be be push into insecure and unsafe work and the Government be undermine the principle of an extra cost benefit for disabled people . now we have this ehrc investigation . how can the Minister possibly defend her Government ' s ongoing assault on disabled right just to cut cost ? I agree with the hon . Lady . we have much we agree about and real mutual respect , and I know her concern come from the heart . I reiterate that we be a compassionate Department , welcome to all , and we be keen to get insight and learning . I have give evidence on that , most recently to the Select Committee , make it clear that we be a learn Department focus on individual . in fact , our trauma - inform approach be testament to that . I recently see that in Hastings , and it be be roll out in South Yorkshire , Plymouth and all our DWP innovation hub to successfully drive a programme of understanding into our core business area , include the child maintenance area and service area . from a meeting with my DWP colleague , I know what a big difference it make . we engage right across the UK with a multi - agency approach . the hon . Lady will be pleased to know that I recently meet the independent reviewer of the personal independence payment and benefit — there be that process in Scotland — for a mutual learning and understand experience . reform that be be bring out be about disabled people ' s voice be fully hear and understand , whether that be through our national disability strategy or our action plan this year . I also recently engage with the Domestic Abuse Commissioner , Nicole Jacobs , who cover England and Wales , and this give I a chance to pay tribute to she . we have be try hard to understand tragic and complex case . our sympathy be always with the family , and we will continue those internal process review . I hope that the Chairman of the Select Committee , the right hon . member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , will reflect on the useful evidence that be give . we have a grow number of visit officer for some of the most vulnerable — we currently have 500 — and we have 200 dedicated prison work coach . I want anybody watch , study or read this urgent question to approach we and talk to we . many people become involved with the DWP at the most challenging time of their life . we be here to help people , whether through our youth hub or our disability work coach . please tell we what be go on . we can link people to the right agency , and we be determined to understand what the commission be think and feel and to work with it . my hon . friend the Minister will be aware of the work that my Select Committee have do around the national disability strategy , but I specifically draw her attention to the word of the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) early this week : nothing about I without I . what reassurance can the Minister give I that disabled people will be fully include in the ongoing consultation on personal independence payment ? what reassurance can she give I that she continue to work with Disability Confident to ensure that disabled people be enable to move into work and support when they be in work ? what reassurance can she give I that the victim of contaminate blood , sodium valproate , primodo , and mesh will not be subject to ongoing assessment year after year to make sure that they continue their entitlement to benefit ? what reassurance can she give I that she agree that inclusion be not wokery , and that include disabled people be crucial to ensure that their right be uphold ? I be look forward to give evidence to my right hon . friend on many of these matter , alongside my hon . friend the Minister for Employment . indeed , there be work to come forward on Disability Confident , Access to Work , the disability employment goal and much more . I point my right hon . friend to action we have take , include just this week . there be the Government - back lilac review on disabled entrepreneur , which be absolutely about listen to disabled people and have they at the heart of the conversation . fantastic engagement on British Sign Language , fully in BSL , have be at the heart of that . there have also be the PIP consultation and the wide reform conversation . we have also bring forward the Buckland review . my right hon . friend be absolutely right about inclusion . it work because when it be embed , it be right for the bottom line of the business , the organisation and the community . it be not a " nice to do " and it be not wake ; it be what we should be do . I call the Opposition Front - Bench spokesperson . this be the first time in history that the Equality and Human Rights Commission have decide to investigate whether a Secretary of State have " commit unlawful act " by discriminate against disabled people as a result of the way that the Government have run the benefit system . accord to a report by the all - party parliamentary group for health in all policy , it may have lead to " the death of vulnerable claimant , by suicide and other cause " . yesterday , appear before the Work and Pensions Committee , the Secretary of State feign surprise at the Equality and Human Rights Commission take that unprecedented step , yet he previously claim that he and his Department be close to secure a legally bind agreement to uphold disabled people ' s right . I wonder what have change . will the Minister recognise the seriousness of her predicament and apologise to disabled people for her Department ' s obvious reluctance to engage meaningfully with the Equality and Human Rights Commission ? why have her Department preside over a benefit system that the commission believe could be unlawfully discriminate against disabled people ? will she take the opportunity to apologise to all those disabled people who have have their life tear apart by her Department ' s potentially illegal administration of the benefit system ? let I first reflect on the Secretary of State ' s appearance at the Select Committee . I reiterate that , as he say yesterday , the investigation of the Department be base on a suspicion that something have occur ; that be not in and of itself conclusive proof . the DWP rightly take its obligation under the Equality Act 2010 , include the public sector equality duty , incredibly seriously , and will continue to co - operate with the commission on its investigation . I hope that help the hon . Lady . we want everyone in the DWP to be able to support customer in an appropriate manner , accord to the individual ' s need . our mental health training and reasonable adjustment guidance help to empower our colleague by give they the skill to support every customer . it have be the great privilege of my life to have be in the most amazing , life - change Department for almost all of the last five year . we be fully commit to listen to our customer and their representative about their need , and to learn from they . of course people will be concern about the ehrc ' s response , and the Department be genuinely disappointed , because we be constantly learn ; work be ongoing to strengthen guidance and training through continuous improvement activity . our colleague be local people who live in their community . they know their community and what people need . whether people be come through the door be from a local special school , have be make redundant , or have a health condition , DWP staff know those people and want to reassure they . we will continue to give they the necessary tool , and have confidence that our Department will respond in the right way to our most vulnerable customer . as I depart this House as a Conservative MP , I thank you , Sir Roger , for your service and mentor over my year here . will the Minister make sure that in the response to the investigation , those work in jobcentre and DWP office across the country be give the support that they need to do their job ? in West Suffolk , they do that job excellently , brilliantly lead by Julia Nix , who frankly deserve an honour . it have be a pleasure to work with those people . when the Minister consider the investigation , will she look not only at physical disability , include engagement with those who support wheelchair use , but hide disability such as neurodivergent condition , to the extent that they be disability , and ensure that they be at the heart of the response ? I welcome back my right hon . friend , from whom I learn so much as a parliamentary private Secretary . it be pleasing to know that his work on neurodiversity and understand other continue to be at the heart of what he bring to this House , even in his last few moment here . I be recently at Neurobox in Cambridge , where dyslexia need be discuss , as well as the wide need in the labour market to learn about understanding , and help people through , the access to work scheme . my right hon . friend ' s interest be mention there . whether we be talk about the Buckland review , the lilac review on entrepreneurship , which I mention , or partnership in community , such as with Julia Nix , who be stellar leader , those message be important for those who only hear about the experience of the DWP through the mouth of those in this House . I urge people to go and see their local jobcentre . this week there be a " recruit Britain " campaign , back by employer , to enable people to understand our jobcentre ' power to bring about change . last week , I highlight to the Minister a report from the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities that conclude that the UK have fail to take all appropriate measure to address grave and systematic violation of the right of people with disability . she say that the UK Government be " commit to ensure that the UK be one of the good place to live and work as a disabled person . " — [ Official Report , 15 May 2024 ; Vol . 750 , c . 244 . ] do she really stand by that assertion , give the serious concern raise by the Equality and Human Rights Commission ? do she understand why its chair say that they be extremely worried ? the ehrc also say that it believe that the DWP may have break equality law . what do she have to say to the disabled people watch ? she must understand that it be a clear demonstration that this Tory Government be content simply to disregard disabled people , their right and their need . if she disagree , let she tell we specifically why . I thank the hon . Lady for her remark . just this week , I meet people with disability in the media industry who be thrive while work in ITV , which try to help people when it come to wider — will the Minister answer my question ? I be just try to . I meet a company that be work to ensure that NHS building be more accessible , so the DWP understand that . the hon . Lady ask whether I really believe that the UK could be the good place in which to be a disabled person , in term of accessibility and opportunity . we be engage and learn in the context of a change labour market and change need . as for her early point , we in the DWP want every customer to be support , and we be commit to provide a compassionate service for all . we take our obligation under the Equality Act 2010 extremely seriously , and that include the public sector equality duty . we will , of course , continue to co - operate with the commission ' s investigation . I stand by my comment that we be disappointed to be in this position . we often deal with tragic and complex case , and our sympathy be always with the family concern . we will continue to review and learn about process in order to understand well why the commission be take this action . navigate the benefit system be difficult enough for able - bodied people , but for those who become disabled because of illness or accident , it become a virtual nightmare , just at the point when they need the system the most . also , many employer concentrate on what people can not do , rather than what they can do . will my hon . friend update the House on the work be do to ensure that people , particularly those who suffer disability owe to illness or accident , receive the benefit that they need at their time of great crisis ? we be roll out our WorkWell service , and we have universal support as well . fifteen integrate care system will pilot WorkWell ; the pilot will be locally design to fit local need , and will be link to our exist work and health system . work will be do throughout London . I be not sure whether that will include my hon . friend ' s part of London ; I be sure that we will be able to let he know . as I mention , my dad become disabled and be not use to navigate the benefit system . that happen to many people . many think that people be bear with disablement , but it can be acquire as a result of accident or incident . the gov . uk website give information about the benefit calculator and the Citizens Advice help to claim service , and encourage people to see a disability employment adviser . my hon . Friend ask what more could be do . notwithstanding the great support provide by programme such as Access to work , there be more that can be do , but that safety net be there to protect people when they be at their most vulnerable , whatever the reason . disabled people ' s confidence in the Department be at a terribly low ebb . we be originally tell that these negotiation would be conclude within a few month , but in fact , as the Minister have tell we , they drag on for three year , and they fail . the commission have tell I that now that negotiation have end , there be no restriction on what the Department can say about what be happen during those negotiation . at the very least , we need some explanation from the Department of why it have not be possible to reach an agreement . can the Minister give we that explanation now ? I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for his question . as I have say , we will work constructively with the commission during its investigation in order to understand its concern well . we be seek further clarity on what information we can share , but until those conversation have end , I will not be in a position to share any further information . the Secretary of State , of course , make his comment to the Department , but the permanent secretary tell the Committee that the term of reference have be publish , and we welcome that , because it will give we a clear sense of what the commission want to investigate . we hope that a deep insight into that very complex machine will allay some of the concern that the right hon . Gentleman have rightly identify , and if there have be breach or improvement can be make , we will of course address that . the Department be constantly learn , and work be be do to strengthen guidance and training through continuous improvement activity . the right hon . Gentleman mention confidence . it be important that colleague and those with disablement feel confident that we have the necessary tool to help our most vulnerable claimant , and of course we will take account of everything that the commission say . I be indebted to the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) for obtain today ' s urgent question , and she be correct to say that policy should be base on fairness , dignity and respect . in deal with case , I find that those with mental health condition , include sporadic mental health condition , be often unfairly sanction , go through much deep stress and sometimes end up in desperate poverty as a result . in advance of the inquiry , could the Minister tell we what the Department be do to ensure that the sanction regime against people with disability , particularly those with mental health condition , operate in a much more respectful and inclusive manner that help they to deal with the horrible problem they be try to cope with ? the right hon . Gentleman make an important point about fluctuate condition and need , which he be absolutely correct to identify . we have a grow number of visit officer — 500 — and a grow number of colleague with a trauma - inform approach , and there be close engagement with wide safeguarding . have a trust relationship with one ' s work coach , job coach and disability employment adviser be so important , and this be at the heart of our safeguarding protocol , which be in place for healthcare professional who undertake assessment . if they identify a new condition or concern , they will ensure that the individual ' s healthcare team be aware and communicate directly with they . again , that be why we have the trauma - inform approach . I recently see it be use at the Hastings service centre , where decision be make on child maintenance , and at jobcentre . the approach be be roll out in order to be at the heart of what we do . in all the time I have be in this House — it be quite a long time — I have never pick on civil servant or the people who deliver policy on the ground , because I be always remind that President Harry Truman have a sign on his desk that say , " the buck stop here " . the buck stop here with the Government , but let I reinforce a point that be make early . my constituent tell I — as chairman of the Westminster Commission on Autism , I be sympathetic towards this — that the staff they meet be good about physical disability , but be not good when it come to neurodiversity , people on the autism spectrum and people with little - know mental health challenge . can we give more training to the people who carry out assessment to make they more effective and efficient ? I agree with the hon . Gentleman that the nature of disability and need have change , which be what I be try to draw out early . different type of need be come our way . we all know from our own constituency casework about the support that disabled people need in any realm , and it be about understand the different need and appreciate that need change . I can assure he that the Department work closely with healthcare assessor , and have put in a new process to allow personal independence payment to be pause when an appointment have already be schedule — for example , if we need to have additional information . we be very aware that claimant ' need be different — hence the Buckland review of autism . we know that a huge number of autistic people be very keen to work , but not enough of they do , and this be at the heart of our understanding . I think the hon . Gentleman and I share the same view on this issue . the Department will need to make change and develop its understanding , and I want to reassure the House that we come in the spirit of learning . the Minister be always compassionate and understand the issue , as we can tell from the way she respond . as I often say , however , the benefit system lead to incredible frustration . when those who be disabled have their application refuse , they go to appeal . the big issue in my office be benefit , include appeal ; we have one staff member who do nothing else during the five - and - a - half - day week that she work . although we recognise that DWP staff do a good job , there need to be a well understanding of how the system work . when someone fill in their application , there need to be a well understanding of what it mean to have chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , osteoarthritis , diabetes , blood pressure problem , back pain , chronic pain . those be the issue . when we win 85 % of appeal , it indicate that perhaps the first decision be not right . I thank the hon . gentleman for the way he approach this matter . it also give a chance for all of we to thank our casework team who do so much , and indeed all the staff across DWP . they know that our customer vary . they know that , at time in their life , they need additional support . that be why we have those specialist service , role and procedure in place , from the DWP visit service to the advanced customer support senior leader . we have the serious case panel review , and we have the customer experience survey . we be always listen and learning , and there be a continuous need to do that . on fluctuate condition , which other member have mention , we have put a well understanding of need and diagnosis at the heart of our engagement on reform , and that be what disabled people have tell I as well . minister have have three year to reach a basic agreement to ensure that the service that the Department provide be accessible and do not discriminate against disabled people . be it laziness , incompetence or the chaos endemic across Government that have result in the absolute failure to reach a negotiation ? can the Minister acknowledge that this failure have never be see in any other Department before , and represent , under the Equality Act , a further demonstration of discrimination against disabled people ? the failure of the negotiation itself represent the problem . I reiterate to the House , and to the hon . Gentleman , that we take our obligation under the Equality Act incredibly seriously . I have speak about the change nature of condition , understanding and learning , and the public sector equality duty , and we will continue to co - operate and engage with the commission on its investigation . as I say , we do not believe that an investigation be necessary , but we do take its concern seriously . I undertake to the House that the Department will be focus on those new term of reference so that we can work constructively with the commission , in its investigation , to well understand its concern . [ interruption . ] I understand the concern of the hon . member for East Renfrewshire ( Kirsten Oswald ) , who be chuntere again , but I reiterate to the hon . member for Bermondsey and Old Southwark ( Neil Coyle ) that we be very much determined to work with the commission as a way forward . I agree that it be very disappointing that we have not be able to come to a mutually agreeable position . I assure he that , over the past five year , this very large Department , which deal with many different area and complex case , have put at the heart of what we do — of which I be extremely proud — a dedicated understanding of the individual and their need . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) on secure this urgent question and continue her fantastic work in this Parliament on the right of disabled people . I also congratulate the Equality and Human Rights Commission on open this important investigation and on retain its a - grade status as a national human right institution in the face of malicious attempt to undermine the work that it do for equality and human right for all . I work with many fantastic disability charity in my Edinburgh South West constituency , include Health All Round , Tiphereth and Garvald , but charity should not have to fill the huge gap leave by the Government ' s dereliction of their duty . discrimination against disabled people be a human right issue , and that be something about which I care passionately as the elect Chair of Parliament ' s Joint Committee on Human Rights . as we be about to go into a general election period , will the Minister take the opportunity to give a cast - iron guarantee on behalf of her party that she will end discrimination against disabled people in the benefit system and end her Government ' s continue breach of disabled people ' s human right ? I appreciate that there be a general election coming but , when it come to the most vulnerable people , this be not a morning for politicking . it be about be compassionate , it be about understand disabled people ' s right and it be about listen and learning . we be focus on individual by work with the domestic abuse commissioner and through WorkWell ' s universal support , the national disability strategy , the action plan and the trauma - inform approach . vitally , as the hon . and learn Lady say , it be about hear not just from disabled charity but from disabled people across the country to understand their need . it be incredibly important that we take this seriously , and we be determined that , if the investigation under the term of reference give we a deep insight into the concern — I have speak to the Select Committee about how the Department deal with the most complex case — we will take every step to address any improvement identify by the commission . I hope that give the hon . and learn Lady , disabled people and those with health condition comfort that we take their need and want extremely seriously at the heart of Government . AI Seoul Summit with permission , Mr Deputy Speaker , I shall make a statement on the AI Seoul summit , which the Government co - host with the Republic of Korea early this week . the AI Seoul summit build on the legacy of the first AI safety summit , host by the UK at Bletchley Park in November 2023 . at Bletchley , 28 country and the European Union , represent the majority of the world ' s population , sign the Bletchley declaration agree that , for the good of all , artificial intelligence should be design , develop , deploy and use in a manner that be safe , human - centric , trustworthy and responsible . the same set of country agree to support the development of an international , independent and inclusive report to facilitate a share science - base understanding of the risk associate with frontier AI . at the same time , the UK announce the launch of our AI Safety Institute , the world ' s first government - back organisation dedicate to advanced AI safety for the public good . world leader , together with the leader of the foremost frontier AI company , agree to the principle that state have a role in test the most advanced model . since Bletchley , the UK have lead by example with impressive progress on AI safety , both domestically and bilaterally . the AI Safety Institute have build up its capability for state - of - the - art safety testing . it have conduct its first pre - deployment testing for potential harmful capability on advanced AI system , set out its approach to evaluation and publish its first full result . that success be testament to the world - class technical talent that the institute have hire . early this week , the Secretary of State announce the launch of an office in San Francisco that will broaden the institute ' s technical expertise and cement its position as a global authority on AI safety . the Secretary of State also announce a landmark agreement with the United States early this year that will enable our institute to work together seamlessly on AI safety . we have also announce high - level partnership with France , Singapore and Canada . as AI continue to develop at an astonishing pace , we have redouble our international effort to make progress on AI safety . early this week , just six month after the first AI safety summit , the Secretary of State be in the Republic of Korea for the AI Seoul summit , where the same country come together again to build on the progress we make at Bletchley . since the UK launch our AI Safety Institute six month ago , other country have follow suit ; the United States , Canada , Japan , Singapore , the Republic of Korea and the EU have all establish state - back organisation dedicate to frontier AI safety . on Tuesday , world leader agree to bring those institute into a global network , showcase the Bletchley effect in action . come together , the network will build " complementarity and interoperability " between their technical work and approach to AI safety , to promote the safe , secure and trustworthy development of AI . as part of the network , participant will share information about model , and their limitation , capability and risk . participant will also monitor and share information about specific AI harm and safety incident , where they occur . collaboration with overseas counterpart via the network will be fundamental to make sure that innovation in AI can continue , with safety , security and trust at its core . Tuesday ' s meeting also mark an historic moment , as 16 lead company sign the frontier AI safety commitment , pledge to improve AI safety and to refrain from release new model if the risk be too high . the company sign the commitment be base right across the world , include in the US , the EU , China and the middle east . unless they have already do so , lead AI developer will now publish safety framework on how they will measure the risk of their frontier ai model before the AI action summit , which be to be hold in France in early 2025 . the framework will outline when severe risk , unless adequately mitigate , would be " deem intolerable " and what company will do to ensure that threshold be not surpass . in the most extreme circumstance , the company have also commit to " not develop or deploy a model or system at all " if mitigation can not keep risk below the threshold . to define those threshold , company will take input from trust actor , include home government , as appropriate , before release they ahead of the AI action summit . on Wednesday , Ministers from more than 28 nation , the EU and the UN come together for far in depth discussion about AI safety , culminate in the agreement of the Seoul ministerial statement , in which country agree , for the first time , to develop share risk threshold for frontier AI development and deployment . country agree to set threshold for when model capability could pose " severe risk " without appropriate mitigation . this could include : help malicious actor to acquire or use chemical or biological weapon ; and AI ' s potential ability to evade human oversight . that move mark an important first step as part of a wide push to develop global standard to address specific AI risk . as with the company commitment , country agree to develop proposal alongside AI company , civil society and academia for discussion ahead of the AI action summit . in the statement , country also pledge to boost international co - operation on the science of AI safety , by support future report on AI risk . that follow the publication of the interim " International Scientific Report on the Safety of advanced AI " last week . launch at Bletchley , the report unite a diverse global team of AI expert , include an expert advisory panel from 30 lead AI nation from around the world , as well as representative from the UN and the EU , to bring together the well exist scientific research on AI capability and risk . the report aim to give policymaker across the globe a single source of information to inform their approach to AI safety . the report be fully independent , under its chair , ture award winner , Yoshua Bengio , but Britain have play a critical role by provide the secretariat for the report , base in our AI Safety Institute . to pull together such a report in just six month be an extraordinary achievement for the international community ; Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report , for example , be release every five to seven year . let I give the House a brief overview of the report ' s finding . it recognise that advanced AI can be use to boost wellbee , prosperity and new scientific breakthrough , but note that , as with all powerful technology , current and future development could cause harm . for example , malicious actor can use AI to spark large - scale disinformation campaign , fraud and scam . future advance in advanced AI could also pose wide risk , include labour market disruption and economic power imbalance and inequality . the report also highlight that , although various method exist for assess the risk pose by advanced AI model , all have limitation . as be common with scientific synthesis , the report highlight a lack of universal agreement among AI expert on a range of topic , include the state of current AI capability and how these could evolve over time . the next iteration of the report will be publish ahead of the AI action summit early next year . conclude the AI Seoul summit , country discuss the importance of support AI innovation and inclusivity , which be at the core of the summit ' s agenda . we recognise the transformative benefit of AI for the public sector , and commit to support an environment which nurture easy access to AI - relate resource for sme , start - up and academia . we also welcome the potential of AI to provide significant advance to resolve the world ' s great challenge , such as climate change , global health , and food and energy security . the Secretary of State and I be grateful for the dedication and leadership show by the Republic of Korea in deliver a successful summit in Seoul , just six short month after the world come together in Bletchley Park . it be an important step forward but , just as at Bletchley , we be only just get start . the rapid pace of AI development leave we no time to rest on our laurel . we must match that speed with our own effort if we be to grip the risk of this technology , and seize the limitless benefit it can bring to people in Britain and around the world . the UK stand ready to work with France to ensure that the AI action summit continue the legacy that we begin in Bletchley Park , and continue in Seoul , because this be not an opportunity we can afford to miss . the potential upside of AI be simply immense , but we can not forget that this be the most complex technology humanity have ever produce . as the Secretary of State say in Seoul , it be our responsibility to ensure that human wisdom keep pace with human knowledge . I commend the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister for all the work they have do on the issue , and I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I be grateful to the Minister for advance sight of his statement . I hope this be in order , Mr Deputy Speaker , because I note that the Minister for Employment , the hon . member for Bury St Edmunds ( Jo Churchill ) be on the Front Bench , and that she be not stand at the general election . I know she have be very cross with I on occasion over the past few year — she be probably still cross with I now . [ interruption . ] as the Minister say , she be only human . on a personal note , as we have both be cancer sufferer — or survivor — and have both have more than one rodeo on that , it be sad that she be leave . I be sure she will continue to fight for patient with cancer and on many other issue , and I pay tribute to she . it have be a delight to work with she over these year ; I hope she will forgive I one day . the economic opportunity for our country through artificial intelligence be , of course , outstanding . with the right sense of mission and the right government , we can make the most of this emerge technology to unlock transformative change in our economy , our NHS and our public service . let we just think of AI in medicine . it be a personal hope that it might soon be possible to have an AI app that can accurately assess whether a mole on somebody ' s back , arm or leg — or the back of their head — be a potential skin cancer , such as melanoma . that could definitely save life . we could say exactly the same about the diagnosis of brain injury , many other different kind of cancer and many other part of medicine there could be no more important issue to tackle , but I fear the Government have fluff it again . much as I like the Minister , his statement could have be write by ChatGPT . I have a series of question . first , let I ask about the " share risk threshold for frontier AI development and deployment " , which the Minister say government will be develop . how will they be draw up ? what legal force will they have in the UK , particularly if there be to be no legislation , as still seem to be in the mind of the Government ? secondly , the Secretary of State hail the voluntary agreement from the summit as a success , but do that mean company develop the most advanced AI be still mark their own homework , despite the potential risk ? thirdly , the Minister refer several time to " malicious actor " . which " malicious actor " be he refer to ? do that include state actor ? if so , how be that work integrate with the cyber - security strategy for the UK ? how will that be integrate with the cyber - security strategy during the general election campaign ? fourthly , the Government ' s own artificial intelligence adviser , Professor Yoshua Bengio , to whom the Minister refer , have say that it be obvious that more regulatory measure will be need , by which he mean regulation or legislation of some kind . why , therefore , have the Government not even take the step that the United States have take use President Biden ' s executive order ? next , have the commitment make six month ago at the UK safety summit be keep , or be these voluntary agreement just empty word ? moreover , have the frontier AI company , which take part in the Bletchley summit , share their model with the AI Safety Institute before deploy they , as the Prime Minister pledge they would ? next , the Government press release state that China participate in person at the AI Seoul summit , so can the Minister just clear up whether it sign the ministerial statement ? as the shadow Minister for creative industry , may I ask why there be no representative of the creative industry at the AI summit ? why none at all , despite the fact that this be a £ 127 billion industry in the UK , and that many people in the creative industry be very concerned about the possibility , the threat , the danger and the risk associate with AI for remuneration of creator ? the code of practice working group , which the Government set up and which be aim at an entirely voluntary code of conduct , have collapse , so what be the plan now ? the Government originally say that they would still consider legislation , so be that still in their mind ? I love this next phrase of the Minister ' s . he say , " we be only just get start " . clearly , somebody do not do any editing . what on earth have take the government so long ? a Labour Government would introduce bind regulation of the most powerful frontier AI company , require they to report before they train model over a capability threshold , to conduct safety testing and evaluation and to maintain strong information security protection . why have the Government not bring forward any of those measure , despite very strong advice from all of their adviser to do so ? finally , do the Minister agree that artificial intelligence be there for humanity , and humanity be not there for artificial intelligence ? I share the sentiment that the hon . Gentleman express about my hon . friend the Member for Bury St Edmunds ( Jo Churchill ) . it be a very sweet thing that he say — the only sweet thing he have say from the Dispatch Box . my hon . friend have be a great friend to I , give I advice when I become a new father . many people do not see the hard work that go into the pastoral care that happen here , so I be personally very grateful to she . I know that she be just about to leave the Chamber , so I will let she do so . I just want to place on record my thank and gratitude to she . I be a bit disappointed with the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) , although I have a lot of time for he . let I first address the important matter of healthcare . we obviously hugely focus on AI safety ; we have take a world - lead position on AI safety , which be what the Bletchley and the Seoul declaration be all about . ultimately , the hon . member ' s final statement about AI be for humanity be absolutely right . we will continue to work at pace to help build trust in AI , because it can be a transformative tool in a number of different sphere — whether it be in the public sector or in health , as the hon . Member quite rightly point out . on a personal note , I hope that , as a cancer survivor he have the very good of health for a long time to come . early this week , the Prime Minister speak about how AI can help in the way that breast cancer scan be look at . I often talk about Brainomix , which have be greatly helpful to 37 NHS trust in the early identification of stroke . that mean that three time more people be now live independently than be previously possible . AI can also be use in other critical pathway . clearly , AI will be hugely important in the field of radiotherapy . the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence have already recommend that AI technology be use in the NHS to help with the contouring of CT and MRI scan and to plan radiotherapy treatment and external therapy for patient . the NHS AI lab be set up in 2020 to accelerate the development and the deployment of safe , ethical and effective AI in healthcare . it be worth say that the hon . member should not underestimate the complexity of this issue . early this year , I visit a start - up call Aival , which the Government help to fund through Innovate UK . the success of the AI model vary depend on the different machine that be use and how they be calibrate , so independent verification of the AI model , and how they be employ in the health sector specifically , be very important . in term of malicious actor , the hon . Member will understand that I can not go into specific detail for obvious reason , but I assure he , as someone who sit on the defend democracy taskforce , lead by the Security Minister , that we have be look at pace at how to protect our election . I be confident that we be prepared , have take a cross - governmental approach , include with our agency . it be hugely important that we ensure that people can have trust in our democratic process . the hon . member be right that these be voluntary agreement . I be surprise by his response , because we say clearly in our response to the White Paper that we will keep the regulator - lead approach , which we have invest money in . we have give £ 10 million to ensure that the regulator increase its capability in a whole sphere of area . we have also say that we will not be afraid to legislate when the time be right . that be a key difference between what the opposition talk about and what we be do . our plan be work , whereas the opposition keep talk about legislate but can not tell we what they would legislate for . we just tell you . you should have listen . there be no robust detail . I see that have exercise the hon . member , who be chuntere from a sedentary position . the opposition just have no serious plan for this . the result speak for themselves . around two week ago , we have a number of significant investment and a significant amount of job creation in the UK , with investment from CoreWeave , and almost £ 2 billion — [ interruption . ] those on the Opposition Front Bench would do well to listen to this . we have £ 2 billion of investment . Scale AI have put its headquarters in the UK . that show our world - lead position , which be exactly why we co - host the Seoul summit and will support the French when they have their AI action summit . it go to show the huge difference in our approach . we see safety as an enabler of growth and innovation , and that be exactly what we be do . the work go on with the creative industry . it be hugely important , and we will not shy away from the most difficult challenge that AI present . rise — Order . before we proceed , this conclude my last session in the Chair for this Parliament . I thank the House for the courtesy and understanding that I have receive during my time as a Deputy Speaker . it have be hugely appreciate . thank you all . hear , hear ! I think the shadow Minister be wise to draw attention to the potential benefit of AI in particular for health research and treatment — notably brain injury , a subject in which he and I share a passionate interest — but foolish , if I might say so , to be churlish about the step that the Government have already take . the Government deserve great credit for take a lead on this internationally , and establish the first organisation dedicate to AI safety in the world . I thank and congratulate the Minister on that , but in balance the advantage and risk — the cost and benefit — will he be clear that the real risk be underestimate the effect that AI may have ? the internet have already do immense damage , despite the heady optimism at the time it be launch . it have brutalise discourse and blur the distinction between truth and fiction , and AI could go far to alter our very grasp of reality . I do not want to be apocalyptic , but that be the territory that we be in , and it require the most consider treatment if we be not to let those risk become a nightmare . I completely agree with my right hon . friend . we recognise the risk and opportunity that AI present . that be why we have try to balance safety and innovation . I refer he to the Online Safety Act 2023 , which be a technology agnostic piece of legislation . AI be cover by a range of sphere where the Act look at illegal harm , so to speak . he be right to say that this be about help humanity to move forward . it be absolutely right that we should be conscious of the risk , but I be also keen to support our start - up , our innovative company and our exciting tech economy to do what they do well and move society forward . that be why we have take this pro - safety , pro - innovation approach ; I repeat that safety in this field be an enabler of growth . I would like to thank Sir Roger Gale , who have just leave the Chair . he have be excellent in the Chair and I have very much enjoy his company as well as his chairing . I thank the Government for advance sight of the statement . my constituent and people across these island be concerned about the increase use of AI , not least because of the lack of regulation in place around it . I have specific question in relation to the declaration and what be potentially come down the line with regulation . who will own the datum that be gather ? who have responsibility for ensure its safety ? what be the Minister do to ensure that regard be give to copyright and that intellectual property be protect for those people who have spend their time and energy and massive talent in create information , research and artwork ? what be the impact of the use of AI on climate change ? for example , it have be make clear that use this technology have an impact on the climate because of the intensive amount of electricity that it use . be the Government consider that ? will the Minister ensure that in any regulation that come forward there be a specific mention of AI harm for woman and girl , particularly when it come to deepfake , and that they and other group protect by the Equality Act 2010 be explicitly mention in any regulation or law that come forward around AI ? lastly , we wait 30 year for an Online Safety Act . it take a very long time for we to get to the point of have regulation for online safety . can the Minister make a commitment today that we will not have to wait so long for regulation , rather than declaration , in relation to AI ? the hon . Lady make some interesting point . the thing about AI be not just the large language model , but the speed and power of the computer system and the processing power behind they . she talk about climate change and other significant issue we face as humanity ; that power to compute will be hugely important in predict how climate change evolve and weather system change . I be confident that AI will play a huge part in that . AI do not recognise border . that be why the international collaboration and these summit be so important . in Bletchley we have 28 country , plus the European Union , sign the declaration . we have really good attendance at the Seoul summit as well , with some really world - lead declaration that will absolutely be important . I refer the hon . Lady to my early comment around copyright . I recognise the issue be important because it be core to build trust in AI , and we will look at that . she will understand that I will not be make a commitment at the Dispatch Box today , for a number of reason , but I be confident that we will get there . that be why our approach in the White Paper response have be well receive by the tech industry and AI . the hon . Lady start with a point about how constituent across the United Kingdom be worried about AI . that be why we all have to show leadership and reassure people that we be make advance on AI and do it safely . that be why our AI Safety Institute be so important , and why the network of AI safety institute that we have help to advise on and work with other country on will be so important . in different country there will be nuance regard large language model and different thing that they will be approach — and sheer capability will be a huge factor . I pay tribute to the Government for their approach on AI . the growth of AI , and its exponential impact , have really not yet land with most people around the world . the scale and impact of that technology be truly once in a generation , if not once in history . ensure that we work around the world to harness that incredibly powerful force for good for humanity be vital . it be good to see the UK play a lead role in that and , frankly , it be good to see a cross - party approach , because this be big than party politic . will all those involve — the Minister , Lord Camrose , the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister — ensure that the agenda of empower the development of AI and put guardrail in place be absolutely at the centre not just of UK policy but of policy across the world ? I put on record my personal thank to my right hon . friend for all that he have do . we work very closely together on the introduction of the integrate care board when he be Health Secretary , and it continue to be hugely beneficial to my constituent . he raise important point about the opportunity of AI and the building of trust , which I have also speak about . however , he mention a " cross - party approach " . I be not sure that the opposition be quite there yet in term of their approach . I say to the opposition that there be a great tech story in this country : we be now the third most valuable economy in the world , worth over $ 1 trillion ; we have more unicorn than France , Germany and Sweden combine ; we have create 1 . 9 million more job — over 22 % more — than at pre - pandemic level ; and , as I have say , just over £ 2 billion of investment have come in just the last fortnight . we believe in british entrepreneur , british innovation and british start - up . the real question be : why do the opposition not believe in Britain ? I welcome the Minister ' s statement . he be right to say that many member across the Chamber support the Government ' s clear goal and objective . the continued focus on the Bletchley declaration be to be welcome , and I welcome the drive to prevent disinformation and other concern . however , although information and practice sharing will be almost universal , we must retain the ability to prevent the censorship of position that may not be popular but should not be censor , and ensure that cyber - security be a priority for we nationally , primarily follow by our international obligation . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to say that AI will play a huge role in cyber - security . we recently launch our code of practice for developer in the cyber - security field . AI will be the defining technology of the 21st century — it be hugely important — and his question highlight exactly why we have take this approach . we want our regulator , which be close to their industry , to define and be on top of what be go on . that be why we have give they capacity - build fund and ask they to set out their plan , which they do at the end of April , and we will continue to work with they . it sound as if there be a fair bit of discussion at the summit about AI in healthcare , particularly on its use as a medical device . the Minister will know that it have great potential , and I hear his exchange just a moment ago . to give just one example , AI can support but not replace clinician in mammography reading . do he agree that we must follow the strong lead of the US in this area by ensure that the regulatory landscape be in the right place to assist this innovation , not get in the way of it ? my hon . friend make a hugely important point . I refer he to what I say early . it be insightful for I to see how transformative AI can be in health . when I visit Aival , for example , I gain insight into the complexity of instal AI as a testing bed for different machine depend on who have manufacture and calibrate they . the regulator will play a huge role , as he can imagine , whether on heart disease , radiotherapy , or DeepMind ' s work in develop AlphaFold . I congratulate the Minister on all his enthusiastic work on AI . in his statement , he refer to the frontier AI safety commitment , and 16 company be mention . one of those be Zhipu AI of Tsinghua Daxue — Tsinghua University in China — which be , of course , one of the four new AI tiger of China . how important be the work that the Minister be do to ensure China be keep in the tent when it come to the safety and regulation of AI , so that we do not end up with balkanisation when it come to AI ? my hon . friend make a really important point . I will not try to pronounce the name of that university or that company ; what I will say be that AI do not recognise border , so it be really important for China to be in the room , have those conversation . what those 16 company sign up to be a world first , by the way : company from the US , the United Arab Emirates , China and , of course , the UK sign that commitment . this be the first time that they have agree in write that they will not deploy or develop model that test the threshold . those threshold will be divine at the AI action summit in France , so my hon . friend be exactly right that we need a collaborative global approach . I thank the Minister for his statement . nhs with your permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to make a statement on this Government ' s work in the national health service . first , I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for South Thanet ( Craig Mackinlay ) — I have warn he that I be go to refer to he — and welcome he back to this place . his magnificent question at Prime Minister ' s question yesterday be an absolute tribute to he and to his family , but also to the national health service , which have do so much to put he back together . my hon . friend ' s commitment to public service and dignity in the face of adversity be not only inspiring , but an example to we all . I make this commitment to he : as Secretary of State , I be determined to change the prosthetics policy to support quadruple amputee such as he . he make the point passionately , and I have hear he . I also want to reassure the victim of the infected blood scandal and their family that the general election that the Prime Minister call yesterday will in no way affect the process that be already under way . throughout the election period , Government official and I will continue to study the report , to make sure that the lesson of Sir Brian ' s inquiry be learn and that the mistake can never be repeat . we will work with the NHS Business Services Authority to make sure that everyone who be eligible receive the second interim payment of £ 210 , 000 over the summer . the report lay bare the many failing of successive government , include historic failing in my own Department . as Secretary of State , I apologise unreservedly for the action that have hurt and harm so many people , and I know there be consensus in this House that we will work together to ensure nothing like this scandal ever happen in our country again . I last update the House in January , and I would like to use this opportunity to share the step we have take since then to make our nhs fast , simple and fair for patient and staff . in 2019 , we promise 50 million more GP appointment a year , and thank to the hard work of our GPs and their team , we have deliver on that promise . in January , we go far by launch our Pharmacy First programme , which empower pharmacist to prescribe medication for seven common condition without the need to see a gp . the number of people use that programme be encouraging , and when it be at full power , 10 million GP appointment will be free up . in the face of industrial action , we have reduce the NHS waiting list by more than 200 , 000 since September . outside the pandemic , we have deliver the big six - month fall in the waiting list in more than a decade , with waiting list fall for six month on the bounce . through our new hospital programme , we have commit to deliver 40 new hospital by 2030 . I be pleased to tell the House that six hospital be now open to patient , two more be expect to open by the end of the financial year and 18 more be in construction . we have launch a recovery plan for dentistry that will create 2 . 5 million new NHS appointment this year alone . that be be do by give dental practice extra cash for new patient they see , introduce golden hello and deploy dental van to isolate rural and coastal community . since I launch our recovery plan , more than 500 additional practice have open their door to NHS patient . today , we be go far by publish a consultation on introduce a tie - in for graduate dentist , which will commit they to a period of NHS work when they can hone their skill , develop a breadth of experience and give back to the people who help fund their training . it cost the taxpayer up to £ 200 , 000 to train a dentist , and we think it be right and fair to ask new graduate to use their new skill in the NHS . ensure that the NHS work for woman be one of my priority , and we have take a number of step to support they . we be open woman ' s health hub across England , we be help 50 , 000 bereaved parent acknowledge their beloved baby with baby loss certificate , and we have help half a million woman to get cheap hormone replacement therapy . we be also roll out new maternal mental health service for new mum , which be already available in all but three local health system . we be look to tackle condition that disproportionately affect the female population , such as osteoporosis . every year in England , some 67 , 000 fracture be suffer by people of work age , the majority of whom be woman , and many of they be entirely preventable . I have listen to the tireless campaigning of the Royal Osteoporosis Society and the campaign of the Express and the Mail on Sunday , so today I want to confirm that this Government have the ambition to expand the use of fracture liaison service to every integrate care board in England and achieve 100 % coverage by 2030 . I have also make it my priority to protect our child , who have be question their identity in ever increase number . the Cass review lay bare the damaging effect that social medium and degrading pornography have have on young people ' s sense of self . it also set out clearly the need for extreme caution in medical intervention . today , I want to set out my clear intention to introduce a ban order on puberty blocker , with limited exception , under section 62 of the Medicines Act 1968 . this be an extraordinary use of that power , but it be the right use of that power because we must protect our child and young people from this risk to their safety . we know that to make the nhs sustainable in the long term , we need to work on prevention , not just cure . to drive this progress , we need to embed prevention within the structure of the national health service and the Government . that be why we will be benchmarke , identify and publish health service prevention spending . to support investment in prevention , NHS England and the Department of Health and Social Care will work closely with integrate care system to develop practical information and evidence that will aid local investment decision . as Secretary of State , I have see how prevention test across the NHS be not join up , and I want to make the NHS app the front door for prevention as well as for cure . by 2026 , people across England will be able to book vaccination for 16 preventable disease , include MMR — measle , mump and rubella — and human papillomavirus , on our app . this move will make sure that million more people receive the vital vaccine we all need , not just save they from life - threaten condition , but save the NHS money and resource in the long term . we also have a duty to give family the information they need to make healthy choice . there have be a lot of talk about the potential damage of ultra - process food , include in the press recently . we want to cut through the noise and give people the fact . that be why I have ask our National Institute for Health and Care Research to gather evidence on the impact of ultra - process food on health to help we support people to make informed and healthy choice . in conclusion , when it come to the NHS , this Government have a record to be proud of . we have 50 , 000 more nurse , 60 million more GP appointment and 7 million test , check and scan at community diagnostic centre . we have waiting list come down , more dental appointment available , well care for woman and more protection for vulnerable young people . we have the first ever long - term workforce plan , and more doctor , dentist and nurse than ever before . we have a clear plan and we be take bold action to build a secure future for our national health service . I commend this statement to the House . let I start with a few point of genuine consensus . first , I associate myself and my party wholeheartedly with the right hon . Lady ' s remark about the hon . member for South Thanet ( Craig Mackinlay ) and the extraordinary courage and strength he have show . I greatly welcome her reassurance to victim of the contaminated blood scandal and the emphasis she place on the cross - party commitment to continue at pace to deliver justice , whatever the outcome of the general election . I also welcome what she say about the justifiably cautious and responsible approach she be take in relation to puberty blocker in the light of the Cass review . that be the end of the consensus , however , because after 14 year of conservative incompetence , neglect and vandalism , the national health service have never be in a bad state . the Government cut 2 , 000 GPs and now it be impossible to get an appointment . they waste billion of pound on top - down reorganisation , recruitment agency and crony contract for useless personal protective equipment instead of train the workforce the NHS need . they force nurse out on strike for the first time in history ; and now the Prime Minister shamelessly try to blame they for his own failure , send the country into an election with strike action still loom . he promise to cut waiting list ; they be up to 7 . 5 million . even their claim that waiting list have fall in the last six month have be achieve only by exclude the community figure — fiddle the figure . he promise to build 40 new hospital and the Government have fail to build a single one . they hold people in this country in such contempt : the Conservatives think the public be so stupid that they will fall for the same recycled soggy promise all over again . vast swathe of the country have be leave without a single nhs dentist , force people in Britain , in 2024 , to perform DIY dentistry on themselves . after 14 year , the fundamental promise of the NHS have be break : people can no long be sure the NHS will be there for they when they need it . listen to the Prime Minister ' s interview this morning , it be clear he have give up on the NHS . he have call this election with no plan to cut waiting list , no plan to end the strike , and no plan to reform the service . the Conservatives have take the NHS to breaking point ; if they be give five more year , they will finish the job . this election be the country ' s chance to turn the page on 14 year of failure , to end the chaos in the NHS and to rebuild our NHS . no part of our country be cry out louder for change than our health service — not just investment but reform , because if the NHS be to be there for we free at the point of use for the next 75 year , as it have be in the last , it must change . only Labour can deliver that change . our damp squib of a Prime Minister be dripping into this election with a puddle not a plan . in contrast , Labour have a plan to get our NHS back on its foot and make it fit for the future . [ interruption . ] conservative Members ask what it be : give the people what they want — 40 , 000 extra appointment a week at evening and weekend to cut waiting list ; double the number of scanner , with AI - enable scanner diagnose patient fast ; 700 , 000 emergency dental appointment and reform of the contract to rescue NHS dentistry ; double medical school place and train thousand more nurse , GPs and midwive , deliver labour ' s workforce plan ; bring back the family doctor so patient can see the same gp for each appointment ; 8 , 500 mental health professional to treat people on time , with mental health support in every school and hub in every community , alongside landmark reform of the Mental Health Act 1983 . that be Labour ' s plan , and that be just the start . More than that , unlike the Conservatives , we have a record on the NHS to be proud of : a record of the short waiting list and the high patient satisfaction in history . we do it before , and we will do it again . that be why representative of the nationalist party in Wales and Scotland know , and even admit in private , that a Labour Government in Westminster will be a rise tide that lift all ship across our United Kingdom . I say to people that it be not enough to send mps to Westminster to oppose the Conservatives ; they need to send Labour mp to replace the Conservatives . if they be give five more year , nothing will change . the chaos will continue , and the NHS crisis will get bad . as we approach this general election , be in no doubt : the only way to deliver the change our country need be to vote Labour . I have every hope that our country will do just that . I know that the hon . Gentleman have spend a lot of time in recent day study that infamous pledge card . it have obviously take up a lot of space in his brain , because he seem not to have understand that not only do we settle month ago with the consultant , so they be not on strike , but we have arrive at a settlement with the specialty and specialist doctor , which be go out to ballot . he ask about junior doctor , and he have obviously miss the news that we have just enter mediation with they . we be bring together , with the workforce plan , the progress we be make on working condition . the Labour party do not like conversation about mediation — no , no , no — because we all know that Labour mp be beholden to their trade union master and have never condemn a single strike that have affect our constituent and their access to healthcare . the hon . Gentleman ask about the new hospital programme , and I be wonder whether he would . it be , as some might say in politic , bold . I have take the trouble — it be a lot of trouble — to read the Labour party ' s health mission . one of its pledge be that one of the first step of a Labour Government would be to pause all capital project in the NHS . our constituent should be clear : the Conservatives have a new hospital programme , which we be deliver ; the Labour party have a no new hospital programme . the hon . Gentleman also talk about the idea for the NHS — one he could not quite remember over the weekend — and the number of appointment that Labour would bring . I think it be appointment , because when he be ask to clarify whether he mean appointment or treatment , he could not define it . I hate to break it to he , but there be a difference between an appointment and , for example , a triple heart bypass . I would love to know whether he be talk about appointment or treatment . just to help he understand the scale of NHS England ' s activity on a weekly basis , it provide 575 , 000 out - patient appointment a week . his pledge sound like a big number , but the truth be that it will not even touch the side , even when Labour have work out where the side be . the hon . Gentleman also bravely talk about the Cass review , and I genuinely welcome the fact that he have throw away his long - hold principle and rely on the evidence that Dr Cass provide , but I wonder whether he ought to have a conversation with his fellow shadow Cabinet member , because they announce a policy this week that be self - identification by the back door . they want to put the responsibility for self - identification and the gender recognition certificate process on the shoulder of our GPs , when we have be clear that we want our GPs focus on the 60 million more appointment they be make in the past year . he do not understand — [ interruption . ] forgive I , he be chuntere at I , and he need to go away and read the Gender Recognition Act 2004 , because it be a panel that look after that process , and Labour be seek to change that to make it a single gp . the hon . Gentleman talk about the record of the conservative party , and we be proud of it . I be particularly proud of the fact that we have record funding under the Government for mental and physical health . I wonder whether he be quite so proud of the record in Wales . by the way , Labour run the NHS in Wales ; I wish I have responsibility for Wales , but I only have responsibility for England . how be that go ? it be go well than it be in Wales . under the labour - run NHS in Wales , a quarter of people be on a waiting list in that part of the NHS . the number of patient wait two year be high in Wales than it be in England . patient be wait on average six week long in labour - run Wales than in England . if that performance be replicate here in England , waiting list could be as much as six million high . the choice be clear : unfunded labour failure or a clear plan for a more secure future with the Conservatives . I call the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee . record funding , a long - term workforce plan finally in place and serious investment at last from the Chancellor on health tech in the spring Budget . that be really welcome and a record to be proud of , as the Secretary of State say , but she will be aware that if demand continue to exceed supply , we have a problem . my right hon . Friend tell we that she do indeed believe that prevention be the new cure , so throughout the general election campaign and from here on as she continue as Health Secretary , will she please bang on remorselessly about the big driver of ill health — smoking , alcohol addiction , obesity , poor housing and bad diet — because , remember , we can only protect the nhs if we be a healthy society ? I thank my hon . friend not just for his question , which be excellent as always , but for his long record in the House , particularly in the world of healthcare . he be a superb Minister in the Department of Health and have chair the Select Committee with great skill . he have scrutinise many a Minister , which I promise he be not a relax experience . I really pay credit to he . may I also thank my hon . friend for highlight the importance of prevention ? we want to bend the demand curve on the NHS . we know that demand have rise in recent year — we be see more people in A & E , we be see more cancer referral and we be see more people access scan , check and diagnostic — and we need to help people to understand that we can take responsibility for our own health . through work such as that on use the NHS app as a gateway to prevention , I genuinely think that we will be help not only our generation but , importantly , young people , who sometimes get forget in our conversation about healthcare . I welcome the commitment from the Health Secretary to pay the £ 210 , 000 interim payment to those infect under the contaminated blood scandal . but can I say that there be no clarity at all from the Government about the payment that Sir Brian recommend in April 2023 to those who have receive nothing so far — the parent who have lose child and the child who have lose parent ? can I seek a guarantee from the Health Secretary that we will see psychological support service put in place in England immediately ? they be in place in Northern Ireland , in Scotland and in Wales . since 2020 , Ministers in the Department have be say that those service would be make available . that be four year ago ; it be not acceptable . after the statement early this week by the Prime Minister and the Paymaster General , that be something that the NHS could do quickly and which would have enormous impact , especially because , with the general election have be call , people do not quite know what will happen to the Government ' s promise . I thank the right hon . Lady for all her work . she may recall that , when the inquiry be announce by the then Prime Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , we have a debate on that matter where I speak as a Back Bencher on behalf of a constituent ; I very much hope that he and other gain some reassurance from the fact that I understand exactly the issue they have face over many year . as Health Secretary , it be my responsibility , and indeed my privilege , to try to help they now . in relation to the compensation scheme for those who have not yet receive payment , I know that the right hon . Lady will have carefully pore through the response of my right hon . friend the Minister for the Cabinet Office and Paymaster General . we want to give the independent compensation authority — I underline independent because I be sympathetic to the sensitivity of family and victim around the role that the Department of Health and other play in their pain — and Sir Robert the chance to set up the scheme , assist by the expert panel . I promise the right hon . Lady that I have be discuss psychological support with the chief executive of NHS England for some time . we want to recruit the right people to conduct that incredibly sensitive work . it will take we a little more time , but I assure she that NHS England be act quickly to bring in those service , we hope , by the end of the summer . I call the Father of the House . I thank the Secretary of State for her answer to the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) . I hope that the letter that her Department receive from we will get a full reply , and I thank she for her interim word . I hope that the Secretary of State will be able to come to the opening of the new integrate care centre by the town hall in Worthing — a local authority enterprise carry on by the present administration in Worthing . there have be great concern about dentistry in my constituency . the pressure be come off , but not fast enough . would she please encourage everyone in NHS England to ensure that dentist be encourage to provide the kind of service that all our constituent want ? I congratulate my hon . friend on the opening of those service . I look forward to attend that opening with he and colleague across his area . in the dental recovery plan I set out a number of way in which we will improve the delivery of dental care across England , include immediate , medium and long - term work . the immediate - term work be already see result . have switch on the new patient premium , we be already see practice opening . we want to bring forward the golden hello to encourage dentist into area that do not have the service that we would like . there be a slightly misinformed Prime Minister ' s question yesterday ; we be in the middle of tender our dental van , because as a rural MP I want service as quickly as possible while we be build the foundation to ensure that people get the care they need . let I say that it have always be a pleasure to see you in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker . I shall miss you terribly ; your fairness , insight and wit have bring colour to this Chamber . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] moment of consensus over , I stand here as the Member of Parliament for a constituency that will have listen to the Secretary of State with horror . for 14 year we have be desperately wait for Whipps Cross Hospital to be redevelop . the Minister for Social Care , the hon . member for Faversham and Mid Kent ( Helen Whately ) , and I have a meeting about it this morning that she have to cancel , presumably because the general election have be call . the fail new hospital programme have cost my constituent dearly . we be tell under that programme that work would be finish by 2025 . they have not even start , because the Government still have not commit the funding . the board meeting note admit that they will not even start next year , and they certainly will not be finish by 2030 . what a damn indictment of this Conservative Government . my constituent have to be treat in corridor at Whipps Cross . the physical layout of the mangle , break building be directly impact on the quality of care that my constituent receive . there be an amazing team at Whipps Cross , do incredible work , almost in tear that we still do not have our new hospital , because of the impact on patient care . will the Secretary of State answer the question that I want to ask her colleague in that meeting this morning ? we need urgent confirmation that we will get the funding to build the hospital at Whipps Cross , to finalise the plan and to start talk to a contractor so that work can begin in 2026 . conservative colleague in my borough pledge to start work last year , but that be not true . will the Minister at least confirm that under her plan we will finally get the funding ? Walthamstow deserve well . Madam Deputy Speaker , I have not hear the news that you be step down . I share the House ' s dismay , but also pass on our thank to you for have be a Chair . it be always a pleasure to see you in the Chair , although it be a steely pleasure because you let we know , most of the time , when we speak for too long . [ interruption . ] answer the question . I be try to ; the hon . Lady ' s colleague be try to prevent I . we have commit to Whipps Cross Hospital . it take time to build hospital . we have six new hospital open to the public already , and another 18 enter construction . I hope that the hon . Lady be challenge her own leadership , include the shadow Health Secretary , because labour ' s health mission — or first step , or pledge ; who know what the terminology be — say that one of its first step in government would be to pause all capital project in the NHS . the Labour party need to answer on that . may I add to the tribute , Madam Deputy Speaker ? this be my final contribution to the House . have serve in the Secretary of State ' s shoe , I know how hard it be to deliver on manifesto commitment . deliver on the commitment to 50 , 000 more nurse and the commitment on GP appointment , and be on track with the 40 new hospital , be a great achievement . could I urge she to say a little more about how all that be support by the incredible improvement in technology in the NHS in the last decade ? without they , there be no way for the NHS to succeed in the next decade . harness extraordinary opportunity such as AI , but not only that , will stand the NHS in great stead , if we can get the datum use properly . and with that , that ' s over . my goodness I . I thank my right hon . friend . I have an inkling of the responsibility and pressure that he bear during the pandemic . there will be many thought about how the Government and society handle the pandemic , but he devote his absolute all to keep people safe , and to move our society out of the lockdown . I thank he sincerely for all his work . true to his character , my right hon . friend want to talk about the future . outside the pandemic , he have a particular focus , when he be Health Secretary and in previous Cabinet position , on the role that technology can play in our life . our NHS app now have three quarter of adult in England sign up to it . that be a testament to he and to those in the NHS who help to deliver it . there be more subscriber to the NHS app than to Netflix . the most common user of the NHS app be those over the age of 65 . we can see just how powerful the app can be , and the role that it will play in prevention , but we need to invest in the technology . I view the long - term workforce plan as critical to build the next 75 year of the NHS , as be the tech plan that the Chancellor announce in the spring Budget , which provide £ 3 . 45 billion for technology to drive forward progress in the NHS — a plan that the opposition have not support . may I take this opportunity to thank all NHS staff for their dedication , professionalism and care , which be really quite extraordinary in the light of the circumstance that they face ? I spend 30 year work in and around the NHS , and I know that it be on its knee in 1996 and 1997 , before the Labour Government make such a difference , but nothing compare to the state of it today . I be think particularly about NHS dentistry ; my constituent be have to wait seven year for an appointment with an NHS dentist . I know that my hon . friend the Member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) will meet dentist on the first Monday after Labour come to office . the Secretary of State have not adopt a plan that would have work , the one produce by the Health and Social Care Committee . can she tell we why she do not adopt that plan in full , and what she will say to my constituent , who will vote at the poll for a service that work , as oppose to one that be break ? I join the hon . Lady in thank her local NHS staff , and , indeed , NHS staff throughout the country . the NHS employ more than 1 . 3 million people , and every single one of they contribute in their own way , from clinician to nurse to hospital porter to administrative staff . all those people play a really important part in keep we well and safe . notwithstanding the picture that the hon . Lady have seek to paint , I hope she will have the graciousness to acknowledge that we be diagnose more cancer case , and diagnose they more quickly at stage 1 and 2 . I hope she will acknowledge , for example , that some nine out of 10 cancer patient be treat within 31 day of a decision to treat they , and that the average waiting time in England — not Wales — be just under 15 week . of course there be more to do , but we have plan in place . I also urge the hon . Lady to look carefully at our dental recovery plan . we have see more practice open up to provide more nhs appointment , and as the recovery plan be roll out , we will see up to 2 . 5 million more appointment , roughly three time as many as will be see under Labour ' s dental recovery plan . compare and contrast ! let I add my good wish for your retirement , Madam Deputy Speaker . I hope it will be a long and happy one . I thank my right hon . friend for her statement . as wait - list figure continue to fall , which be fantastic , it be vital that we continue to boost access to primary care , so will she join I in welcome the news that the excellent Garth surgery in Gisborough , in my constituency , be seek to expand by create six new consulting room and more space for the recruitment of GP registrar ? I thank my right hon . friend for present we with what be happen on the ground , rather than the relentless doom and gloom that we hear from the opposition . there be excellent example in our local area of people not just enjoy work in the NHS , but thrive in it . my right hon . friend ' s general practice will be one of those that have contribute to the 60 million more GP appointment make available in the last year — an election promise that we make in 2019 , and have keep . let I explain the math to the opposition : that mean more than 1 million primary care appointment each work day . that be something of which we should all be proud , and for which we should thank our GPs . may I say how sad I be , Madam Deputy Speaker , that whatever the result of the general election , it will not bring you back to the place that you so wonderfully occupy ? waiting list , dental service , mental health service , clinical trial , workforce morale , cancer care , innovative treatment , childhood obesity — whatever the measure , the Tories have fail we on health . be the Secretary of State really ask the people of this country to vote for five more year of Tory failure , when they can , by vote Labour , vote for the change that the health service , and indeed the country , so desperately need ? may I gently remind the hon . Lady that her party leader be a former barrister ? I declare an interest : so be I . in the old day , we barrister use to rely on the evidence , but the evidence on which the Leader of the opposition relie be produce in Wales . he say that it be a blueprint for what will happen in NHS England . my goodness I ! as I have say , a quarter of the people on NHS waiting list be in labour - run Wales . the high number of patient who be wait two year be in Labour - run Wales , and patient wait on average six week long in labour - run Wales than in England . I be genuinely surprised that , have be in his post for as long as he have , the hon . member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) — for whom I have considerable respect — have not be able to influence or direct his labour colleague in Wales to follow his idea , if he think that they be so good . that be clearly not work . may I add my good wish to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , as you become one of the member of this place who have choose to leave it voluntarily in the come week , and may I say , advisedly , that I wish you all the good as you leave this Chamber of Parliament ? may I return my right hon . friend to the subject of her statement : an nhs update ? recently , on International Nurses Day , I visit Poole Hospital to see the amazing new barn theatre that have result from the huge investment go into the NHS in Dorset . when we talk about the money that we be put into the NHS , that often appear to the public to be mere statistic . however , in Dorset , and in Bournemouth in particular , we see not only the new barn theatre in what be become the primary elective part of the local NHS , but , as a result of the £ 250 million overall investment , the development of the BEACH building — BEACH stand for birth , emergency and critical care and child ' s health . these be real investment , which — notwithstanding the outbreak of hyperbole that I confidently predict we will see more of in the come week , and which , sadly , we have not be able to cure in the last 14 year — be tangible example of this Government ' s commitment to deliver on the frontline . I be delighted to hear that , and also to say that on my travel last Thursday , I have the great pleasure of visit Dorset and see for myself not just a wonderful community hospital in Shaftesbury , but the brand new A & E unit that be be build in Dorchester . it be thank to the hard work of the local trust , but also to Government investment , that that important hospital — alongside those that my right hon . friend have describe — can ensure that people in Dorset receive the care that they need in a modern way . that be the modern national health service as we Conservatives see it . do it not concern the Secretary of State that we be spend a great deal of money because of the private sector , which be an undermine factor in the NHS ? the NHS pay £ 11 million to the private health sector in 2022 , and many hospital be spend 15 % of their budget on private finance initiative contract . do she not think that we could save an awful lot of money by concentrate on expand the NHS workforce ? their loyalty , dedication and efficiency be far well and far great than the atomisation of our service into myriad private sector provider . it be cheap and more efficient to provide the service publicly , thus provide a well service for everyone . let the record reflect this rare moment of agreement between the right hon . Gentleman and I . the PFI contract sign by the last Labour Government have be an unmitigated disaster for our hospital , and for the integrate care board and other who be try to fund they . the Labour Government draft the contract so incompetently that we can not leave they without a massive cost to the taxpayer . that be the real cost of labour - run private finance initiative . however , I part company with the right hon . gentleman on the role of the independent sector . we already rely on that sector to provide something to the tune of 10 % of elective procedure . I want our resident treat as quickly and as well as possible , and to my mind the independent sector must play an important role in that . we conservative want to make it even easy for patient to choose where they receive their treatment , so that they receive they more quickly , as well as the quality of service that they want . I do not know whether he will be here after the election campaign , but we there be at least one area on which we have agree , namely PFI . rise — Order . I be extremely grateful for all the terribly kind comment , which mean that I be a bit reluctant to say this , but we need to crack on , so I ask for brief question and brief answer . [ interruption . ] it appear that the whip agree with I . they know that we have the business statement and then the Finance Bill to get through . a good example will be set by Sir Christopher Chope . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for give such as good example to this House , as always . my right hon . friend be kind enough to meet I and our right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) to discuss the plight of people who be victim of covid - 19 vaccine damage . she sound very sympathetic at the meeting and promise to look into the vaccine damage payment scheme , so it be rather disappointing this week to be tell in answer to a write question : " formal consideration of whether any reform to the VDPS be necessary will form part of Module 4 of the COVID - 19 Inquiry " . the inquiry will not be hear until January next year , and it smack of kick the can down the road and ignore the victim , who need help . the sum pay — £ 120 , 000 — have not be increase since 2007 . order . I fear that my authority be drain away , so I will make another plea for brief question . I think the hon . Gentleman be go to set a superb example . however , I be sure the Secretary of State will now respond briefly . I very much share my hon . friend ' s concern . I will take away what he have say , but I want to look into this issue , because I understand the point that he and our right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) have make . the Secretary of State come to the House , at the end of a Parliament , to paint her Government ' s record on the NHS in the most positive light possible . I have to say to she that the picture she paint will not be recognise by staff work in the NHS or patient anywhere in my constituency . I will give she an example : it be impossible for my constituent to get an appointment at some GP practice in a timely manner . at the same time , our local hospital , which be under severe financial pressure , be report a record number of patient attend its urgent care centre because they can not get an appointment in primary care . will the Secretary of State acknowledge her Government ' s failure to tackle primary care , which be place unbearable pressure on doctor work in our hospital to do the good for their patient ? again , I pay tribute to our general practitioner and all the staff who work with they in practice , because we know that they have deliver some 60 million more appointment than in 2019 . that be an election promise make and keep . on the hon . Lady ' s wide question about primary care , that be precisely why we have roll out Pharmacy First to free up GP appointment . it be precisely why we have a focus on prevention , because we know that if we can help people through the NHS app , it will take the burden off GPs . it be also why we be look at fit note in an imaginative and thoughtful way , because I have listen to GPs , who say that if we can reduce these sort of responsibility on GPs , it will leave they with more time for patient . I thank my right hon . friend for her support in ensure that my community diagnostic centre in Rochester will have extra funding so that an MRI scanner can be secure , which will make a big difference to my local community . as she know , I have be work with the hospital and have conversation about my campaign for a second hospital site in Medway . could my right hon . friend have some conversation with her colleague in the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities ? we have a Homes England , Government - own site on the Hoo peninsula that be absolutely prime for a second hospital site . Medway Council be do its local plan , and it be imperative that the area be use as a health site , rather than a housing site . I thank my right hon . friend , who have be such a firm campaigner on these issue . her constituent should be very pleased with everything that she have do to press upon I the importance of this matter . the community diagnostic centre be open and will provide more test , check and scan for her local resident . I will take up those conversation , and I be very much look forward to come to visit she in the next Parliament to celebrate the opening of the centre . Dame Rosie , in the word of " South Pacific " , if we ain ' t get dame , where would we be ? in November 2021 , Boris Johnson and the right hon . member for Bromsgrove ( Sir Sajid Javid ) appoint I to co - chair a programme board to create a national strategy on acquire brain injury . this issue matter in every single one of our constituency , and I be afraid we be still fail . despite the month that have pass , it have not be possible to put the strategy together for a whole series of reason , include churn of minister and the fact that the Government be not able to put a single penny into it — not even enough money to check how many people suffer a brain injury every year . this be a cross - party issue . how can we ensure that later this year — regardless of who form the government — we end up with a national strategy for acquire brain injury , so that we do not just save people ' s life when they have be in a road traffic accident , but give they back the quality of life and independence that they so dearly deserve ? I thank the hon . Gentleman , and I know that he have be work very closely with the Minister for Health and Secondary Care , my right hon . friend the Member for Pendle ( Andrew Stephenson ) , on this issue . he will remember the cross - party working that we have when I take the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 through the House , and our concern about the disproportionately high rate of ABI among female prisoner . I will take away the hon . Gentleman ' s thought . he will appreciate that I might not be able to enter into detailed discussion with he on this issue during the campaign , but I very much look forward to continue our discussion from the Dispatch Box in six week ' time . thank you for your service . Madam Deputy Speaker . a long time ago I be a medical student , and improve access to general practice be really important to I . I be proud that the record funding that we have put into the national health service have enable we to have not just 50 , 000 extra nurse , but 56 % extra clinical staff in GP surgery in my constituency . the average surgery be do 44 extra appointment every working day compare with at the start of this Parliament , but an age society mean more and more pressure . what be the Minister do to take the pressure off with thing like Pharmacy First ? I thank my hon . friend not just for his early commitment to the medical profession , but for his work as a Health Minister . he do so much to help prepare the dental recovery plan , and I be so grateful to he for all his work . on his question about prevention and the scale of the demand on the NHS , he be absolutely right . one piece of work that we be try to bring together be about look at the whole person , rather than individual condition , because we know that , as we age , we will develop more condition and live with more than one condition . part of my work to reform our NHS and make it fast , simple and fair be about ensure that we be live long , healthy life and concertina the period of ill health towards the very end of life , so that it be well not only for we as individual and for our family , but for society and , of course , for the NHS . in the first few week that I have be the Member for Blackpool South , many of my constituent have contact I about the lack of NHS dentistry in the town . no NHS dentist be take on adult patient , and child with tooth decay be force to go to our local A & E . this be a huge issue in our town , which have so many other troubling issue . will the Secretary State finally admit that this Government have let my constituent down , and that only under a Labour Government will we get access to the dentistry we desperately need ? I welcome the hon . gentleman to his place , and I say to he that Blackpool have a very special place in my heart , because I go to school there . indeed , I could hear the cheer from the " Big Dipper " and the " Pepsi Max Big One " from my classroom . I have coastal town such as Blackpool and Mablethorpe , which be in my own constituency , at the forefront of my concern when we be look at how we could help some of these dental desert . it be why I have be focus on get dental van into tender so that we can try to push out some of these service . they be not a permanent fix , but they will help people in the short term while we be build up new practice through golden hello and suchlike . of course , today we have have the announcement of the consultation for dental graduate . if the taxpayer have contribute to their training , we would love they to have experience of the NHS . I thank my right hon . friend for arrange for the Minister for Health and Secondary Care , my right hon . friend the Member for Pendle ( Andrew Stephenson ) to come to Scunthorpe hospital . we be absolutely delighted to show he our brand new A & E , our ambulatory care unit and the renovated ward that have now be complete . the Secretary of State will know that we be also midway through the construction of our community diagnostic centre , which we be really look forward to get up and run . be she aware of my campaign to ensure that the small number of service that the hospital be indicate might be move to Grimsby remain in Scunthorpe ? it might only be a small number of patient who be affect , but it be incredibly important to they . I know that she can not influence it at this point , but will she acknowledge the great strength of feeling on that issue ? my hon . friend have devote her career in this place not only to represent the steelworker in her constituency , but to her constituent ' healthcare , and it be thank to her campaigning , and that of other colleague , that we have a CDC , and facility like that , in her local area . she have very tactfully describe my position . I , of course , acknowledge my awareness of her campaign , and I really look forward to work with she in the future to see whether we can ensure that the resident of Scunthorpe — and the resident of Grimsby — have those service that we all hold so dear . I thank the Secretary of State very much for her statement . it be clear that the NHS be , in some case , in need of critical care . while we all prepare for an election , there be ill and vulnerable people unable to prepare for the surgery and treatment that they so desperately need . how will the Secretary of State ensure that , while this Parliament dissolve , the NHS continue to consolidate and grow , and deliver much - need diagnosis and operation for its patient — our constituent ? I thank the hon . Gentleman . one of the joy of this Parliament have be to have he contribute in every statement and debate . on the particular healthcare need in Northern Ireland , he will appreciate that healthcare be devolve , and that we be all very mindful of recent history , in term of the devolution of power in that particular set of circumstance . however , I have very much enjoy work with the Health Minister , Minister Swann . clearly , we value our United Kingdom , and we want to do whatever we can to help all corner of the United Kingdom in healthcare — although , of course , we respect that they be devolve matter . that be why I want to work closely with my counterpart in Northern Ireland , and , as I have indicate — or be indicate now — I would be very happy to work with the Health Ministers in Scotland and Wales to help they with their waiting list . this Conservative Government have invest hugely into the NHS . doctor be work extremely hard , but because of the rapid growth of Aylesbury , unfortunately , there be still many local resident who have to wait too long to get appointment . innovative idea such as Pharmacy First and health hub on the high street be already undoubtedly help , but I believe that we can do even more . that be why , in this election , I be campaign for a permanent walk - in health centre in the heart of the town — a one - stop shop where people can go for check - up , see a nurse , physio or paramedic , and receive expert medical advice and support . do my right hon . friend agree that that be exactly the sort of clear plan for bold action that will secure the future of our NHS ? I most certainly do , and it be a pleasure to hear that my hon . friend , who be such a great campaigner in his constituency , have that as a clear target for his area to represent his constituent . on the recruitment of general practitioner , we have set out , through our long - term workforce plan , our ambition — and , importantly , the plan underlie those ambition — to ensure that we recruit even more doctor , nurse , midwife , dentist , and so on , to build the NHS of the future . my hon . friend might want to share this fact with his constituent : since 2010 , there be more than 41 , 000 more doctor in our NHS in England and more than 73 , 000 more nurse . those be figure to be proud of . I associate myself with the good wish that have be send to you this morning , Madam Deputy Speaker . Prevention be , of course , well than cure , so will my right hon . friend confirm that she be do all that she can to ensure that the Government ' s world - lead Tobacco and Vapes Bill be pass during the wash - up ? she know of my concern about child ' s exposure to vaping . if the Bill will not be pass through wash - up , will she confirm that a Conservative Government would act quickly , once re - elect , to protect our child from deadly nicotine addiction ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend , who , of course , bring her professional expertise into the Chamber . on the Bill , she will appreciate that we be at a very delicate stage , which I be not allow to say anything about at the Dispatch Box , but she should be confident of my commitment , and that of the Prime Minister , to this important legislation and to a smoke - free generation . Buckinghamshire have see significant improvement to the NHS estate , not least with a new paediatric A & E at Stoke Mandeville Hospital , but my right hon . friend will know that we have have many conversation about get a new primary care facility into the village of Long Crendon and about critical upgrade to Wycombe Hospital to replace the age tower . can she confirm that a future Conservative Government will remain absolutely on track to deliver on those facility ? I be delighted to not just support my hon . friend , but commend he for his campaign . this Conservative Government be commit to build the facility that we need in the national health service , and it be a pity that the Labour party do not seem to be in the same place . I thank the Secretary of State for visit Southend Hospital last month . she know that , when I be elect , ambulance handover time in Southend be the bad in the region . they be now often the good , and the emergency village be help thousand of resident . she also help to launch the first trust - wide fracture liaison service in the UK in Southend , which will save thousand of fracture , million of pound and thousand of bed day . will she join I in congratulate CEO Matthew Hopkins , CEO Andrew Pike and consultant rheumatologist Dr Way Main Wong on this life - transform service ? may I say how delighted I be to see my hon . friend back in one piece , give her abseil down the hospital recently , and also say how much I enjoy see the confidence , ambition and professionalism of the new service be provide by her local hospital ? I hope that she be pleased that I can confirm today that the Government have the ambition to expand the use of fracture liaison service to every integrate care board in England , achieve 100 % coverage by 2030 , which be very much inspire by her hospital . since be elect to represent North West Norfolk , I have campaign , with strong local support , for a new hospital . can my right hon . friend the Health Secretary confirm that only this Conservative Government be commit to build a new Queen Elizabeth Hospital in King ' s Lynn by 2030 , for patient and staff , as part of our fully fund plan ? I thank my hon . friend , and very much understand and acknowledge his campaigning on this matter . yes , we want to ensure that his county have the modern hospital facility that it need . I note in pass that , in the Norfolk and Norwich trust , this summer , we will see the opening of more surgical capacity precisely to help to deal with some of the waiting list in his county . this be positive , practical action to secure a bright future for his local NHS . my right hon . friend will be aware of the incredible work that the late James Brokenshire MP do for Old Bexley and Sidcup constituent , particularly with Queen Mary ' s Hospital in Sidcup . build on James ' s legacy , I have be proud to work with my right hon . friend ' s Department , Oxleas NHS Foundation Trust and other partner locally to deliver new service for patient in Old Bexley and Sidcup . will my right hon . friend join I today in thank all the team and all staff at Queen Mary ' s Hospital in Sidcup ? will she join I in thank particularly the project team that be work very hard to deliver the new community diagnostic hub , which will open in Old Bexley and Sidcup early next year ? I be delighted to join my hon . friend in thank the staff in his local area who support that very important hospital , and I praise the confidence and ambition for his local area through the opening of that community diagnostic centre . he be go to see more constituent be diagnose and get treat more quickly because of the investment that this Government have put in to that centre in his constituency . I thank all his staff and particularly the project team . Dame Rosie , I thank you for your service to this Chamber . will my right hon . friend recall the conversation that we have be have about a community diagnostic centre in South Derbyshire , where we do not have one ? we do not have a hospital ; everybody have to travel . could I invite she , not only during the next six week but after the six week — when she be back at that Dispatch Box and I be back here — to visit we and talk to the great teacher , doctor and nurse that want to put this project together ? that be an irresistible invitation , if I may say so , and I will very much look forward to visit my hon . friend ' s constituency to support she in her campaign for a community diagnostic centre . I think we be on the last question , Madam Deputy Speaker , so , as we enter into this general election period , may I give my sincere thank to every single member of our NHS staff and to every single person work in social care across England ? you all do amazing job , and it be my great privilege to serve as your Secretary of State . I wish everybody a very calm — not quiet — six week . the medic will understand what I mean by that . on that note , I thank the Secretary of State for her statement . once again , I thank everyone who make very kind comment . business of the House Further to my business statement last night , the business for today be expect to be as follow : consideration of a business of the House motion , follow by remain stage of the Finance ( no . 2 ) Bill , follow by , if necessary , consideration of a Lords message to the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill , follow by consideration of Lords amendment to the Post Office ( Horizon System ) Offences Bill , follow by , if necessary , consideration of any further Lords message . the business for tomorrow , Friday 24 May , will include : if necessary , consideration of Lords message , follow by consideration of Lords amendment to the Victims and Prisoners Bill , follow by debate on a motion to approve the draft Sanctions ( EU Exit ) ( Miscellaneous Amendments and Revocations ) Regulations 2024 , follow by an opportunity for matter to be raise ahead of the forthcoming Dissolution , to allow for valedictory speech by member of Parliament , follow by , if necessary , consideration of Lords message . the House will prorogue follow a message from the Lords Commissioners . I start by express to the hon . member for South Thanet ( Craig Mackinlay ) my huge admiration for his return here after his unimaginable and life - change illness . as he joke , he break all the rule and we be only too happy to reciprocate , with the whole House give he a standing ovation . it be a fitting and move moment . cheekily , may I also take this opportunity to congratulate my club — the club I also represent — Manchester City , on win the premier league for a historic fourth time in a row ? Saturday ' s FA cup final will be the only day that I support the blue , not the red , for the next few week . this week also mark the seventh anniversary of the Manchester Arena attack . it be a day that Mancunians will never forget . we remember those who die , who be injure and who be still affect . yesterday , the Prime Minister promise Figen Murray , the mother of Martyn Hett , who be kill in the attack , that Martyn ' s law would be introduce before the summer recess . regrettably , that now seem unlikely , but I hope whoever be return after the election can bring in Martyn ' s law as soon as possible . yesterday ' s announcement come as a surprise . despite be drown out by " thing can only get well " , we hear that the real reason the Prime Minister call the election be that he think thing will only get bad for he . his abrupt Dissolution of Parliament mean that he will start the campaign by leave many government commitment and Bills up in the air or in the bin . his pledge on a smoke - free generation , plan for a football regulator , promise to renter and leaseholder and protection for our broadcaster be now all at risk . I be pleased that very important commitment to victim of the Post Office and infect blood scandal will be honour in our final business this week . this be go to be a change election , but change come soon than expect for member who be stand down . I will not mention they all , because I know we will have an opportunity for valedictory speech tomorrow , but there be a few I want to mention today . on this side of the House , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Camberwell and Peckham ( Ms Harman ) , the Mother of the House but also the political mum to many of we , have do so much for woman and to bring about change . there be also the great Dames , include you , Madam Deputy Speaker — you have be a great friend to I and a wonderful parliamentarian over many year — and my right hon . friend the Members for Derby South ( Dame Margaret Beckett ) and for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) : all powerful and highly respected woman who have make a big and lasting impact . my wonderful and popular hon . friend the Members for Westminster North ( Ms Buck ) , for Halifax ( Holly Lynch ) and for Caerphilly ( Wayne David ) will be greatly miss . despite a t - shirt I wear recently , I have a number of friend on the Government Benches . the right hon . member for Harlow ( Robert Halfon ) be an outstanding Chair of the Education Committee , on which we serve together — we share a mutual enjoyment of " Love Island " . I also have great respect for : the hon . member for Broxbourne ( Sir Charles Walker ) and for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) , have work alongside they on the House of Commons Commission ; the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Dame Tracey Crouch ) , for all she have do on football regulation ; and the right hon . member for Pudsey ( Stuart Andrew ) , who need to be find a seat fairly soon , for his great work on that issue , too . I also take this opportunity to wish the Leader of the House well . she be perhaps well know for carry a sword , but she be highly regard in this place . she have be a formidable opponent and I shall miss our weekly exchange . I be not sure that the hon . member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Deidre Brock ) will miss they quite so much . I probably will not miss some of the Leader of the House ' s more tortured metaphor , but I hope that she have the chance to install that new boiler and get herself a decorator crab , and have some time to put clothe on her action toy Ken , who of course have no ball — those who be here will remember that one well . at least the election will give the Leader of the House ample opportunity to stand up and fight . we will be campaign ferociously for different outcome but , whatever happen , I thank she for her co - operation and collaboration , for make I raise my game in this place and for remind I of how important a good blow dry be on these occasion . finally , although this place will be quieter in the come week , I know that a lot of work be go on behind the scene , with the hard - work House staff prepare for the next Parliament . I thank the Clerk and his team in advance , and I also thank Liam Laurence Smyth for his decade of service to this House . until next time . Madam Deputy Speaker , I start by send you and all member who be retire from this place my good wish and thank for your service and friendship . I consider many of the hon . and right hon . member mention by the hon . member for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) to be hairdress buddy . I wish everyone good luck for the next chapter . although today ' s headline be focus on Westminster and the forthcoming election , I take this opportunity to reassure people that all of we , especially those who hold ministerial office , will remain focused elsewhere , too . yesterday , I meet some of the family of those still hold hostage in Gaza : the family of Eli Sharabi , the late Yossi Sharabi , whose body be still hold by Hamas , Naama Levy , Alon Ohel , Yair and Eitan Horn , Evyatar David and Guy Gilboa - Dalal . our thought and focus will continue to be with they and all other who need our attention during this election period . I also echo the remark of the hon . member for Manchester Central on the Manchester Arena bombing . she will know that matter such as Martyn ' s law , which be a brilliant initiative , will be part of the wash - up process . I hope to be able to update the House in the come day . as this be the last business statement in this Parliament , I place on record my thank to all those who work for the House , include the legislative , drafting and parliamentary team , and my official . their professionalism throughout two very demanding and record - break legislative programme have be exemplary . I also thank my fellow cast member at business question , my opposite number and commissioner , and their respective party , and all those who have show up each week to do their duty — none more so than the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . I also thank the clerk and staff of the Privy Council . it have be a huge honour to have be able to assist his Majesty the King and the royal household through the loss of the late Queen Elizabeth II , and to support his Majesty during his early time as our sovereign . I be very proud of he and our royal family . they , and the service that surround they , be a reflection of the good of we . that bring I to another group I must thank . we have the good news this week that inflation be down to 2 . 3 % , which mean that the cost of fuel , food and housing be begin to stabilise , and we can all plan ahead with much more confidence . it be the british people we have to thank for that , as it be their achievement . Ours be the first major country to defeat inflation and we have do well than our neighbour . I want to remind we all why we have do so . it be because we be an experienced , determined , dynamic and innovative economy and country . we have make tough decision and make the change need , and we take the consequence and it come good . I thank everyone who tighten their belt and work hard for their stoicism in the face of war in Europe , global shock and the legacy of covid . I thank the public servant who know that pay rise need to be sustainable and keep service go . I thank business leader who put in place efficiency , do more with less , motivated and retain staff , and continue to grow their venture . the public have many concern , but chief among they be the cost of living . that be why the good economic news this week be so welcome . it show that when we work together , all be possible . I want to give my assurance to the victim of the infected blood scandal that this Government stand by the commitment make early this week . there be a clear desire across the House to ensure that legislation to compensate those who have be infect and affect as a result of this scandal be pass , and that will be do on a cross - party basis . today , the Lords will consider the Third reading of the Victims and Prisoners Bill , and tomorrow this House will consider Lords amendment to the Bill which will establish the compensation scheme within three month of the Bill ' s receive Royal Assent . I want to give those same assurance to the individual who have be victim of the Horizon Post Office scandal . this House will consider Lords amendment to the Post Office ( Horizon System ) offence Bill today , and I want to give this Government ' s commitment to those victim that , subject to the agreement of both Houses , which I be sure we will receive , the legislation to quash the conviction of those sentence will be secure before the House prorogue . let I deviate from my script briefly to say that we will not leave this place until we have do our duty by those people . there be ongoing discussion about the remain business on other Bills , which will be do on a cross - party basis . as be common practice during the wash - up , those negotiation will be ongoing and we will hope to update the House on further business . the hon . member for Manchester Central talk about the election , and democracy be an opportunity . it be an opportunity to think about what we want our nation to be in the next decade and the decade to come . the UK have be through tough time , but the choice we have make collectively have give we the freedom to be ambitious , both at home and abroad . the Chancellor ' s statement this week be testament to that , and this be why so much be at stake in the next few week . we Conservatives be undoubtedly the underdog in this fight , but I go into this election , where I will indeed be stand up and fight , fill with optimism and hope . I say that because I be proud of our record , from our soar literacy rate to our halving of crime . I be proud of my colleague , none more so than my hon . friend the Member for South Thanet ( Craig Mackinlay ) . I be proud of my party and its mission to encourage and reward people who take responsibility , and I have always be proud of our country . the hon . member for Manchester Central and her leader be at a disadvantage as they go into this fight , because they be not proud of Labour ' s record ; they be try to disown it . the labour leader have be distance himself from his own mps and candidate : the anti - business , anti - Israel , anti - opportunity , anti - responsibility , Britain - bash brigade that sit on the Benches opposite . it say much about her party that its sole campaign narrative be that the Labour party be not really the Labour party at all . but recognise that it be at odd with the value of this nation be not the same as be supportive of they . the public have be angry at we because of what we have have to deal with and because we have put the country first . the question be whether that red mist will blind they to what be on offer under the red flag : the burden on business ; Britain be tie back into the EU ' s regulatory straitjacket ; the undermining of NATO through an EU defence pact ; the undermining of our border through an EU migration pact ; high taxis ; less disposable income ; the wreck ball that would be take to our constitution ; and the cut to the NHS budget that Labour have so viciously make in Wales . the fact be that nothing matter more to the Labour party than the interest of the Labour party and its paymaster . these be ruthless socialist lead by a weak and unformed leader . in six week ' time , we will know the answer from the british people . we Conservatives may be the underdog , but we be on the right side , and that be on the side of the british people . further business will not be announce in the usual way . [ laughter . ] I call the Father of the House . I thank the Leader of the House and her opposition counterpart for agree to get through change to deal with the infected blood compensation and with the conviction of sub - postmaster and other . I note that we have not hear that the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill can be bring forward . if that could be do , I would greatly welcome it . if it be not do , I hope to be back here in six week ' time to campaign for it , because , like many of the mp who be stand again and many who be not , I can say that most of our national campaign come from the experience of a constituent , a friend or a member of our family . translate what be individual and what be local into what be national and important be part of our role here . may I join both Front - Bench spokespeople — through you , Madam Deputy Speaker — in thank all the staff who have support we and all those who , while we be away get more exercise , will be make this place ready for our return ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and for his consistent appearance at business question . although there be a lot of speculation about the legislative programme , he will know that the negotiation with the Opposition party be ongoing . however , I hope to update the House soon with regard to the Bill he mention and further Bills . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . there be so many thing I could ask the Leader of the House about today — and I know that tribute will be pay later by my right hon . friend the Member for Midlothian ( Owen Thompson ) to SNP Members who will be stand down — but yesterday I experience another moment this week , along with the statement by Sir Brian Langstaff , that I will never forget . I be sit in a room with infected blood survivor and family as the news sink in that just day after make a rightfully repentant statement to Parliament , her Prime Minister have decide to throw a snap election . I know that the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) will be raise specific with she , but will the Leader of the House give the House a guarantee now that the concern that the infected and affected have arise from the Paymaster General ' s statement on Tuesday , about issue such as the continuation of support scheme , will be address and take forward ? may I remind the Leader of the House of the offer she make to arrange at least a ministerial meeting with the chief executive officer of the Cold Chain Federation , so that he can discuss the Brexit chaos at our border ? after the week ' s National Audit Office report on the £ 5 billion bill for Brexit border charge , that offer of a meeting between he and an appropriate Minister could not be more timely . give the general reluctance to talk about Brexit chaos , perhaps we might ask for a statement tomorrow on the legacy of 14 year of Tory chaos , as this government stutter to their end . what a list we have to choose from : english river so filthy that the chief medical officer warn people not even to paddle in they ; endless strike in the NHS in England , with nurse use food bank to feed their family ; national debt stand at more than £ 2 trillion ; the high personal tax burden since 1948 ; mortgage double or treble almost overnight thank to Tory incompetence ; the multibillion - pound scandal of hs2 , ajax tank and , of course , dodgy personal protective equipment covid contract . we could debate alternative , but with Labour meekly accept £ 18 billion in public service cut , junk its £ 28 billion green spending promise and carry on with the Brexit chaos , we will not find change on the Labour Benches . if this place ever look to Scotland for inspiration instead , I would happily discuss the benefit of have a water service own by the people , where profit do not fly into the hand of shareholder ; a Scottish NHS , where there be no strike ; or a Government who protect their citizen and mitigate the cost of living crisis . I have only just scratch the surface , but I be aware that I be time limited , just like this Government . lastly , may I pay a genuine tribute to the Leader of the House for the enormous help she have be to the cause of scottish independence ? I wish she very well in her next career , whatever her future bring . it be go to be a fun six week . I join the hon . Lady in pay tribute to her colleague who will be stand down at the election . I also pay tribute to the hon . Lady , whom I admire greatly . rather like Monty Python ' s Black Knight , she return every week , with no discernible loss of enthusiasm , threaten to bite my leg off . her resilience in the midst of the implosion of her own party have be impressive ; I gently say to she that that be a rather british quality . I do not know what she mean about the cause of independence — the poll say that independence be lose considerable support — but our weekly exchange have certainly go down well with the Scottish Unionist contingent . what they will do , give that this will be our last exchange , I do not know . I do not know where to start with the hon . Lady ' s list this week , but let I content myself with a two point . first , I say to she again that our economy be grow fast than the eurozone and our export be at a record high . during the debate that she will have in the next six week , I hope she will learn more about the trajectory our nation be on and the new find freedom business have , and congratulate business in Scotland , whether they provide good or service , on how they be capitalise on that . I gently remind the hon . Lady that when the Scottish NHS be struggle , it be this Government that offer support , which the Scottish Government turn down . they turn down additional help for scottish citizen to get treat on the NHS for political reason . that say something not just about her party ' s record , but about its political dogma and approach to the single issue that it care about above all else , include the wellbeing of scottish citizen . I thank the hon . Lady and I wish her good luck in the following week . thank you for call I , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be the last time I shall rise to speak in this great of all legislative Chambers . you have be a great friend , full of advice and support . we be here not to build a legacy , but to get stuff do . in that spirit , I ask the Leader of the House to lend I her support . I chair the Country Food Trust , which work with over 1 , 000 food bank to bring prepacke venison to hungry people . we have be work tirelessly with fantastic official and Ministers in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs to get the deer management strategy launch . we be moment away from do it , but we find ourselves in the wash - up . please can I ask the Leader of the House to put her shoulder to the wheel and get this management strategy over the line ? it will feed hungry people and save our woodland . with that , Madam Deputy Speaker , I thank Alison , Huw , Zoe and Martyn , who have be my Principal Clerks over my 12 year as a Select Committee Chair . and that be it . good afternoon , thank you and goodbye . hear , hear ! I be glad that my hon . friend attend business question because we all owe he a huge debt of gratitude . the public may not know this , but my hon . friend have work behind the scene to ensure that mp be support and can do their job well . he have introduce many new positive initiative to take this place into the modern world , not least ensure that when new Members of Parliament arrive in the next Parliament , alongside their parliamentary career they can gain qualification that will enable they to go on and have career after be in this place . on behalf of we all , I thank he for his diligence and care for all of we . give that stellar record , the least I can do be put my shoulder to the wheel and ensure that the Country Food Trust and the deer management strategy be take care of . although I can not tell he the outcome , I shall certainly ensure his case be make . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . one consequence of hold a snap general election be that many Backbench debate that we have on the list and that be schedule for forthcoming week will be put to one side . some 14 debate have already be schedule for Westminster Hall and the Chamber in the come week . we have write to the successor Chair of the Committee , whoever that may be after the general election , care of the Leader of the House , so that she can act on it , pass on the note or leave it in a drawer for whoever succeed the right hon . Lady , to suggest these subject might be take before the successor Committee be establish in the new Parliament . with that , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will sit down . I thank all the Clerks of the Backbench Business Committee , include Nick Taylor , the most recent Clerk , and Jim Davey , who use to work in the Speaker ' s office . many other have go on to do great thing within the clerk service of the House , have serve as the Clerk of the Backbench Business Committee . like you , Madam Deputy Speaker , I be retire , so with that , I sit down . I thank the hon . gentleman for all that he have do as a fantastic Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . he have be diligent and bring in new innovation , and he have be a great addition to business question every single week . I thank he sincerely for all he have do and wish he all the good in the future . I be sorry that those who have debate schedule will not be have they . in whatever capacity I can , I will ensure good facilitation between his tenure and the new tenure of the Backbench Business Committee . Madam Deputy Speaker , I thank you for your service . we have know each other for a considerable amount of time — perhaps too long . this be not a valedictory speech on my part — I will be stand and I intend to come back here on 5 July — but I wish you very well for a very happy future . I say to my right hon . friend the Leader of the House that I be sad that I be not ask to be a member of the hairdressing club — I simply can not understand why . none the less , I would like to raise a couple of matter with she . the sudden election mean two important matter that be pass into the Criminal Justice Bill by unanimous consent be in danger of fall : the cuckooing amendment , which will make it an offence to threaten people and take their household from they in order to run crime from there ; and the dangerous cycling legislation , which will bring cyclist within the criminal justice system and the highway code . there be no opposition to either amendment , so will she take they forward for discussion ? I do not know whether it be feasible , but can those two amendment get through the wash - up just as they be ? finally , a hospital project in my constituency be be sign off this coming week and building be due to start on the scheme , for which my constituent have fight for over 50 year . consider such project need to be sign off by official rather than Ministers , can work that be ready to go start anyway ? will she check that out for we ? I thank my right hon . friend for raise these important matter . he be right that those two measure have huge — unanimous — support across the House , and I will certainly make sure that all those involve in the wash - up process have hear what he have say today . I will also send my right hon . friend ' s office some advice about the ongoing work and the status of it and whether it can continue through the next few week . may I also pay tribute to you , Madam Deputy Speaker ? I think you be a class act . may I also thank the Leader of the House for all her work in deliver on the infected blood report , the apology and this week ' s statement on compensation ? I take some comfort from what she say about the Victims and Prisoners Bill . I hope very much that that Bill turn into law in the wash - up , particularly because it establish the compensation authority , which will start to pay out compensation . it also have a clause in it around interim repayment for those who have never receive a penny — the parent who lose child and the child who lose parent . I note that the Leader of House say , " we will not leave this place until we have do our duty . " I just ask she whether she would put her shoulder to the wheel on one last thing , which be lobby her colleague to ensure that those infected and affect , who be now enter into a period of engagement with Sir Robert Francis to look at the detail of the compensation scheme that have be put forward , have access to lawyer and legal representation . this be a complicated matter . People be rightly concerned about it ; they want to get this right and they want to engage , but they also need professional legal advice to be able to do so effectively . I wonder whether the Leader of the House might be able to help in this regard . may I start by thank the right hon . Lady for the incredible work that she have do on the infected blood issue ? as well as help on a number of occasion to get important thing to happen , she have also be in communication with enormous number of people infect and affect by this and have give they confidence and comfort in the ordeal that they have go through , and I know that the whole House think that of the right hon . Lady . I hope that my word at the Dispatch Box have give assurance to those people . I be very conscious that , have hear those statement on Monday , people will want to know that this will be deliver this week . on the matter of interim payment and support scheme , which the hon . member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Deidre Brock ) mention , those thing and that work will continue , and the support scheme will , as the Paymaster General say , run into next week . I will make sure that the right hon . Lady get an update this afternoon on the specific issue that she raise . I also remind she that , when Sir Robert Francis start the compensation study , part of that initial process — even when the term of reference be be set — be ensure that those infected and affected have access to legal representation . and I do not think that Sir Robert Francis would want to progress in any other way . I will get an answer for the right hon . Lady with regard to the specific . thank you , Madame Deputy Speaker . I wish you well for the future . can the Leader of the House find time for a debate in these final day of this Parliament on protect the green belt ? not only do it protect community such as Barnet from urban sprawl , but it provide vital space for nature and habitat . nature recovery and conservation be something that I have champion throughout my time in this Parliament , and I want the opportunity to reiterate my strong commitment to that crucial environmental goal . I thank my right hon . friend for all the work that she do in this area . we Conservatives will always take care of our rural area and protect the green belt . our revise national planning policy framework make it clear that we have protection for the green belt . we have also provide hundred of million to encourage development on brownfield land , instead of green belt , include the £ 550 million brownfield housing fund and the £ 180 million brownfield land release fund . may I take this opportunity to thank she for this important work not just in her own constituency , but around the country ? I join other in wish you , Madam Deputy Speaker , all the very good for whatever come next . as an election have be call and there be little time for member who be stand down to be able to make arrangement to be here tomorrow , can I ask the Leader of the House to join I in thanking and welcome the contribution make by my hon . friend the Members for Paisley and Renfrewshire South ( Mhairi Black ) , for Falkirk ( John Mc Nally ) , for Glasgow North ( Patrick Grady ) , for Lanark and Hamilton East ( Angela Crawley ) , for Glenrothes ( Peter Grant ) , for Central Ayrshire ( Dr Whitford ) and for Dunfermline and West Fife ( Douglas Chapman ) , and my right hon . friend the Members for Ross , Skye and Lochaber ( Ian Blackford ) and for Dundee East ( Stewart Hosie ) . they have all contribute so much to this place , but far beyond that , they have contribute to our party and to the independence movement over a significant amount of time . their effort have go to great good , and I have no doubt that they will continue to do so . I thank the right hon . gentleman for use this Business Statement to get on record his thank and appreciation to all of his colleague . I wish they all well and I thank they for their service to this House . thank you for your service to this House , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I place on the record my tribute to the director and staff of the Intelligence and Security Committee for their outstanding dedication and commitment to an area that be particularly important in this difficult and dangerous international environment ? may I thank they for the work that they have do on prepare comprehensive annual report and specialist study on extreme right - wing terrorism , on the UK ' s international intelligence partnership , and on a very well - receive report on China , with a similar one on Iran to follow as soon as the redaction process be complete ? may I just bring to the attention of the Leader of the House the fact that the Committee have resolve that it will no long be under the aegis of the Cabinet Office ? the basic conflict of interest , whereby the career of the staff of a Committee that oversee body that be house in a Department be in the hand of people in that very same Department , have become unsustainable . finally , may I thank the member of the Committee from all three party and both Houses , who keep to the tradition of leave party politic at the door ? despite an unpromising start , when an attempt be make to do away with that important principle , they come together and have show complete unanimity and dedication to carry out the work of the Committee , which be necessarily not do in the public view . I be sure the whole House will join my right hon . friend in thank all who enable this very important Committee to carry out its work . it be unseen work , but it be vital . I thank he also for the output and those important report that will strengthen our democracy and protect this nation from those who would do we harm . may I also thank he for ensure that the Committee can remain properly independent , which he have safeguard with this new innovation ? although we welcome the forthcoming election , long - await Bills on smoking , leasehold , rental reform , which be desperately need , and football governance will all fall . be that not somewhat break a promise make in 2019 ? the motion that I will bring forward shortly will give we flexibility to put through all that be require before the end of this Session . the hon . Lady will know that the wash - up negotiation be still go on , so I can not say at the moment exactly which Bills will or will not be in , but we need cross - party support at this stage of the Parliament to get this legislation through . I will do all I can to make sure that the Bills that be support be in that final wash - up . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for your service , and for call I to make my last contribution in this House , after over 40 year . I also thank the staff of the House and of my European Scrutiny Committee , which I have have the honour of chairing since 2010 , and all member of the House , of whatever stripe , for their massive contribution to our democracy in this great Parliament . my Committee be look at the question of the UK ' s sovereignty in Gibraltar . the UK - EU treaty , which be under negotiation , and on the subject of which the Foreign Secretary appear before we the other day , deal with vital UK defence and Schengen border issue that cause we great concern . have the Leader of the House be make aware that the constitution of Gibraltar , include its section 47 , per section 38 of the European Union ( Withdrawal Agreement ) Act 2020 , set out specific UK sovereignty reservation regard external affair , defence , internal security and the function of the Secretary of State for Defence ? none of those must be compromise . I thank my hon . friend for his decade of service to this House and the country . the work that his Committee have do in particular be considerable . I serve on it briefly , for about three year , and in our first sitting I need a trolley to get the paper for the meeting to the relevant Committee Room . it be a huge amount of work , and we have be enormously help by his attention to detail and huge expertise in this area . on many highly technical issue , he often turn out to be right . I be aware of the issue that he raise , and have express my interest in it to the relevant Departments . he leave a great legacy in this place , and whatever the future hold , I be assure that the issue that he care deeply about — of course , in large part due to his effort , we now have opportunity and freedom to exploit , and can enjoy and protect the interest of this country — will be in good hand , and that be largely down to he . I have be contact today by action on Smoking and Health , which do important work on curb the harm of smoking and vaping . like I , it be perplexed and very disappointed that the Tobacco and Vapes Bill will apparently not progress because it be not include in the wash - up . I should not be surprised that the Government also appear to have abandon the commitment that they give I last week on ban vape advertising in sport . the Prime Minister stand in Downing Street yesterday and trumpet the Bill as his legacy , but that be absolute nonsense if it have be abandon . can the Leader of the House bring pressure to bear regard the Bill ? there be the potential to stop the terrible devastation that tobacco cause , and to curb the damage that vape be do to our environment and young people . will she do what be necessary to add it to the wash - up ? I know that the Bill be support by a large number of people in the House , and clearly the Prime Minister also feel passionately about it . I will ensure that what the hon . Lady and other have say be take into account during the wash - up . I hope that the House will be update soon . when my right hon . friend be promote to an even big job in the Cabinet after the election , will she leave a note on her desk for her successor ? unlike a previous note , it will not say that there be no more money , or anything like that ; it will concern restoration and renewal . I be her representative on the programme board . frankly , for too long we have waste time on endless sterile debate on whether we should decant . under her leadership , the programme board and the House of Commons Commission be now promote the idea of enhance maintenance around we . will she confirm that we can get on with that work , and do not need a new Act of Parliament ? the real threat to this building be fire . we have a responsibility to future generation . we have to get on with this work now . I thank my right hon . friend for all his work on the programme board and under previous governance structure to champion a pragmatic approach to restoration and renewal . obviously a huge amount need to be do in future year , but we can also get on with thing now . one product of the programme board on which he have serve be that we have project that we can do now , while increase our knowledge about how to approach such project on the estate . all the option in front of the House be much more pragmatic . they be base on a realistic timeframe , and will give people , not least the british taxpayer , confidence about the future . I , too , wish you well in the future , Madam Deputy Speaker . on 6 December last year , the Justice Secretary stand at the Dispatch Box and promise this House a debate on the Government ' s response to Bishop James Jones ' s report , " ' the patronising disposition of unaccountable power ' : a report to ensure the pain and suffering of the Hillsborough family be not repeat " . the House have to wait seven year for the Government to respond , and then fail to hold a debate in the new year , as they promise . will the Leader of the House convey to the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State the deep disappointment of the family and survivor of the Hillsborough disaster ? I hope that in the next Parliament , we will finally see a full Hillsborough law put on the statute book . I thank the hon . gentleman for get that important point on the record . I will ensure that the relevant Departments have hear what he say . I , too , pay tribute to you , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I be sure that you will be miss by many in this House . back in 2019 , it be an honour to come to this place to represent Hyndburn and Haslingden , and really push forward the Government ' s levelling - up agenda . since then , we have see over £ 55 million of levelling - up funding , a banking hub come to Great Harwood , school rebuild programme in Haslingden , and fund for Haslingden market . do the Leader of the House agree that invest in northern town need to continue to be a priority , so that we truly level up the north of England ? I congratulate my hon . friend on all her hard work and achievement for her constituent . I have visit her constituency and know that her work be appreciate by many people she represent . she be absolutely right , and have fight for the thing that will make the big difference to her constituent . I congratulate she on it . shocking figure announce yesterday show a 416 % increase in weapon and knife crime in Blackpool — the fourth - large increase in the country . violent crime have double , and public order offence be up by nearly 500 % , with neighbourhood policing cut by a drastic 33 % in my area . what will the Government do to rebuild community neighbourhood police in Blackpool and tackle the huge knife crime issue that we have ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise this important matter . knife crime devastate live , and we now have some of the tough law in the world to tackle it , with ban on particular knife , and a huge effort make by our local police . since 2019 , we have take 138 , 000 weapon off our street , and violent crime have fall by 44 % since we take office in 2010 , but there be pocket where it be still a huge issue . I commend the work that the voluntary sector be do , include the Knife Angel and many other group , many of which be lead by victim of knife crime or their family . I will ensure that the Home Office have hear what he say . I endorse the thank to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and to Mr Speaker and his other deputy . in the spirit of conviviality and equanimity that have prevail , and know from experience that member from across the House be here because they want to do the good for their constituent , I urge the Leader of the House in the national interest to arrange , even at this late stage , an urgent statement on how public procurement can serve the common good . my constituency in Lincolnshire be the food basket of Britain , make product that fill shelf and shop across the country . we really need to use public money to buy british and back Britain . I could not agree more with my right hon . friend . as he know , there have be a huge focus in our food strategy on ensure that we do that , and some of our colleague have provide additional innovation : people can now ensure that they be buy british produce when they shop at a supermarket , or order from a supermarket online . I can not promise he a statement , but I will ensure that the Department hear what he say . I thank he for be a champion of all thing british , include british produce , and for support our farmer . may I wish you a happy retirement — from this place , at least , Madam Deputy Speaker ? I be sure we will see you in many other guise in time to come . we be so grateful to our constituent for hold our foot to the fire and raise their great concern . housing injustice have be the issue at the top of my constituent ' list in York Central . however , the legislation to try to change the environment around housing do not seem to be progress . can the Leader of the House say what exactly be happen to the Renters ( Reform ) Bill , which would have a significant impact on my constituent ? furthermore , after my championing of my short - term and holiday - let accommodation ( licensing ) Bill , what be happen to the regulation to put control on Airbnbs and other short - term holiday let ? those regulation be promise by this summer , and as we enter the holiday season , 2 , 000 property in my city be be use for holiday home , as oppose to family home . the hon . Lady mention some very important legislation , and she know that it will be partly the subject of the negotiation that be go on . I hope to be able to update she soon . I will ask the Department to provide her office with an update on the regulation , so that she know where the Department be in that process . may I associate myself with early remark about your pende retirement , Madam Deputy Speaker ? ever since I first rise to speak from this very spot 14 year ago , I have try to champion my constituency in this place . the impending Dissolution bring to mind unfinished business . in that light , may I raise with my right hon . friend the Leader of the House again the tragic and brutal murder of young Thomas Roberts on the Old Christchurch Road in my constituency , just over two and a half year ago ? the perpetrator of that murder should never have be in the United Kingdom . he be now rightly serve life behind bar . he lie about his age : he say he be 14 when he be in fact 18 , and he be place in a secondary school in my constituency . he be report to social service and the police , but little action be take . there be a litany of failure by public institution , lead to that senseless and needless murder two and a half year ago . reply to an Adjournment debate , the then Minister for the Home Office , my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , tell I he could not go into the detail while a Home Office investigation be proceed . twice now the Home Office have refuse to publish even the headline finding of the inquiry that it commission . I speak recently to Thomas ' s father Philip , who do not understand why internal process be prevent the Home Office from bring into the public domain the finding of that report , what lesson have be learn and which individual will be hold to account . even at 10 minute to midnight in this Parliament , can my right hon . friend the Leader of the House think of any mechanism to draw the matter to the attention of the Home Office ? I hope that I and other member will not let it go in the next Parliament . I thank my right hon . friend for all the work he be do on behalf of Thomas and his family . it be a tragic situation , with layer on layer of failure lead to an appalling outcome . I will write to the Home Office follow this business statement and ask that a Minister or senior official update my right hon . friend on the situation . I will do all I can in the remainder of this Parliament to help he make progress on this extremely important matter , as I know be necessary to bring some comfort to Thomas ' s family . I take this opportunity to wish you well for the future , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I raise with the Leader of the House the issue of the global ocean treaty ? the paper to ensure ratification of that treaty , which would bring about the protection of 30 % of the world ' s ocean by 2030 , be lay before Parliament a year ago . the treaty be support by all party in the House , obviously include the Government , and the legislation could go through very quickly in the wash - up . that would allow we to join other nation that have ratify the treaty , and help to bring it into international law . it would be a step towards reduce pollution in our ocean , and an opportunity to say thank you to the many environmental group , include Greenpeace , that have do so much campaigning to make sure that the law come about , and against pollution go into our ocean from our privatised water company , which pour far too much sewage into the sea . can the Leader of the House give we some hope that legislation will be pass quickly during the wash - up , to hasten progress on protect the world ' s ocean ? this be a matter close to my heart . my own campaign staff and the conservative Friends of the Ocean have campaign particularly on this issue . what be need to ensure that our river and sea be clean be a massive investment in infrastructure — the large investment in infrastructure and the large infrastructure project of its kind in the world . that be what be take place in the United Kingdom because of this Conservative Government , and in short order we will have eradicate storm overflow . the public can follow that work : it be be track on the Water UK website and they can see all the project that be under way and contribute to that goal . I will certainly ensure that the right hon . Gentleman ' s concern have be hear . I do not think it be necessary for the treaty to be part of the wash - up , but it will clearly be an issue for the new Parliament and I shall ensure that people have hear what he have say . before I hand over to the Chairman of Ways and Means , may I thank right hon . and hon . member for the very kind word they have say during this business statement ? it will obviously be the last business statement that I will be in the Chair for . it be always a highlight of the week to see colleague raise a dizzying array of concern on behalf of their constituent and a great opportunity for they to pursue the cause in which they believe . thank you very much for everything you have say , and I particularly thank those colleague who have praise our very hard - work staff member in the House . it be goodbye from I and it be goodbye from she . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . before you take the Chair , numerous member pay tribute to the right hon . member for Doncaster Central ( Dame Rosie Winterton ) . I have be look at the Twitter machine — something that would not have be allow when I be first elect to this place — and I have see that you , Madam Deputy Speaker , have also announce you be leave the House of Commons when we dissolve . may I be the first to wish you all happiness and success and thank you for your many year of service to this Parliament ? thank you very much indeed . I will not say too much in reply , lest the tear come back to my eye again . my fellow Madam Deputy Speaker and I have carry out quite a double act these last few year . I will miss all of you , and she , very much indeed . thank you . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I feel it be incumbent on I to say , " there ' s nothing like a Dame . " I be very grateful to both of you in a personal regard . you have always help I enormously , mainly through your sense of style , and I hope the House will continue to benefit from your legacy in that regard . thank you very much . I suppose it could be say , " what ' s bad than encounter a Dame ? encounter two dame together ! " on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . as a fellow Doncaster MP , it be only right that I thank Madam Deputy Speaker , the right hon . member for Doncaster Central ( Dame Rosie Winterton ) , for all her hard work , which be very much appreciated . I know that it must have be difficult for she sometimes to listen to a Conservative Member of Parliament , but throughout my time in this place , she have be nothing but professional and fair in the Chair , so I thank she on my behalf and that of the people of Doncaster . thank you . that be very nice . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . yesterday in the House , every single Member be move by the account of my hon . friend the Member for South Thanet ( Craig Mackinlay ) about the extraordinary challenge that he have face and overcome , but many member of this House face extraordinary challenge , include with their health . those challenge be often invisible — know to we but not beyond this place . you , Madam Deputy Speaker , have be a model , as someone who have face such challenge , overcome they and return to this House to preside with dignity and grace . it have be a great pleasure to be in the House for the whole time that you have be here . I hope to continue , and I hope that I can follow your example as I do . thank you very much indeed , Sir John , my dear friend of 27 year . Doesn ' t time fly when you be enjoy yourself ? on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I also add my thank to you and the other Madam Deputy Speaker ? you have always be enormously kind to I . I know that I be often quite eager to make a contribution , and you have always do your good to ensure that that happen . I suspect that , because of my language and the way I speak at 100 mile an hour , it may not always be possible to know exactly what the word be , but I know that you understand , Madam Deputy Speaker , give that we be gaelic cousin — you be scottish and I be northern Irish , so we share that interest . I be very pleased to find out that you be a Rangers supporter . next year will be our year , and I hope that we will remember it more than most . I will miss you and the other Madam Deputy Speaker . thank you very much for keep I right , as well as for tell I off the odd time as well — I probably need it . the hon . Gentleman speak in this House more than anyone — possibly more than everyone else put together — but it be always a pleasure to hear what he say , and I thank he very much for his kind comment . I think that I have well not take any further point of order lest we deflect from the business statement and the work that the Leader of the House have to do . I call Bob Blackman . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I pay tribute to you and Dame Rosie for your service to the House , which have be long and very valuable . colleague be ask for item to be deal with in the wash - up , so may I give a big push to my private Member ' s Bill ? the Zoological Society of London ( Leases ) Bill , be currently in the Lords , where it have be give its Second reading , have pass unopposed and unamended in this place . if we could get it into statute , everyone would be grateful . as we approach the 4 July election , it be fair to say that the voter of this country have a choice . in exercise that choice , they can look to Wales , where Labour have be in power and a disaster , and to Scotland , where the SNP have be in power and another disaster , but we in London can look even close at what it have be like to live under the Labour Mayor . I could go through a litany of his disaster , but his late ruse to improve the air quality in London be to order electric bus from China , even though suitable bus be available in this country and would provide job for people here . will my right hon . friend set out the choice that people will have come 4 July ? I will ensure that all those involve in wash - up have hear what my hon . friend have say about his private Member ' s Bill , which I know be popular and well support . I thank he for all his work on it . with regard to the Mayor of London ' s choice to purchase bus from China , I think it be consistent with Labour ' s policy towards green energy , the main beneficiary of which do appear to be China . I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and the other Madam Deputy Speaker , the right hon . member for Doncaster Central ( Dame Rosie Winterton ) . you have both generally deal with my request with pragmatism and kindness , unless I deserve otherwise . the medium Bill be well support across the House . it be not perfect , but a huge number of people do a huge amount of work to get it through . the Government ' s timetable for Committee stage be incredibly tight , and Committee member pool together and work incredibly hard on it . today , we have have a letter from those in charge of Channel 4 , BBC , STV and MG Alba , among other , make clear the importance of the Bill . the last medium Bill be pass when teletext be still cut edge , so we really need this Media Bill to go through . in her discussion about wash - up , I urge the Leader of the House to stress the Bill ' s importance for medium organisation , particularly those in broadcast medium . I believe that there be significant cross - party support for the Bill , particularly as it relate to broadcasting and on - demand radio service . it be a very important Bill , and I know that a huge amount of work have be do by member on both side of the House . it be await its Third reading in the House of Lords . I can not tell the hon . Lady at the moment , but I hope that the House will soon be update about all the Bills that can be bring forward . I wish you all the very good in your future life , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank the Leader of the House for her weekly feast of " Penny TV " every Thursday , which keep many colleague and constituent inspire and enthuse . will she join I in pay tribute to all those who be leave this place at the end of this Parliament by agree that the privilege of serve in Westminster be , in reality , about good people work together by consensus and as a team to make the country a well place , and do their very good under huge pressure ? I thank my hon . friend for his kind word . all the issue raise in these session be very important , but so be morale , and I hope that we have all contribute to it in these session . he be right that these session quite often show the good of this House , not just this week but in previous week . I hope that that encourage people to consider whether they might be able to serve in this place . I would be remiss if I do not thank member of the all - party group on post office for the huge support that they have give I in my time as chair . I thank especially the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) , the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) — who I do not think be a member but have be a huge help to I in my time — and the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) . the APPG be a prime example of cross - party work in this place . I can not go without mention Lord Arbuthnot , who have seek to amend the Post Office ( Horizon System ) offence Bill during its passage through the other place . he introduce I to Sir Wyn Williams , who chair the inquiry . all member — I especially — will follow what be happen closely . Paula Vennells , the former chief executive officer , face question yesterday — and will again today and tomorrow — and some of the absolutely awful thing come out should make we all greet . I lose my fight in this place to have Scotland include in the Horizon Bill , but I be sure that it will go through , as it be include in wash - up , for which I be grateful . I assure scottish postmaster who be affect and have not yet be exonerate that once the Bill be officially pass in this Parliament , the Post Office ( Horizon System ) Offences ( Scotland ) Bill will go through the Scottish Parliament , although they may have to wait a day or two , because that be how Parliaments work . I thank the Leader of the House for the help she have give I personally when I have be at she every week on a certain topic . I just add that what be say in this place be not personal , and from my point of view , it never have be . I thank the hon . Lady for all the work she have do on many issue , but in particular on the matter of the Post Office , and for get she thank to her colleague on record today — chief among they my noble Friend Lord Arbuthnot , who have be a fierce champion for all those who fall victim to the Horizon scandal . she will know that Scotland need to legislate on this issue , and I be glad that she have be able to get on record some comfort about the timeframe once the Bill receive Royal Assent here and what will follow in Scotland , for the benefit of those who may be watch . I also thank she for the fact that she have never play the man , and always the ball , which be very much appreciate by all member of this House . may I express my deep sadness at hear that you be no long go to be in this place , Madam Deputy Speaker ? you have be formidable , yet incredibly kind , and for I personally you have be a mentor and a friend , so thank you . I feel very sad that you be move on ; I will leave further remark for private , before I get teary myself . on that note , will my right hon . friend the Leader of the House join I in thank Rev . Tony Rindl , the current Vicar of Watford , for his many year of service to our town of Watford before he move to new pasture in the come month ? he have be an incredible force for the town — a force for good , as one might imagine — and over the past year or so , I have be fortunate to spend 48 hour with he , during which we shadow each other . I spend time in St Mary ' s church , see the work that he do there , and I bring he to Parliament and we spend time here so that he could see what I be do in this place . we realise our commonality of purpose in serve the community . he have be an incredible advocate for those who be vulnerable in our town , and have make a very considerable contribution to Watford . he will be sorely miss , so I hope my right hon . friend will join I in thank he and wish he well in his new role . I be sure the whole House join my hon . friend in what he have say about Rev . Tony Rindl . we all wish he well . I thank the Leader of the House for her very kind comment early , which be much appreciated . as you know , Madam Deputy Speaker , and as the Leader of the House and other in this House know , as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on international freedom of religion or belief , each week I bring to the attention of the Leader of the House human right issue and persecution across the world . in the APPG , we speak up for those with christian faith , those with other faith and those with no faith . it be really important to have that opportunity , and the Leader of the House always make sure that the relevant Minister be make aware of the issue . I almost always get a letter from the Minister to reassure I and let I know what be happen , so I thank the Leader of the House very much for that . today , I will take this last opportunity to ask a question , and speak on the threat to religious diversity and inclusion in Nepal . amid political unrest in the country , many Hindu nationalist have be actively seek radical governmental change that would lead to Nepal become a Hindu nationalist state , mean that those with christian faith and other ethnic minority will be persecute , ostracise and discriminate against . do the Leader of the House agree that it be in his Majesty ' s Government ' s interest to take a firm stand against institutionalised religious or belief discrimination anywhere in the world , include in state that be privy to the UN ' s universal declaration of human right , which Nepal have ratify ? it be for those people that I bring these issue to the attention of the House every week , and every week , the Leader of the House take they forward to the next stage . I thank the hon . gentleman for his kind word and his very important question . this week will be no exception : I will make sure that the Foreign Office hear what he have say . the relationship we have with Nepal be an important one , and we want to make sure that human right be be uphold . Madam Deputy Speaker , may I join those who have say kind word ? you , the other Deputy Speakers , and Mr Speaker have make sure that when I have be overly zealous , I have be put down to the bottom of the list . I have now be call before the very end of question , so it seem that the penny have finally drop on that front . we have have a lot of funding for Stoke - on - Trent North , Kidsgrove and Talke , but it would be remiss of I not to have one more go — one more bid to make sure we get one more important piece of funding for the great mother town of Burslem , where I have be work with Port Vale football club and Stoke - on - Trent College . we want the levelling - up partnership to be enact in that great town . we want to see Sproson Park get a new special educational need and disability playground , fence with multi - sport field , a caf é and classroom for Port Vale ' s exciting future England talent , such as Baylee Dipepa , who have just be draft into the England under - 17s team for the Euros championship . we also want an advanced skill centre at Stoke - on - Trent College ' s Burslem campus , equip the next generation with the skill we need for the job and technology of the future . sadly , there be not time for another Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities Question Time , so I hope the Leader of the House will write to the relevant Minister to lend her support and say that that bid must be approve before we dissolve Parliament , so that the people of Burslem get that long - overdue investment in their great town . I thank my hon . friend , and congratulate he on all he have achieve for his constituency . he be an absolute champion — although , as we have establish , not always a well - behave one in this Chamber . I will certainly make sure I do all I can to assist he in get something far , and it be a great credit to he that on the penultimate sit day of this Parliament , he be still fight for his constituent . thank you for your service , Madam Deputy Speaker , and for all the support you have give I , as well as — I be sure — all new by - election winner in this Parliament and previous one . the Government have stand four - square behind my vision to make the city of Southend safe , healthy and wealthy for all . they have ban nitrous oxide , tackle zombie knife , provide £ 180 million for south Essex hospital , and approve the first new clam fishery in the Thames estuary for century . however , can I ask the Leader of the House to put her shoulder firmly behind the wheel to get the Pet Abduction Bill through wash - up and on to our statute book ? my no . 1 mission be to build on Sir David ' s legacy . the Pet Abduction Bill be a big part of that , and I would like to end this Parliament as I begin it , by say that if we get that Bill on to the statute book , Sir David ' s light remain . I thank my hon . friend , and congratulate she on all that she have do for her constituency . I may have dream this , but I think my hon . friend recently abseil down something very tall dress as Wonder Woman . I would like to suggest to she that she campaign over the next six week as Wonder Woman , but I have some reluctance about do so , because she might actually go through with it . my hon . friend have do a huge amount for her constituency , take forward our dear , late colleague David ' s legacy on so many thing : not just the status of Southend , but the Music Man Project and many other fantastic local organisation . the Pet Abduction Bill will be part of the negotiation that be go on , but we have manage to get many manifesto commitment with regard to animal welfare over the line , and I will do my good to ensure that they all do so . Madam Deputy Speaker , I wish you and all colleague who be either stand down voluntarily , or be advise to do so by our constituent , very happy year outside this House . as I come towards the statutory end of six year as chairman of the Westminster Foundation for Democracy , I thank our patron Mr Speaker for his support , and all fellow cross - party governor over the year for their help in promote , support and shape the strategy of that great british democracy organisation , which have wonderful staff from , and in , many country around the world . whatever our difference , we be all strong believer in democracy , and we should go on share our success and failure around the world for decade to come . can I also highlight to the Leader of the House the importance of the Criminal Justice Bill , not least the fact that if it go through , spike will be a criminal offence under the law for the first time ever ? lastly , will my right hon . friend join I in offer her support — perhaps everyone in the House could do so — to Gloucester Rugby in the final tomorrow of the European Challenge cup against the South African Hollywoodbets Sharks ? will she make sure that official in the Department for Culture , Media and Sport and Sport England be work hard to resolve the issue of the covid loan , so that great british rugby club such as Gloucester Rugby , which be in its 51st year , can go into next season financially secure ? I thank my hon . friend for all the work he have do over the many year for the Westminster Foundation for Democracy — an organisation with which we be all familiar and with which many member have work — to ensure that democracy be strong in many place around the world . of course , we have an opportunity over the next few week to demonstrate how well election can be do and how well we can conduct ourselves during the course of an election . I assure he that I will ensure that those who need to hear will have hear what he have say about the Criminal Justice Bill , and I will also write to DCMS on his behalf about the loan issue . Madam Deputy Speaker , you have give great service to this House . I alert the other Madam Deputy Speaker to the fact that I would mention somebody else who have do that . we have just arrive at the point where Shirley Tovell in my team have be work for member of this House for 55 year . [ hon . member : " wow ! " ] she have be work for the people of Harborough , Oadby and Wigston since 1992 . like you , Madam Deputy Speaker , she be incredibly hard work and have wonderful energy , so I think I would pay tribute to she in this House . will the Leader of the House allow a debate on and talk to the Department for Transport about the crucial issue of bridge closure during rail electrification work ? I lobby for the extension of rail electrification through Harborough up to Wigston at an early stage , and we be now get the whole of the midland main line electrify , which be a wonderful investment that make train quieter , green , cheap and fast . it be a great thing , but the bridge closure during it have be disruptive . I be chase Network Rail about sort out a massive puddle it have create at the end of a bridge at Kibworth . in Newton Lane , a bridge have be shut for too long . I have have endless meeting , and it be finally open next week . most importantly , I organise a meeting about the lesson learn , and the first place we need to learn those lesson relate to Spion Kop bridge , which be a vital artery between Wigston and South Wigston in my constituency . the next stage of the electrification work will take the wire under that bridge , and Network Rail be look at the different option . there be option that involve the bridge closing , and there be potentially more expensive option that could keep it open . will the Leader of the House write to the Department for Transport about that ? the project be currently ahead of schedule and under budget , so let we use some of that resource to do whatever it take to stop that bridge closing , as it would be a disaster if it shut . will she please write to the Prime Minister and the Department for Transport about this , so that we do not have to shut Spion Kop bridge ? I will absolutely do what my hon . friend ask — I shall do that this afternoon — and I thank he for the diligence with which he be approach this issue for his constituent , even on the penultimate sit day of this Parliament . when my hon . Friend mention his colleague Shirley and her incredible decade of service to this House , there be an audible noise of support in acknowledge that huge achievement and the depth of her duty to this place and to his constituency . I associate myself with the very justifiable compliment that have be pay to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for your work in this place . would the Leader of the House be good enough to make representation for my private Member ' s Bill , the Special Envoy for Freedom of Religion or Belief Bill , to be include in the wash - up business to be consider tomorrow in the other place ? the Bill be fortunate to have strong support from Ministers , include the Foreign Secretary , to be a manifesto commitment and to have have very strong cross - party support during the progress on and completion of its stage in this place . I be confident it have support from every party and , in fact , I do not know of a single member in this place who oppose the Bill . its aim be to do good for the most disadvantaged and persecute across the world , so I thank all those who have support it , not forget — how could I ? — the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , with his endure and heartfelt support not only for this Bill , but for all those across the world who suffer on account of their religion or belief . he truly be , and I hope will continue to be , a voice for the voiceless in this place . I will certainly make sure that those involve in the wash - up negotiation have hear what my hon . friend have say . I do understand how well support the Bill be . I take this opportunity to thank my hon . friend for all she have do in this Parliament to promote religious freedom . again , along with many member from across the House , she have do not just this place but many nation and many people around the world a huge service . first , let I put on the record my thank to you , Madam Deputy Speaker . you be very kind to I when I first enter this place , and it have not be forget . I would also like to thank my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) for his help over the past few year , and for all the year he have put in here . it have be the great honour to represent the people of Doncaster , and I hope they will return I to represent the people of Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) , because Axholme be part of that seat at the moment , and when I talk to people on the doorstep , they speak very highly of he , so I would like to put on record my thank to he . do the Leader of the House agree that Doncaster have be give huge amount of money and huge support from this Conservative Government ? the two thing I have campaign on most be for a new hospital and for Doncaster airport to open again . do she agree that the good way of achieve those two goal , and get people fly from Doncaster airport once more , be to elect a Conservative Member of Parliament for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ? I have many diligent colleague , but I think my hon . friend be one of the most determined champion for his local community . I know that he have manage to get the airport to reopen , and that a 125 - year lease be sign in March . he have a new university technical college — it open a few year ago — which I know be provide a new route for young people to keep they in education and provide they with an incredible start to very exciting career . he have new bus route , he have sort out fly - tipping and I know personally how hard he have work to get money into local high street . he have deliver ten of million for local town and levelling - up project , as well as for many other . I think his constituent be in good hand , and I hope he get the opportunity to do much more for they . I congratulate he on all that he have do . Madam Deputy Speaker , may I add my voice to those across the House in thank you for your service ? my right hon . friend the Leader of the House may know that I have an interest in steel . I be pleased to tell she that , after four and a half year of hard work and support from this Government , when I go home tomorrow there will still be a steelwork in my home town of Scunthorpe , and that steelwork will still be make the fine steel in the world . however , she will know that negotiation be ongoing between industry and Government for further support . can she say anything in general term about whether such conversation between Departments and the industry will continue over the come week ? our party have long have an iron lady , and it now have a steel lady . I congratulate she on all her achievement , not just those her constituent will benefit from in keep that vital industry go — it be vital for the economic wellbeing of her constituent — but the service she have do to the nation in retain this incredibly important sovereign capability and the wide steel industry . I will ensure that she get an update on progress on the specific point she raise . of course , no new policy decision will be take during the election period or purdah , but the Government be of course still go and we will be look out for her constituency ' s interest . I will be the last Member of Parliament for Sedgefield , but I hope to be the first Member of Parliament for Newton Aycliffe and Spennymoor . like many colleague , I would like thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and your colleague for welcome I to this place . he be not in the Chamber at the moment , but the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) be a perfect example of cross - party working and engage with people , and I really thank he for that . could I encourage any possible progress on the Prison Media Bill , lead by my hon . friend the Member for South Ribble ( Katherine Fletcher ) , to restrict social medium access in prison , which would give some comfort to my constituent Zoey McGill , who sadly lose her son to knife crime ? we have have strong decision and clear direction from the Prime Minister since he come into post , enable the Leader of the House to manage business particularly well . how do she think business question would survive in the event of a Labour Government , because with the speed at which the right hon . and learn Member for Holborn and St Pancras ( Keir Starmer ) change his mind , we might need they daily ? I congratulate my hon . friend on all that he have achieve for his current constituency . I hope that he have the opportunity to continue serve , because he do a fantastic job for his constituent and be one of the hard work member in this place . I also thank he for his kind word about cross - party working . a lot of good be do on that basis in this place , although it rarely get a lot of attention , so I be glad that he have shine a spotlight on it this afternoon . he be right that the prospect of Labour be at the helm during business question be not something I wish to contemplate , which be why I will do everything I can over the next six week to ensure continuity on this side of the Dispatch Box . I call Danny Kruger . my sincere thank to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and to all member who be step down , particularly my great friend the hon . member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) , to whom , more than any other individual , this country owe the restoration of parliamentary sovereignty , and there can be no great legacy for an MP . it be very good news that inflation be come down , particularly because of global energy price , but business energy cost remain high for many of our constituent . in particular , one agricultural business in my constituency be face an extraordinary rise in the standing charge it have to pay : it have to pay £ 32 , 000 before it even start to pay for electricity , and the electricity itself will cost only £ 12 , 000 . the Government , commendably , be ask Ofgem to look at the impact of stand charge on household consumer , but will the Leader of the House ask the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero to request that Ofgem also look at the impact on business ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this matter , and I will certainly write to the Department and ask that it make that request to Ofgem . I remind colleague that clearly people will want casework and support for constituent and business to continue . I know that Ofgem be particularly interested in the practice of individual supplier , so I would encourage my hon . friend to do that . for as long as I can , I will be able to assist hon . member in that . and the prize for patience and perseverance go to Robin Millar . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and thank you also for your kind and carefully choose word to I at different time through this Parliament ; they have be much appreciated . the contribution in this Chamber over the past day or so have give I cause to reflect that each of we owe our place here not just to desire and effort , but actually to the mercy of God as well . when I be grow up in north Wales , it be with an unspoken expectation that I would have to leave in order to find a job , build a career and make something of myself . but now , after four year , I can say that the conservative mps in north Wales have manage to secure a freeport in Ynys M ô n and an investment zone in Wrexham , both of which will bring new business , new technology and new job to north Wales . we have also secure £ 1 billion for investment in the north Wales main line , which will connect family to each other and people to business , and connect to more investment and even to public service across the border . and of course yesterday we hear that there will be a nuclear future in Wylfa , which will bring thousand of job and the creation of green energy to north Wales . do my right hon . friend agree that , give that record of deliver for the people of north Wales over the past four year , young people there can now look to a future where they can develop the skill they need for the job they want , and build the home and make the place for themselves that they deserve in north Wales ? my hon . friend be absolutely right , and I congratulate he on the role he have play in secure the investment and opportunity for his constituent and for Wales more widely . I know that he have also bring in a long - term plan for town , with up to £ 20 million for his local area , and of course there be £ 5 million for the agrifood launchpad . in addition to the rail investment he mention , we have two new investment zone for Wales , as well as the extension of the exist zone project from five to 10 year and an additional £ 111 million for round 3 levelling - up project support a further seven project . over £ 1 . 5 billion of levelling - up funding have be allocate to Wales since the start of the current spending review . he have be involve in all of that . he be a huge champion for Wales and for his constituency , and I wish he good luck in the come week . point of Order 2 . 25 pm on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . when I speak early , you have not yet announce that you will stand down , so I do not have the opportunity to thank you enormously for be such a wonderful Deputy Speaker . you be formidable , you be fair , and you offer this House a great deal of humour and good interjection . you will not have hear I say early that I very much respect your style ; you , I , the Leader of the House and the other Madam Deputy Speaker all share a love for get our hair do nicely , so thank you very much for that inspiration . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I , too , wish to pay tribute to you and offer you immense thank for be such a wonderful colleague . People know you for many thing : you be formidable in the Chair , and you be an incredibly stylish and generous individual . I will share just one instance with hon . member . in the week of the late queen ' s death , I have arrive on Monday as a junior Trade Minister with enough clothe for four day . I do not have a home in London and be unable to go back to Portsmouth , so I have no clothe to wear , let alone anything black . it be thank to your initiative and kindness that I be dress for the Accession Council — your hairband , in particular , become a global viral sensation . it be just one example of your care for all of we . thank you also for be a role model for woman in this place . I wish you well . thank you very much indeed — the tear be definitely come now . who would have know of our skill in millinery , but it be amazing what one have to turn one ' s hand to in this place , especially in an emergency . People see the tip of the iceberg ; they have no idea how much be go on underneath the surface . it be very difficult to leave a job that one love . for I , be Chairman of Ways and Means be the tip of my iceberg , or the summit of my Everest — something like that . as far as I be concern , it be the good job in the world , and it be very difficult to leave . I be also honour to have serve the people of Epping Forest for 27 year . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] thank you . I would like it to be think that I be 20 when I start , but that be not quite correct . but 27 year have flash by and this be very difficult ; I guess that be why it take I until 1 o ' clock today to tell people I will not be come back after the election . but the time come when the right thing to do be stand aside and give other the opportunity that I have be so fortunate to have . I be very touch by everything that everyone have say today — and I will stop now in case the tear come . thank you . bill present Prime Minister ( Nomination ) and Cabinet ( Appointment ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Patrick Grady , support by David Linden , Marion Fellows , Alison Thewliss , Kirsty Blackman , Kirsten Oswald , Gavin Newlands , Alan Brown , Chris Stephens , Carol Monaghan and Owen Thompson , present a Bill to make provision for the House of Commons to nominate the Prime Minister and approve appointment to the Cabinet ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 24 May , and to be print ( Bill 226 ) . Scotland ( Independence ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Patrick Grady , support by David Linden , Marion Fellows , Alison Thewliss , Kirsty Blackman , Kirsten Oswald , Gavin Newlands , Alan Brown , Chris Stephens , Carol Monaghan and Owen Thompson , present a Bill to make provision for the dissolution of the Union between Scotland and the rest of the United Kingdom ; to make provision for the transfer of power from the UK Parliament to the Scottish Parliament ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Thursday 4 July , and to be print ( Bill 227 ) . oh dear ! I have stand here for 10 and a half year not say what I think , but the hon . member for Glasgow North ( Patrick Grady ) know very well what I think of that Bill . business of the House Motion make , and question propose , House to sit on Friday 24 May ( 1 ) that , notwithstanding the Order of 30 January 2024 ( Adjournment ( February , Easter , May Bank Holiday and Whitsun Recesses ) ) , the House shall meet on Friday 24 May at 9 . 30 am . order to make provision about Thursday 23 May and Friday 24 May ( 2 ) that paragraph ( 3 ) to ( 13 ) shall apply to today ' s sit and to the sitting on Friday 24 May . government business to have precedence ( 3 ) notwithstanding anything in Standing Order No . 14 , government business shall have precedence . deferred division ( 4 ) Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply . motion by minister ( 5 ) no notice shall be require of any Motion make by a Minister of the Crown . ( 6 ) any Motion make by a Minister of the Crown may be proceed with , though oppose , after the moment of interruption and shall not be interrupt under any Standing Order relate to the sitting of the House . ( 7 ) no Motion shall be make , except by a Minister of the Crown , to alter the order in which proceeding on a Bill be take , to recommit a Bill or to vary or supplement the provision of this order . ( 8 ) such a motion may be consider forthwith without any question be put ; and any proceeding interrupt for that purpose shall be suspend accordingly . ( 9 ) the question on such a motion shall be put forthwith ; and any proceeding suspend under paragraph ( 7 ) shall thereupon be resume . consideration of Lords amendment ( 10 ) proceeding on Lords Amendments or any subsequent Lords Message in respect of any Bill may be consider forthwith without any further question be put . ( 11 ) such proceeding shall be bring to a conclusion ( unless already conclude ) one hour after — ( a ) the commencement of those proceeding , or ( b ) if early , the commencement of any proceeding in relation to the Bill concern on a Money motion , Ways and Means motion , Procedure motion or motion to alter the order in which proceeding on or in respect of the Bill be consider . ( 12 ) stand to shall apply to such proceeding as if paragraph ( 11 ) be a provision of a programme order . private business ( 13 ) no private business may be consider after this order have be agree . emergency debate ( 14 ) the start of any emergency debate under Standing Order No . 24 ( emergency debate ) to be hold at today ' s sit shall be postpone until the conclusion of government business ; and no such debate shall be hold at the sitting on Friday 24 May . urgent business on Friday ( 15 ) that at the sitting on Friday 24 May , notwithstanding Standing Order No . 11 ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) , urgent question and statement may be take before the commencement of public business . close of business ( 16 ) that at today ' s sit , the Speaker shall not adjourn the House until any message from the Lords have be receive and any Committee to draw up Reasons have report . ( 17 ) that at the sitting on Friday 24 May , the Speaker shall not adjourn the House until a message have be receive from the Lords Commissioners . — ( Penny Mordaunt . ) it be important that the motion be air and that the detail of what be happen today be put formally on the record . the wash - up be an important part of the United Kingdom ' s strange constitutional practice , but the decision of the Prime Minister to call a snap election in the way that he do yesterday have mean an incredibly truncate wash - up and a very short period before Dissolution . he seem to have do that without very much consideration of the impact it will have on the mechanism , procedure and people of this House that try to make everything run relatively smoothly . the Prime Minister also appear to have make the decision , frankly , without much consideration of the impact it will have in Scotland on many of the expected electoral mechanism , such as the staff who run election , who might have expect to be on their holiday . the room we use for our polling place in school and so on would also not generally be expect to be open . it be a bit unfortunate that the Government be take this option , when they could have take a little long . there be no reason not to have a slightly long Dissolution period or a slightly long wash - up for the whole of next week , which would have allow for much more of the stall legislation — very good legislation in some case , particularly the private Members ' Bills — to come forward . that legislation will now not be able to progress , include the two Bills I have just present , which I be sure the House would have welcome the opportunity to debate at great length . it be important that that be put on the record before the House simply approve the motion that the Leader of the House have move . with a little of your indulgence , Madam Deputy Speaker , I thank you for all your service to the House . many of we in the SNP have enjoy someone with scottish heritage and an understanding of Scotland ' s place in the world be in the Chair during our time here . it have be a privilege to represent people in Glasgow North for the past nine year . I be grateful to all my staff , the staff here in the House , and all my colleague and staff in the Scottish National party . in Malawi , where I spend time , we have a tradition of ask forgiveness when we take leave of a place from anyone who might have be offend or hurt in any way during our time in that place , so I do that today . for now , I wish all my colleague who be stand to be very blessed , but for I , Caledonia be call , and so I be go home . in all sincerity , may I wish the hon . Gentleman well ? it would not be a Thursday without a little bit of argy - bargy with the SNP . I be sorry that the First Minister will not be able to go to the Dordogne over the next couple of week , but I gently remind the SNP that a former First Minister try to hold a referendum during the October school holiday and be only thwart in do so by this Government in the High Court . I be glad that this motion be support to enable we to get as much legislation through as we can . question put and agree to . Finance ( no . 2 ) Bill ( Programme ) ( no . 2 ) order , that the order of 17 April 2024 ( Finance ( no . 2 ) bill : Programme ) be varied as follow : ( 1 ) paragraph ( 8 ) and ( 9 ) of the order shall be omit . ( 2 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion two hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Motion for this order . ( 3 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion three hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Motion for this order . — ( Paul Holmes . ) finance ( no . 2 ) Bill Bill , not amend in the Committee and in the Public Bill Committee , consider . third read I beg to move , that the Bill now be read the third time . may I take the opportunity to thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and the other Madam Deputy Speaker for your professionalism , kindness and robustness in this place ? you will be sorely miss , and I express my appreciation to all those who have announce that they will be stand down at this election and thank they for their service in this House . I think I speak for everybody when I say that everybody who come into this place do so with very positive motivation , because they want to make the world a well place for their child and grandchild . that may sound trite , but it be a motivation we all share . we may disagree on the route to achieve that , but anybody who come into this place do so with incredible professionalism , and we should all thank they for that service . move on to the politic and policy of today , this Bill help to deliver the priority of the Prime Minister and the Government follow the autumn statement and the spring Budget . the economy have vastly improve . it be grow again . real wage be increase and , as we find out this week , inflation be down to its low figure in nearly three year . the Finance Bill build on that economic improvement by reward work , encourage investment in our economy and boost home ownership . as the two recent fiscal event outline , we have reward work by make national insurance tax cut . some 27 million employee will get an average tax cut of £ 900 a year , and 2 million self - employ people will get a tax cut average £ 700 . that be the large ever cut to employee and self - employ national insurance , and this Bill further the work do on rewarding work by increase the high income child benefit charge threshold from £ 50 , 000 to £ 60 , 000 . in addition , the rate of the charge will be halve , so that child benefit be not repay in full until someone earn £ 80 , 000 , take 170 , 000 family out of pay this tax charge . some 485 , 000 family will benefit by an average of £ 1 , 260 from these child benefit change . I put on record my thank to the Minister and the Government for that change . it be a policy that my party and I have pursue over a number of year . the Government take it on board and they be very kindly change the law . I thank the Minister , but also the Government , because it be one of the thing that we can put to our constituent , include my constituent in Strangford , and say , " here be delivery of what you ask for . here be what we do . " I thank the hon . gentleman for his gracious and pertinent intervention , as ever . I thank he and all those who have campaign for this change , because we know it will make a difference to the budget of many household across the country in what we recognise be still challenge time . the Bill will drive investment in the economy through various measure , include additional support for our world - lead creative industry , and we be make tax relief for theatre , orchestra , museum and gallery permanent , at a rate of 45 % for tour theatre , museum , gallery and touring production , 40 % for non - tour production and 45 % for orchestra . that will ensure that our creative industry have the support they need after the unprecedented economic shock of the pandemic . we will far support the UK ' s independent film sector through a new UK independent film tax credit , at a rate of 53 % for film with low budget . that will support the production of UK independent film and the incubation of UK talent . our creative sector be vital to our national life , and the Government be commit to support UK business in the sector . this be also a Bill that will boost transaction in the housing market . it will cut the high rate of capital gain tax on residential property from 28 % to 24 % , encourage landlord and second home owner to sell their property , which would in fact increase revenue because there would be more transaction . that will make more home available to purchase for a variety of buyer , include , of course , first - time buyer . we need to ensure that the property system be fit for purpose . the Government be clear that where policy be not meet their objective , we will take clear and decisive action . that be why we be abolish multiple dwelling relief — a bulk purchase relief in the stamp duty land tax regime — from 1 June 2024 . abolition follow an external evaluation that find no strong evidence that the relief be meet its original objective of support investment in the private rent sector . his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs have record many instance of abuse and attempt abuse . we be amend the rule so that individual buy a new lease over a leasehold residential property through a nominee or bare trustee will be able to claim first - time buyer ' relief on their stamp duty land tax bill . that change will ensure that , for example , victim of domestic abuse be not unfairly penalise if they wish to buy their first home anonymously . it will ensure that those in difficult circumstance do not face additional barrier to purchase home . the Bill will also make the tax system fair by close tax avoidance loophole and make relevant change to vat . I thank right hon . and hon . member from across the House for their helpful and insightful contribution to the debate during the Bill ' s quick than expect passage . I thank the many stakeholder who have provide their view on the issue raise and provide evidence to the Public Bill Committee , as well as Treasury and HMRC official and , of course , the House Clerks and official who have support we in get the Bill to this point so quickly . the Bill reward work , encourage investment in our economy and boost home ownership . it be part of the Government ' s clear plan of action . for those reason , I commend it to the House . Madam Deputy Speaker , may I begin by pay tribute to you for your year of service and thank you for your guidance ? if I may , I will tell one brief anecdote , which be actually from a previous Finance Bill . I have not quite realise that it be my duty to move the opposition ' s amendment before the time of voting , as I be distract by be in conversation with my hon . friend the Member for Hove ( Peter Kyle ) at the time . the Chamber be full . I think that you clear your throat three time at I until I finally move the amendment . on the way out , the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) say to I , " you will never forget that , will you ? " it be true — I will not . that be great advice and guidance that will stick with I throughout any future year that I may have in this place , depend on the election . thank you very much . we be here to consider the Third reading of the Finance Bill , which the Opposition hope will be the last in the line of 14 year ' worth of Conservative Finance Bills . the Bill come after 14 year of conservative failure on the economy and leave a legacy of high taxis , fall living standard and stagnant economic growth . the truth be that whatever the conservative say or try to do , whether in the Chamber today or on the campaign trail over the next six week , it be too late to repair the damage that they have do to the economy and to people ' s standard of living . I do not think that any of we be expect to be complete the Bill ' s remain stage in the rushed end of this Parliament . many of we have assume that the Prime Minister would call the election later in the year , and I still have not hear why he ultimately decide to call it for July . I have one theory , which be that he realise that prolong the general election would raise the prospect of there be another Finance Bill in which the Government may have have to legislate to end the non - dom tax status . let we face it : the Prime Minister really do not want to get rid of the non - dom tax status . maybe he think this be a way to avoid the Conservatives have to keep their promise to end it . I be afraid that he may still be disappoint as , if Labour win the general election , we will end the non - dom tax status and the new loophole plan by the Conservatives once and for all . now that we be to have a general election , perhaps the Conservatives will finally tell we how they will pay for their £ 46 billion unfunded spending commitment to abolish national insurance altogether . give their track record , I will not be hold my breath . the opposition have try to amend the Bill during its passage to force the Government to come clean about the impact that their six - year freezing of the income tax personal allowance and the high rate threshold be have on taxpayer across the country . we have try to force the Chancellor to set out what impact his and his predecessor ' policy be have on pensioner , and how more of they will pay tax and more of they will have high tax bill as a result of decision make by the Conservatives . alongside the impact on individual taxpayer , we have try to amend the Bill to encourage the Government to follow our plan to bring back certainty for business by cap the rate of corporation tax at 25 % for the whole of the next Parliament . finally , we seek to give certainty to the oil and gas industry by be clear that our strengthened windfall tax or energy profit levy would end no later than the end of the next Parliament . we be disappoint , though sadly not surprised , that none of our amendment become part of the Bill . the opposition will not oppose the Bill ' s Third Reading , but let I close by say two thing . first , I pay thank to the Clerks and the House of Commons staff for all their support throughout the Bill ' s passage and to outside organisation , include the Chartered Institute of Taxation in particular , for all their help not just with this Finance Bill , but with all six Finance Bills for which I have be responsible as a shadow Minister . may I also put on record my appreciation for the way in which the Financial Secretary to the Treasury and the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury have draw a line between the tough and sometimes barb exchange we have in the Chamber and their courtesy and respectfulness outside the Chamber ? that be not always the case in politic , but when it happen , I believe that it make the House of Commons a well place while not for a second compromising on the sharpness of the political question that we be here rightly to contest . ultimately , we be all here to do what be good for our country , and I do not believe that five more year of the Conservatives would serve that goal . not only have they become define by chaos and division , and put party before country at every turn , it be also clear that they have do too much damage to the economy . they have squeeze living standard too much , and they have stretch public service to breaking point . I hope that this be the last in a 14 - year line of Conservative Finance Bills , because the country need change . we finally have the chance to ask the british people what government they want for the next five year . I hope that they will put their trust in our change Labour party to change our country for the well . may I start by pay tribute to you , Madam Deputy Speaker ? the good type of umpire or referee be one who be formidable but fair and greatly respected , and you tick all three box . I be most grateful to you for call I to speak . I do so as I have some concern about unintended consequence arise from clause 7 , which be on the abolition of multiple dwelling relief for stamp duty land tax . my hon . friend the Minister set out some of the reason for abolish it . I wish to go a little far and perhaps pry a little more response out of he to allay those concern . I make these observation as a former charter surveyor , as the MP for a constituency that might be adversely affect and have receive representation from the British Property Federation . I be aware that a number of pension fund , investor , builder and professional adviser have write to my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer express their concern . the build - to - rent sector rise from a combination of the introduction of stamp duty land tax multiple dwelling relief in 2011 and the implementation of some of the Montague review ' s recommendation in 2012 . subsequently , it have be extremely successful . some £ 40 million have be invest in the build - to - rent sector , result in 100 , 300 additional home be complete , with a further 166 , 000 in the planning and delivery pipeline . the sector still represent a relatively small proportion of the delivery of new home , but it be grow rapidly . the number of complete build - to - rent home increase by 17 % year - on - year in the fourth quarter last year . investor and developer initially focus on London , then the large city such as Manchester , Birmingham and Leeds . now , their interest be ripple right out across the UK . build to rent act as an anchor in large development scheme . it help get home of other tenure build , and multiple dwelling relief enable much - need home to be build outside London and the south - east in area where there be low property value and development otherwise would not be financially viable . my concern be that the abolition of multiple dwelling relief in the form propose could have a variety of unintended consequence , which I will go through briefly . first , as I know from my own inbox and postbag , which I anticipate be the case for all colleague , we need to build more home to rent . the Bill potentially remove one of the way of do that . secondly , it will have an impact on specialist sector — student accommodation and sheltered housing — where , in response to demand , developer be increasingly look to provide unit to let . thirdly , the relief be most need in area where the property market be weak — outside London and the south - east — and often in area where the need for more housing be most acute . fourthly , we have a problem in the UK of too few house builder . the small and medium - sized house builder be an increasingly endanger specie . clause 7 could undermine an alternative mean of housing delivery . finally , I be mindful of the enormous task of urban regeneration and town centre renewal that we face right across the UK — in other word level up , which have be the theme of much of this Parliament . this task be enormous and incredibly expensive . it be neither practical nor possible for the state to do that heavy lifting on its own . private finance must be leverage in from pension fund and investor . multiple dwelling relief be a means of do that . some might say it be a small thing , but its abolition could send a negative message that there be no place for the public and private sector to work together . we could amend clause 7 to retain the multiple dwelling relief for transaction of six or more dwelling , on the basis that it would underpin the development proposal of large rent housing scheme , and would result in significantly more rental home be build than if the relief be completely abolish . the threshold of six mirror the exist rule that purchase of six or more dwelling can be treat as a commercial property transaction for stamp duty land tax purpose , and be at a level at which multiple dwelling relief be hard to abuse . I would be grateful if my hon . friend the Financial Secretary to the Treasury , who have be incredibly patient listen to my various concern about this Bill during its course , could comment a little more and seek to allay my genuinely hold concern . I very much like the early comment , Madam Deputy Speaker , about your be a good example to woman in this place and someone whom people look up to . I agree with that , and I want to begin by thank you . let I now say something about the washing up of Finance Bills in general , and about this particular Bill in the context of wash up . it seem to I that I have spend a great deal of my time in Parliament deal with Finance Bills , and I have also spend far too much time deal with Finance Bills during the washing - up process . I do not know whether anyone remember the Finance Act 2017 , but because an election be call the Bill have to go through that process , and it be massively gutted beforehand . my problem be that I have table amendment to all the clause that be now be remove , and I be somewhat unhappy about the fact that I have do a significant amount of work that would never see the light of day . on that occasion I give a speech that I think last more than 50 minute , in which I speak about every amendment I have table , but I can reassure that House that I will not be do the same today . I have not table amendment to this Bill , and neither have my hon . friend the Member for Inverness , Nairn , Badenoch and Strathspey ( Drew Hendry ) . in fact , I have come in at the last moment to take over from my hon . friend , because , sadly , he have return to Inverness before the Prime Minister make the announcement of the election , and there be no physical way for he to get back in time today . I appreciate the hard work that he have do during the Bill ' s early stage . he be sorry that he can not be here , and unfortunately I be a poor substitute , but I will do my good . we will be vote against the Bill ' s Third Reading . I be sure that no one will be surprise by that , give that we table a reason amendment on Second Reading and that this be consistent with the approach that we have take throughout the Bill ' s progress . let I say a little about the way in which Finance Bills — specifically this Finance Bill , and other recent Finance Bills — go through the House . there have be an ongoing issue with Ministers , include chancellor , refuse to include " amendment of the law " resolution . refuse to include a Budget resolution for amendment of the law be a genuine constitutional change , and it have take place without much of a fanfare — pretty much on the basis that it be do during that wash - up in 2017 , or in the case of a Finance Bill that be introduce with a very tight timescale . after that , the resolution be never bring back , although it be important to Finance Bills and it be important for scrutiny purpose . I hope that , should they become a Government at some time in the future , the official opposition will commit themselves to bring it back . I be also concerned about the fact that Finance Bill Committees continue not to take oral evidence . the Procedure Committee will be sick of hear I talk about this , because I bring it up at nearly all its meeting , but the lack of oral evidence mean that scrutiny be not as good as it could be . I appreciate that the Minister mention those who submit write evidence , but I do not think that that be an adequate substitute . I understand the argument of Ministers that Finance Bills be take by a Committee of the whole House follow by Public Bill Committee session , but much of the stuff that be consider in the Public Bill Committee be extremely technical , and it would benefit member to be able to question external organisation with real experience . the Association of Accounting Technicians , for example , would be able to give we a significant amount of information about how such measure would work . when committee deal with Bills with which I have be involve have take oral evidence , member have rely heavily on quote that evidence throughout the progress of those Bills , and I think that this would greatly improve both the Finance Bill and its scrutiny . let I now turn to our specific concern about this Bill . the Chancellor make a number of comment on Radio 4 yesterday morning , before the announcement of the election . one of the excellent journalist on the programme push he to say whether or not he feel he be well off now than before . the Chancellor do not answer that question , but the reality be that if we ask people up and down these island what their big concern be at the moment , they overwhelmingly say it be the cost of living crisis . they be massively concerned about the fact that food , electricity and gas price have go through the roof , and about the extra money that they be have to shell out . the Budget be an opportunity for the UK Government to recognise that concern , take it seriously , and do what we do in Scotland : we have put tackle child poverty front and centre of decision - make process . we have the scottish child payment , which have take 100 , 000 child out of poverty . we be do everything that we can to mitigate the UK Government ' s policy , but the reality be that all we can do be mitigate , give that the block grant be the low percentage of UK Government spending that it have be since devolution . with capital budget for the Scottish Parliament be slash , we find that increasingly difficult , because we be not in control of all the lever . we be not in control of all our finance . we can not increase the minimum wage to a proper living wage , rather than a pretendy living wage . we can not scrap the two - child cap . we mitigate as far as we possibly can , but we do not have all the power that we require . People in Scotland be well off as a result of the decision take by the Scottish Government . they be get a free university education , and they can go to the dentist for free ; I can not believe the low percentage of NHS dentist in the rest of the UK . People in Scotland can receive the scottish child payment , and a high number of child from deprive area go to university in Scotland . there be a huge amount of good be do in Scotland , but it be be do by the SNP Government , who have one hand tie behind their back by Westminster . the Chancellor ' s refusal to say whether he feel well off show the difference between the have and the have - not throughout these island . if we ask people who come to reception in Parliament — people who have high salary — how they feel about the cost of living crisis , they might say that they feel it a bit , and that they will have slightly few holiday or slightly few car , but they do not have to make decision , every moment of every day , about every penny that they spend . they be not , like our constituent , lie in bed at night worry about how they will pay the rent and electricity bill , and how they will manage to buy bread , potato or pasta . the inflation figure announce yesterday do not show that thing be well . they show that inflation be less high than it be , but do it really make a difference to those buy pasta that it have go up by only 47 % , rather than 49 % , over the past few year , give that there have be a 25 % overall increase in the cost of food , and that benefit and social security have not keep pace ? the UK Government have the opportunity to provide help with the cost of live crisis in the Budget , and they do not take it . they talk about the change that they be make to national insurance and tax , but those change impact only people who be work and earn above the threshold , and a good chunk of they , particularly those on the low earning , also get universal credit . there be major issue with universal credit , particularly for single people but also for those with large family , because of factor such as the two - child cap . the reality be that this UK Government have an opportunity to make a difference to people ' s life , and they refuse to take it . they do not have the same priority as we . we will always put Scotland first . we will always fight in this place against UK Government decision that the people of Scotland be unhappy with . whether under a Tory or Labour UK Government , we will do everything that we can to ensure that Scotland ' s voice be hear . we will do everything that we can to disagree with legislation that the people of Scotland disagree with , and everything we can to work cross party when legislation be in the interest of the people of Scotland . I have make it very clear that we disagree with this legislation , and will oppose Third Reading . I thank those who contribute to the debate , and , of course , those who have contribute to debate on the Bill throughout its progress . I turn first to comment make by the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) . I respect her view about scrutiny of Bills in this place . however , I hope that she recognise that finance Bills often contain many , many clause , some of which have be develop over many year , be subject to multiple consultation , and have a huge amount of input . I appreciate that she acknowledge that a lot of write evidence , which be hugely valuable and very much appreciated , be also provide . the fact that she and her colleague be press for a Division on the Bill this evening evidence that there be scrutiny , hold to account , and a diversity of opinion on these matter . I disagree with many of the hon . Lady ' s other comment . on who be well off , 27 million worker be well off because of the national insurance cut , and 2 million self - employ people be well off . if she do not believe that , I suggest that she look at her payslip ; she will see that national insurance be go down . that make a meaningful difference . she may be sniffy about it , but £ 900 be a meaningful difference for an average worker — for many of my constituent , and constituent across the country . for those not in work , of course , we also increase benefit by 6 . 7 % , and pension by 8 . 5 % . we Conservatives always make sure that all people in society be look after . the hon . Lady make comment about support with the cost of living . the opposition consistently seem to have a collective sense of amnesia , and have completely forget the last five year and the global challenge that all economy face , with the pandemic follow by the global cost of living crisis . this Government have have to intervene in a way that nobody anticipate . it mean that taxis have to be high , but as soon as we get the opportunity — as soon as we have the choice — to bring they down , that be exactly what we will do , because we know how difficult this have be for people and want to put more money in their pocket as soon as we can . we have a plan , and it be work . I always respect the opinion and view of my hon . friend the Member for Waveney ( Peter Aldous ) , and I be never alarmed or disturb by his frequently hold I , and the Government , to account for policy decision . I can give he some reassurance , though . the multiple dwelling relief be be abolish for very good reason : it be not work as intend . of course , a considerable amount of money be involve . when we spend taxpayer ' money or allow a relief , we need to make sure that it have the intend impact . the relief be not work as intend , and be subject to considerable abuse , so we be abolish it . however , I can give my hon . friend some assurance , particularly on certain issue that he mention . for example , large investor , include those in the build - to - rent sector who purchase six or more property in a single transaction , can still continue to benefit from the non - residential rate of stamp duty land tax , which can be quite beneficial . we be engage in discussion with stakeholder , include some of the body that he have mention , because we do not want there to be unintended consequence . we appreciate their input on this Bill , as always . I thank my hon . friend for his fantastic intervention , as always . he be an amazing mp for his constituent , and I always appreciate his contribution . I thank the hon . member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) for his gracious comment . he be correct that what be write in Hansard and what the public see of our sometimes rather robust debate be not always a reflection of our generally positive relationship on a personal level . however , that do not mean we do not have robust disagreement on policy , and I be afraid that I will have to raise quite a few point of disagreement today . every single time I have appear at the Dispatch Box , the hon . Gentleman have complain about the Government not call a general election , and now that we have call a general election , he be still complain . that really take the biscuit . he continue with his familiar refrain ; he never miss an opportunity to talk Britain down . I refer he to my early comment about our intervention during the pandemic and their immense £ 400 billion cost to the UK economy . I do not believe the opposition oppose a single one of our intervention at the time , so it be a bit rich to complain about the obvious impact on taxation . if he have an alternative plan , I would have love to have hear it then , and I would love to hear it now , but it be non - existent . the hon . Gentleman be hope to alarm , disturb and depress the british public into vote Labour , which be not a particularly bright strategy . the british public deserve well , and we need to hear confidence and optimism , not pessimism , about the UK economy . I will not repeat the comment I have make on many occasion about Labour ' s ridiculous scaremongering on the national insurance cut and the impact they could have on pension . he know that the cut will not have a negative impact on pension , for the obvious reason that I have hope he would now understand . national insurance do not wholly pay for pension , welfare or the NHS , so why on earth be labour go around the country try to scaremonger old people and people who rely on the NHS into believe otherwise ? I do not know . it be not an admirable way to try to win an election . the hon . Gentleman and his colleague keep repeat the mantra of " a change Labour party " . maybe in some way that be true . labour have certainly go from embrace the hard left of british politic to embrace the hard right . that unbelievable journey speak volume about Labour ' s value : it have none . or , as the old saying go , " these be our value . if you don ' t like they , don ' t worry : we have other . " on policy , too , there be a constant string of flip - flop , u - turn and uncertainty , which I be sure we will see during the general election . we will be hold Labour to account . for example , Labour have abolish its £ 28 billion green spending commitment , but it seem to have retain the policy . be labour abolish tuition fee ? maybe not . will it abolish the House of Lords ? maybe not . will it return to free movement and the single market ? maybe not . will it abolish universal credit ? maybe not . will it increase income tax on top earner ? maybe not . rent cap , the ultra low emission zone , banker ’ bonus and zero - hour contract — we have have constant flip - flop from the opposition . not even they know what their actual policy be . it completely lack credibility . as I say , they can not expect the british public to be take for such a ride . the british public know where they stand with the Conservatives , because we have a plan . they can see it in the recent autumn statement , the spring Budget and this Bill . no matter what stage of life they be at , they can be confident that the Conservatives be there to support they . with our childcare measure and the child benefit change in this Bill , it be clear that when they bring child into this world , we be there for they . through our national insurance cut and our measure to support business , it be clear that we be there for those in work or run a business . if they have finish work and have retire , we have show through the triple lock and other measure that we be always there for they . we can have strong public service and a strong welfare system that help the most vulnerable in society only if we also have a strong economy to generate the taxis to pay for they . a strong recovery be vital for both the public and the private sector . that mean that we on this side of the House be unapologetically pro - business . despite the challenge of the past few year , we be now on a clear path to recovery : the economy be grow again ; inflation be fall ; real wage be increase ; and people who look at their pay packet will see that their national insurance taxis have be cut too . that be more money in people ' s pocket because of the action and decision of this government — we have a plan , whereas the opposition do not . we can not put that at risk , so stick with the Conservatives for a bright future . I commend this Bill to the House . question put , that the Bill be now read the third time . Bim Afolami Peter Aldous Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Steve Brine Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Jo Churchill Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Alberto Costa Robert Courts Tracey Crouch Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nick Gibb John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Chris Grayling Chris Green Andrew Griffith Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Matthew Hancock Greg Hands Rebecca Harris Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Gareth Johnson Andrew Jones David Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Mark Logan Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Cherilyn Mackrory Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Scott Mann Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Esther McVey Mark Menzies Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Amanda Milling Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Ben Spencer Jane Stevenson Iain Stewart Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Ben Wallace Matt Warman Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jacob Young Mark Jenkinson Joy Morrissey Kirsty Blackman Deidre Brock Amy Callaghan Joanna Cherry Angela Crawley Allan Dorans Marion Fellows Peter Grant Chris Law David Linden Stewart McDonald Anne McLaughlin John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Chris Stephens Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Philippa Whitford Hywel Williams Kirsten Oswald Patrick Grady the House divide : Ayes 215 , Noes 19 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read the third time and pass . before I suspend the House pende the arrival of Lords message , may I take a moment to thank everyone for be so kind to I this afternoon and for their good wish ? it have not occur to I when I put out a tweet — or whatever it be now call — just before 1 pm that , by 1 . 30 pm when I come into the Chamber , people would actually have read it . that be a real surprise to I . it would appear that the power of social medium be great and I really ought to use it more . I have be very touch by the kind comment , which show that we all make friend on all side and in every corner of this House . that be because we all have something in common . we be not the people who sit at home moaning and shout at the television ; we be the people who get up and do something about it . everyone who sit in this House have come here with the object of make the world a well place . we have different way of do it , but we all have that one objective . as I mention early , to I , be Chairman of Ways and Means be the good job in the world by far , and I have be very privileged to be allow to do it . when I be a little girl study Oscar Wilde ' s " the Importance of be Earnest " , it be my ambition to play Lady Bracknell and , since I first climb the step of this Chair 10 and a half year ago , I have have the great pleasure of play Lady Bracknell every day — [ hon . member : " a handbag ? " ] order ! the House will now suspend pende the arrival of Lords message . I will cause the Division bell to ring five minute before the sitting resume . sit suspend ( Order , this day ) . business of the House Further to this morning ' s business statement , it may help the House if I confirm that , prior to the House rise tonight , we intend to consider the follow business : consideration of Lords amendment to the Post Office ( Horizon System ) Offences Bill , follow by consideration of Lords amendment to the Media Bill . for the further convenience of the House , it may help if I also confirm that the business for tomorrow , Friday 24 May , will include the follow item : consideration of Lords amendment to the Victims and Prisoners Bill . debate on a motion to approve the Sanctions ( EU Exit ) ( Miscellaneous Amendments and Revocations ) Regulations 2024 . debate on a motion to approve the draft Coroners ( suspension of Requirement for Jury at Inquest : Coronavirus ) Regulations 2024 . debate on a motion to approve the draft Energy Act 2023 ( Consequential Amendments ) Regulations 2024 . debate on a motion to approve the Tribunal Procedure ( Upper Tribunal ) ( Immigration and Asylum Chamber ) ( amendment ) Rules 2024 . if necessary , consideration of Lords amendment to the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill . general debate on matter to be raise ahead of the forthcoming Dissolution , to allow for valedictory speech by member of Parliament . if necessary , consideration of further Lords message . the House will prorogue follow a message from the Lords Commissioners . I thank the Comptroller of his Majesty ' s household for deliver that beautifully read business statement , and for the advance copy of it . I be sure it will aid member to plan their business over the come day . Post Office ( Horizon System ) offence Bill consideration of Lords amendment I confirm that nothing in the Lords amendment engage Commons financial privilege . clause 2 - mean of " relevant offence " I beg to move , that this House agree with Lords amendment 1 . with this it will be convenient to discuss Lords amendment 2 . this be an historic day . it have be a great privilege to be the Minister for the Bill , and I thank our official for move with lightning speed to get it to this point , only five month from when the process commence . I also thank member in all part of both Houses for their co - operation and their collegiate approach to the Bill , include the Opposition Front Benchers , who have provide great support , which we greatly appreciate . I thank the Justice Secretary , my Department ' s Secretary of State and the Prime Minister — the Bill would not have be possible without their support . this be an historic day because , as a result of the Bill , conviction will be overturn on Royal Assent . with his Majesty ' s agreement , that mean they will be overturn tomorrow . along with the contaminated blood scandal , the Horizon scandal remain a terrible stain on our nation ' s recent past . it be one of the great miscarriage of justice in our nation ' s history , and over the course of the debate on the Bill we have hear the testimony of victim , and the lie and obfuscation of those who be responsible , express by member across the House . that have rightly make member of both Houses and the public deeply frustrated and angry at the injustice that sub - postmaster and their family have face . it be right that the Government have introduce legislation to exonerate those who have suffer for so long , and the time provide for the Bill today allow we to ensure that it be conclude . we must not lose sight of the task at hand during this wash - up , and we must ensure that the hundred of innocent people who be wrongfully convict get the justice that they deserve , and the compensation and exoneration that they desperately need . the Opposition have support the Bill , and we support the independent inquiry and wish to see it continue its work . even this week , with the testimony of Paula Vennells , shock new information have be reveal , and we will continue to push for justice for the victim . at previous stage , the Minister provide assurance that he would ensure that case from the Capture IT system be look at , because this Bill do not cover the wide extent of the scandal , and that the company responsible for Horizon , Fujitsu , and its executive will honour the commitment that they make to provide compensation , rather than leave it to taxpayer to do so . I hope he can update we on any progress he have make since give that undertaking in the House . this Parliament will soon dissolve , but Ministers of the Crown carry on for a few more week . I hope the Minister will make every effort to ensure as much progress as possible be make , so that the family receive the redress they desperately need . in the other House , the Labour Front - Bench spokesperson highlight Lord Arbuthnot ' s desire to see those convict by the Court of Appeal include in the Bill before we . at the time of speak , the Government oppose that . we be sympathetic , but we nevertheless remain opposed to Parliament become , in effect , " the appeal court for the Court of Appeal " . we would , however , support appropriate proposal to give the 13 people not cover by the Bill the opportunity to seek redress in the court . I hope the Minister be able to look at what might be do to work with Lord Arbuthnot to find a satisfactory solution for those 13 case . in conclusion , I be grateful to colleague from across both Houses for the work they have do , particularly the Members of Parliament who work so tirelessly to ensure that the plight of sub - postmaster and their family be raise . their work highlight that in this and other scandal , such as the contaminated blood scandal , it be the constituency connection and our relationship with the people we represent that be often the most powerful insight into see injustice early on , and see broad pattern that expose major failure in our system , be that in the contaminated blood scandal or the Horizon scandal . the message be very clear : whoever and whichever party be in power , Ministers , civil servant and those in position of power must listen very closely and not dismiss the concern of member of Parliament who raise those case , which can expose a big pattern of injustice , or the citizen we represent . order . before I call Marion Fellows , I note that early today Kevan Jones announce that he will not be stand at the next election . on behalf of all the victim , I thank you , Kevan , for the doughty fight that you have put up on behalf of they all . you have be absolutely amazing in what you have do . you be sit next to Jackie Doyle - Price — I know it be only a matter of time before she cross the Floor . more amazing thing have happen recently , so it doesn ' t surprise I . I have decide that I would not speak , but I feel compel to do so . I be very pleased that the Bill have pass . I be very pleased that all the victim who have be exonerate by the Bill will be exonerate tomorrow , except those in Scotland , which I be still unhappy about . I think it be a huge pity and shame that that do not happen , and that the three sub - postmaster who come down here especially the last time the Bill be before the House do not even get a chance to hear what be be say because of the way of this House , where nothing be ever fix . we can bring people 400 mile , but they have to go back the same day and they can not stay . I want to pay tribute to someone I can safely say be my friend , the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) , for all the counsel and help he have give I . I already give a little tribute early today , but I could not possibly not say thank you to Lord Arbuthnot and to the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) , who so stoutly defend Scotland the last time the Bill be before the House . this place be sovereign , but not when it come to Scotland , so independence have well come soon . I call our right hon . friend , Kevan Jones . thank you for your kind word , Mr Deputy Speaker . I think this will be the last time that I speak in this Chamber , and I can not think of a more fitting debate in which to do so , because it be the culmination of many year of fighting . I play a small part in get justice for the sub - postmaster ; much of it be down to Alan Bates and the family who go through this complete nightmare . hopefully , they will get justice and truth when the inquiry report next year . this Bill be always go to be important because of the individual involve . unless you actually sit with many of these victim , they would not have come forward to clear the stain on their reputation or to gain access to compensation . it have be a long fight , and my partner in crime be Lord Arbuthnot . someone ask I how we have get together on this . if people look back , they will see that we both serve on the Defence Committee — he be the Chair at the time . he have be a very effective advocate and I pay huge tribute to he . there have be many member from all part of the House — some be no long here — who make a contribution over the year , and I think that their support need to be recognise as well . turn to the Ministers involve , I would like to mention the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam ( Paul Scully ) , who show such tenacity in his determination to get justice . he be follow very ably by the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) . I have call he a poacher turn gamekeeper , but he be a very effective one . he have drive this case forward , not in a belligerent way , but with patience and determination to ensure that people who have be wrong get justice . that be something that we should all think about . People can turn round and say , " no , you be wrong , the system can not be question . " and there be time when you can feel like you be plough a lonely furrow . but if you know in your gut that something be wrong , it be important to just keep go . this be one of those case . but it have certainly be champion by the Minister , who have be an excellent advocate on behalf of all these people . it have not be easy . I accept that some of the decision that he have to make be not easy and be not always welcome by everyone , but he try his good and we have this Bill today because of he . I have one final thing to say , and this be unfinished business . the Minister know what I be go to say now and it be about Capture , the pre - Horizon scheme , which I have be investigate . hopefully , we will get justice for those individual as well , and , again , the Minister be determined to get to the bottom of that by appoint an independent investigator to look at the case that have be refer to he . I shall be look from afar with interest , but I know that whoever pick up his brief or take on this case will not be able to put it down unless they get that justice . in politic , people often ask whether you can actually achieve anything . there be a lot of cynicism these day . I say to anybody who be aspire to be a member of this place that they can change thing , they can make a difference , but they have to be persistent . Most of the time , people across the other side of this House may be political opponent , but they be not our enemy . we do the good in this place when we work together , and , in this case , cross - party working have achieve final justice for these people . with the leave of the House , I have a few final comment . the shadow Minister ask about the Capture software that be use prior to the Horizon software . the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) have push strongly on these matter , and we be have an independent investigation into they , which we anticipate will report later this year . I be sure that he will take a keen interest in that , as will those on the Opposition Front - Bench team . it be important that we get redress as soon as possible . the Bill open the door to rapid redress for hundred of victim of this scandal . we believe that we can get redress pay from July onwards , when the new scheme will be put in place . on the Court of Appeal , we be very interested to ensure that those people also get a fair hearing , and a rapid rehearing of their case , and can be exonerate wherever possible . I thank many of my predecessor who work on this , not least my hon . friend the Member for Sutton and Cheam ( Paul Scully ) , who do a fantastic job in very difficult circumstance . clearly , the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) have do a tremendous job on the all - party parliamentary group on post office . it be always a pleasure to work with she . we do not always see eye to eye , but we usually do . I understand her point on Scotland . of course , the legislation be now in its final state and , hopefully , Scotland will be able to effect it before the Scottish Parliament ' s recess , which be only a few week away . it show what can be do when we all work together , as the right hon . member for North Durham say . the right hon . member do tremendous work on the Horizon redress advisory board , which be the reason we be here . victim of this horrendous scandal want to see two thing : redress pay for their loss , and people hold to account . both those thing will be achieve because of his work and that of the noble Lord Arbuthnot . I do not believe that either of those thing would have happen have they not work as hard as they have . the shocking evidence to the inquiry this week have be reveal because of their work , and we should be grateful to they . I concur with the right hon . member : many people be cynical about this place , or people ' s motivation for enter it , but people enter this place to try to do some good and make change for the well . he have , both Houses have , and it be my pleasure to have be a part of it , too . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . I want to thank a number of colleague who be step down . as have be mention , the Minister ' s predecessor , the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam ( Paul Scully ) , be step down . I thank he for take the Bill and this work to the point that he do . I also thank the Deputy Chief Whip for the Labour party , my hon . friend the Member for Halifax ( Holly Lynch ) . I discover today that she be step down , and I be pretty gutted . Most crucially , I thank my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) . as other have point out , his work have be profound , along with that of Lord Arbuthnot and all the sub - postmaster involve in this important , powerful campaign . again , I be very saddened that he have decide to leave the House , but I know that he will be a tireless campaigner to ensure that , whoever be in power after the general election , the work continue and victim get the justice and exoneration that they need . we be all incredibly grateful for the work that he have do with other across the House , and with the wide campaign . as have be point out , it be campaign such as this that highlight the power of our democracy , and show it , and our political representative , at their good . Kevan be the epitome of that , along with other colleague who have expose other scandal , work with their constituent . I thank all my colleague across the House , and the Minister for the work that he have do on this important issue . this be such an emotional time for we , today and tomorrow . holly , I do not know . we wish you well for the future . we will miss you greatly , but do not be a stranger , please . the same to you , Kevan . lord amendment 1 agree to . Lords amendment 2 agree to . medium Bill consideration of Lords amendment I confirm that nothing in the Lords amendment engage Commons financial privilege . clause 1 - report on the fulfilment of the public service remit I beg to move , that this House agree with Lords amendment 1 . with this it will be convenient to discuss Lords amendment 2 to 25 . it be a proud moment to be in this Chamber — a moment of justice — as the Post Office ( Horizon System ) Offences Bill pass its final stage . couple that with the return yesterday of our hon . friend the Member for South Thanet ( Craig Mackinlay ) , it feel a privilege to be able to stand at this Dispatch Box . I rise to ask that all amendment to the Media Bill from the Lords be agree to — namely , that we retain the reithian principle of public service broadcast and include an explicit reference to child ' s educational programme in the public service broadcast remit . the Media Bill will enable viewer and listener across our country to continue to access public service television and radio content as technology change . the Bill will also deliver the manifesto commitment to repeal section 40 of the Crime and Courts Act 2013 , which , if commence , could have a chilling effect on the freedom of the press . I be tremendously grateful to the very talented Bill team in the Department for Culture , Media and Sport and everybody who have contribute to and work on this piece of legislation . it be the first communication law in this country in two decade and I be proud , as Media Minister , finally to have deliver it . may I take this opportunity to say what an absolute delight , privilege and honour it be to be in the Chamber yesterday when Craig take his seat post his sepsis ? I visit Craig in hospital every week that he be there , and I must say his resilience and positivity be an example to I . he really do raise my spirit and I be delighted that he be able to come back yesterday . I associate myself with those comment , Mr Deputy Speaker , and echo the Minister ' s comment about the Post Office ( Horizon System ) offence Bill . I be pleased to be here tonight to see the final passage of the Media Bill . it have be 20 year since the last broadcasting law be introduce , and in that time the medium landscape have change dramatically . this Bill ensure that our broadcasting sector can continue to thrive with regulation fit for the modern era . the measure in the Bill have be through several layer of scrutiny , from the White Paper to the pre - legislative inquiry conduct by the Culture , Media and Sport Committee . I thank the Committee for its work , and I will take this opportunity to say some other thank yous . I thank the range of stakeholder , include those throughout our broadcasting sector , who engage so extensively with the content of the Bill . I thank the noble Lords , include of course our Labour Lords team , the civil servant and official , and the ministerial team . I also thank my office , particularly Anna Clingan . while Labour would have add some further measure to future - proof and strengthen the Bill , I be pleased to welcome its passage this evening . far to that , I be happy to support the amendment from the other place , which I believe will strengthen the position and purpose of our public service broadcaster . first , it be right that the fundamental reithian principle of public service broadcasting be reinstate , and it be important that educational programming for child and young people have an explicit basis in the Bill . labour have speak in detail at every stage of the Bill about the importance of child ' s access to public service content , include educational content . as we enter a general election , our medium — be they our public service broadcaster , our commercial radio and television station or our local media outlet , include my local paper , the Barnsley Chronicle — will play an incredibly important role in hold accountable all of we who stand for public office . our medium and broadcasting sector will , and always do , play a fundamental role in our society and democracy . I be pleased that this legislation , which will secure their future , will enter into statute . as we enter the election period , I would like to wish colleague across the House , especially those who be retire , my very good , include of course my hon . friend the Member for Halifax ( Holly Lynch ) and the Deputy Speakers who sit in your Chair , Mr Speaker : my right hon . friend the Member for Doncaster Central ( Dame Rosie Winterton ) , and the right hon . member for Epping Forest ( Dame Eleanor Laing ) . hear , hear . I will hold on to the thank - yous because I will probably be here again tomorrow , and can say they then . we have support the Media Bill throughout its passage and will continue to do so , but I must flag a few concern that we still have about it , although we will not vote against the Lords amendment . there be some positive in the Bill , include the change to radio service , particularly on - demand service such as those access through Alexa . the Government could have go far on in - car broadcasting , for example . local radio be so incredibly important . in Aberdeen , we have Northsound 1 and Original 106 , which be absolutely fabulous — I get on very well with they most of the time . those local radio station be incredibly important when it come to resilience . as the SNP Cabinet Office spokesperson , I know how much people rely on they , particularly when it come to local event such as flooding , to learn what be happen in their area . I be really pleased that minister have recognise the importance of local radio throughout the Bill ' s passage . on the public service remit , I be pleased to echo the comment make by the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Barnsley East ( Stephanie Peacock ) , about education . we be happy to support the change that involve the inclusion of educational content and program quota , although more could have be do on regional quota — particularly those that just specify " outside the M25 , " for example . we could go far to ensure that regional content be spread across the United Kingdom . I appreciate that a significant number of public sector broadcaster do that , but we could have legislate to keep to quota in future . Prominence in on - demand service be incredibly important , because those service be such a common way for people to watch television nowadays . I still have concern about the fact that gaming console be not include . the provision on give prominence to public service broadcaster do not apply to those watch content on a PlayStation , for example ; the provision apply only to device that be mainly for watch television . the Government may have to change that in the future . I have concern about list event , in relation to scottish football . give that we have the Euros come up , and Scotland be finally do decently and get to the final of an event — it have be an awfully long time since we have have this optimism around football in Scotland — more could have be do on list event , particularly those relate to scottish football . give the massive support in Scotland for football and our national team , that would have be a positive step forward . I would appreciate a commitment to change in future to ensure that we have free - to - air football , so that we in Scotland be not the only one exclude from see our national team on free - to - air tv . the future of terrestrial broadcasting be mention a significant number of time throughout the Bill ' s passage . I appreciate the Government ' s ongoing commitment to the ability to access terrestrial service . I have concern about this issue from the point of view of resilience and ensure that people be not exclude from watch television if they do not have fast internet . my main concern be that we will accidentally end up with terrestrial broadcasting service be dismantle , or not invest in , because there be no commitment to keep they . the next Government will have to make commitment to those service to ensure we have access to they post 2030 . my last , and probably big , concern be about the change that clause 50 make to section 40 of the Crime and Courts Act 2013 . many promise be make to people after Leveson . there be many victim of press intrusion whose life be devastate by journalist who be not act ethically . press regulation be not nearly as good as it could be . I appreciate the Government ' s position that section 40 be inappropriate , and that they disagree with how it might be implement , if it ever be to be implement . I understand that , but nothing have be put in place to ensure proper regulation , and that when people contact the Independent Press Standards Organisation — the press regulator — they get proper redress . there be a balance to be find between the Government ' s position — they disagree with state - back regulation of the press — and our ; we disagree with self - impose regulation of the press , especially when it seem to be able to do what it want , and IPSO uphold so few complaint . my big concern about the removal of section 40 of the 2013 Act be that promise be make to victim during and after the Leveson inquiry . they be promise that the system would improve , but it have not see significant improvement , and the Government ' s removal of section 40 with nothing proper and sensible to replace it mean that we continue to face the risk of press intrusion . People could find themselves in the same position again , with no opportunity for redress . however , as I make clear at the beginning of my speech , I will not oppose the Bill ; the SNP have be supportive of it throughout its passage . my last point be personal . I lead on the Media Bill because my colleague and hon . friend the Member for Ochil and South Perthshire ( John Nicolson ) , the culture spokesperson , be unavailable at the time . I have to learn a huge amount in a very short time to lead on this Bill for the SNP , and I be indebted to all the organisation that give I briefing , sit down and speak to I , and answer all the stupid question that I bring to they . I be genuinely indebted to they for all the work they do to ensure I could speak in this Chamber and in Committee and not sound too stupid . of course , any mistake that I have make be mine , not theirs . Mr Deputy Speaker , thank you very much for allow I the opportunity to speak on this Bill . we will support it , even though we have a number of reservation . I thank the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) . she be an extraordinarily diligent Member of Parliament , and I admire she for that . I simply want to thank she , and the hon . member for Barnsley — East . east — apology . I thank both member for all the work that have go into this legislation . since we have discuss all these matter at length many time , I simply commend the Bill to the House ; I be very glad that we have finally get to this stage . lord amendment 1 agree to . lord amendment 2 to 25 agree to . that conclude consideration of Lords amendment to the Media Bill — congratulation . petition - annual swimming lesson in school I rise to present a petition on behalf of two resident of the constituency of Loughborough on the need for annual swimming lesson in school , alongside an online petition that they start , which have be sign by over 66 , 000 people . sadly , the son of one of the petitioner , 13 - year - old Kieran Wharton , drown in the River Soar in Barrow in my constituency last year . since then , the petitioner have be keen to raise awareness about water safety , and to promote new measure to prevent further drown incident . this petition highlight the fact that many child do not learn to swim confidently , or even enough to save their life . to address this , the petition call for school to provide annual swimming lesson to all child . they would involve a badge system , under which a child could not move on to the next stage until they be confident in the current one . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to introduce a requirement for school to provide annual swimming lesson as part of the physical education curriculum . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Loughborough , declare that too many people die from drown each year , include an alarming number of child ; note that , despite swimming requirement in the curriculum , many child do not learn to swim confidently or even enough to save their own life ; far declare that the Government should introduce a requirement for school to provide annual swimming lesson as part of the physical education curriculum ; far that this should include a badge system where a child be not able to move on to the next stage until they be confident in the current one ; and further note that a Change . org petition start by petitioner on this issue garner over 62 , 000 signature . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to introduce a requirement for school to provide annual swimming lesson as part of the physical education curriculum . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002977 ] Petition - Road network in Shropshire in my final appearance in this House , I present a petition gather by Les and Lynn Ginns on behalf of 174 resident of Earls Ditton Lane near Cleobury Mortimer in my constituency , where the road surface condition have become so poor as to be unsafe . I very much hope that some of the £ 289 million of funding announce by this Government for road in Shropshire will be spend correct this . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request the House of Commons urge the Government to ensure that a permanent solution to the road be seek through the resurfacing of the road and a no large vehicle sign be impose from the junction of Withypool Farm to Ditton Mill Ford . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of Earl Ditton Lane in Shropshire , declare that the stretch of road from Doddington , past Earls Ditton Farm down to Ditton Mill and from Hollywaste Cross to Withypool Farm be in such a state of disrepair that it be impact adversely the daily access of delivery vehicle , emergency vehicle , hgv and service vehicle ; far that resident be reluctant to leave their home for fear of further damage to their vehicle and that vistir be be deter from see relative and use the caravan park which be far impact on the owner business . the petitioner therefore request the House of Commons urge the Government to ensure that a permanent solution to the road be seek through the resurfacing of the road and no large vehicle sign be impose from the junction of Withypool Farm to Ditton Mill Ford . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002997 ] National Grid Proposals : North East Lincolnshire Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Suzanne Webb . ) I be delighted to have this opportunity to raise the issue of National Grid ' s proposal for the Grimsby to Walpole route , which , if realise , will see stretch of pylon construct across the countryside in Lincolnshire and neighbouring region . there can be no doubt but that this would have a major impact on the environment and economy along the length of the route . my focus today be on the section pass through North East Lincolnshire , though I note the presence of member from other affected constituency . my hon . friend the Member for Boston and Skegness ( Matt Warman ) lead an excellent Westminster Hall debate on this matter on 2 May , and I fully support the point that he and other raise , but such be the concern — and to some extent anger — of local resident that I want to wait for an opportunity to focus on the effect on North East Lincolnshire . I be pleased , thank to Mr Speaker , to have the opportunity to put on record my concern about National Grid ' s proposal . my hon . friend be generous in allow I to intervene to emphasise the case for South Holland and the Deepings , which face exactly the menace he describe . what be propose would compromise food security by use valuable agricultural land and blight the landscape , as well as endanger , in my judgment , the wildlife in the site of special scientific interest that cover the saltmarsh on the coast . this must be stop , in the public interest and for the common good . as my right hon . Friend say , it must be stop , and that be what I and my constituent want . my concern reflect those of my constituent , a significant number of whom have be in touch with I in recent month to voice their understandable anger and concern at the National Grid plan . the main village impact be Brigsley , Ashby cum Fenby , Barnoldby le Beck and Waltham . these be attractive traditional village that face be blight by monstrous metal structure and cabling . while it may not be the legal case , the reality be that project on this scale require popular consent if they be to be deliver well . there be no point in bulldoze through public opinion ; this will lead to further resentment and distrust . there be alternative and they must be consider . decision such as these be an opportunity for government to show that the view of local community matter and that there be way of deliver the much - need improvement to the grid that take account of those view . I be far down the east coast but I recognise the problem my hon . friend be describe in term of the impact on north - east Lincolnshire . in Suffolk Coastal — I see that my hon . friend the Member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) be also here — we have be concern for some time about the lack of vision in use new technology to avoid the devastation not just of pylon but , think of Friston and Saxmundham in my constituency , of converter and other substation . those would have a truly damaging impact on greenfield site , and we should be do everything we can to get they on to brownfield site close to where the electricity be be use . my hon . friend the Member for Cleethorpes ( Martin Vickers ) have indicate that must be stop . I agree , and I also suggest we should at least have a moratorium until the 2025 strategy be ready . I thank my right hon . friend for the intervention and she be absolutely right : a moratorium be the way forward . I have attend one National Grid consultation meeting and meet representative privately . it be not ideal that its plan remain vague as to the exact route ; more concrete proposal would be beneficial to all involve . the National Grid have also give the impression to some local resident that this be a fait accompli , and I be sure the Minister will reassure they that be not the case . I also want to reassure they that be not the case . the consultation that National Grid be hold in the constituency and up and down the country must be meaningful , and they must be certain that member from across the House will ensure they be meaningful . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure this timely debate because what he describe affect Norfolk , Suffolk , and Harwich and North Essex in particular , and other Essex constituency where the Government be not consider new technology at the moment . instead of pylon , we could have high - voltage , direct - current underground system of the kind that be now the default option in Germany , for example . get that on to the agenda would speed up that infrastructure , because it would not be nearly so controversial and mire in judicial review and court process . like other colleague who have intervene , my hon . friend highlight the point that new technology be available which must be consider before a final decision be take . infrastructure that transmit electricity across the country be nationally significant , and we accept that upgrade in one form or another be need . expand the network will indeed lower consumer bill . as my right hon . friend the Member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) note in the debate on 2 May , transmission and distribution cost be now roughly 15 % of every electricity bill . it will also secure our energy supply as we decarbonise our energy production in pursuit of net zero . of course the most ideal route from a resident perspective be also , accord to National Grid , the most expensive . building pylon be cheap than bury cable or take they offshore . once we consider that this infrastructure be need up and down the country , we realise that the cost become staggering . the Government argue that power line bury underground be up to 10 time more expensive , although that be dispute and the cost often fall on to the bill payer . however , cost should not always be the primary factor in decision making : government and their agency have wide consideration such as ensure that the quality of life for their citizen be as pleasant as possible . they need to carry people with they by seriously consider every alternative and share their deliberation with the community involve . similarly , there be indirect cost of building pylon that have nothing to do with their construction , but have be impose as a tool to buy local support . an example of that be the announcement of community benefit scheme to be provide for the area . that will be fund — although compensation might be a well phrase — for every overhead line and underground cable in an area , and the cost of that must be take into account overall , as must the discount of up to £ 1 , 000 for household close to the new infrastructure . I be never oppose to local community be give much - need funding to improve the area for the benefit of local resident — of course , it be only right that community be compensate for inconvenience , particularly when it relate to such nationally significant work — but those cost will soon add up , and they must be include in calculation . unfortunately , constraint impose by Government seem to have place an emphasis in favour of pylon , as oppose to alternative such as underground and offshore . indeed , as my hon . friend the Member for Bolsover ( Mark Fletcher ) , stand in for the Minister in the debate on 2 May , say , " overhead line should be the strong starting presumption " . — [ Official Report , 2 May 2024 ; Vol . 749 , c . 200WH . ] the phrase " strong presumption " be a loaded statement and do not indicate that full consideration will be give to alternative . though he do clarify that flexibility be possible " where there be a high potential for widespread adverse landscape and / or visual impact . " — [ Official Report , 2 May 2024 ; Vol . 749 , c . 200WH . ] some clarity on what " high potential " and " widespread " mean here would be welcome , give that many community will have a valid case to say that both term apply to development in their area . I thank my hon . friend for give way , as he be discuss the debate I secure in Westminster Hall . I welcome the contribution of many member to that . do he agree that the Minister rightly express that there be a huge amount of real feeling on our constituent ' behalf ? it be right that the Government should listen to that and that this process need to consider those feeling . perhaps we should ask whether it should be pause while those feeling be take fully into account . I agree with my hon . friend . whether we call it a pause or a moratorium , we need to stop and reflect on where we have arrive . I hope the Minister will confirm in his reply that although plan guidance contain an assumption in favour of pylon , full consideration of the alternative will be put before Ministers . the proposal be short - sighted and incoherent , give the obvious necessity to rewire the grid to make it fit for the future and ensure we have the infrastructure in place to reach net zero . by 2050 , the country will require two or three time the amount of electricity as today , but in respect of these plan , there be a clear failing of strategy in relation to how we ensure the necessary infrastructure . my constituency be largely a rural one , as Lincolnshire be more broadly , and there be significant regional concern regard the impact of erect pylon on prime agricultural land and what that will mean for our food security . in fact , when it come to this land , even underground wiring be not ideal , give the disruption that might cause . we be fortunate to benefit from an ever - increase amount of electricity generate from offshore wind farm , and my constituency be fortunate to be on the Humber estuary , which be a lead force in the renewable energy sector . that present an opportunity for an offshore grid transmit much of our electricity away under the sea . at some point that electricity will have to come on land , but it would significantly reduce the need for pylon and overhead cable . we can learn here from example in Belgium and Denmark . I conclude by deliver a few message to relevant stakeholder . to National Grid , I reiterate my previous remark , where I stress that it must consider the impact on resident in nearby village before make any decision and look to mitigate the impact on the visual environment to the great extent . I , like many of my colleague , be in favour of extensive underground and undersea section rather than utilise open countryside . I desperately hope that will be take on board . in that regard , I be encourage by the Prime Minister ' s reply on 20 March when , refer to I , he say : " he will recognise the balance we need to strike by make sure that we give our country the energy security it need but do it in a way that be respectful of the impact on local community . I will make sure that minister take into account the concern he raise and that all the view of local constituent be take into account . " — [ Official Report , 20 March 2024 ; Vol . 747 , c . 934 . ] I do not want to make this speech too political . however , give that the ultimate decision on this matter be unlikely to be take until next year , and consequently after the election , my message to whoever sit on the Treasury Bench and be responsible for decide this matter be that I and my conservative colleague will not let it rest . the proposal as they stand will not get my support . finally , I say to the Minister that the Government have set out ambitious but sensible environmental target . if we be to achieve those target to reduce emission , we will need to produce more electricity , and clearly that mean that the additional infrastructure be require , but we must protect our visual environment . I appreciate that Ministers can not pre - empt National Grid ' s final recommendation and must not prejudge issue that they will later have to determine , but I hope that the Minister will ensure that the view of my constituent , as well as those of other across the House , be front and centre in the process and that the wide impact on the environment and economy of north - east Lincolnshire , which I be privileged to represent , will be take seriously . I assure my constituent that their voice will be hear and that I — and I know my colleague — will fight any proposal that have a detrimental impact on their community . it be a real pleasure to respond to the final Adjournment debate of this Parliament . early today , I respond to the final Westminster Hall debate — yes , I have literally be do the washing up . in the spirit of the tribute that we have be pay to our soon - to - be - depart colleague , I want briefly to pay tribute to my dear friend , my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) . while he claim that his proud moment be the looped Sky News footage of he carry the bag of my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) , I disagree . I would say that he be one of our fine performer at the Dispatch Box and be one of our strong performer in the medium and in debate . I make that clear to each and every one of the Chief Whips and Prime Ministers at various reshuffle . our party underuse he , which be a great loss . he will be sadly lose in the future . I turn to this incredibly important debate . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Cleethorpes ( Martin Vickers ) for raise this important issue , which I know be of importance not just to his constituency but to his region and across many area of Great Britain . I assure he as a Minister that I have be lobby heavily by so many colleague on it . an expand electricity network be critical to lower consumer bill , secure our energy supply , deliver green growth and skilled job , and decarbonise our electricity system . nobody deny that , but that must be deliver in a strategic and sensitive way , which consider and mitigate impact on community and our treasured landscape . I thank all hon . member present for their contribution . the offshore wind grid will come in through Grimsby West substation and skirt around the Great Grimsby constituency , but resident be concerned that it will go through beautiful countryside , pass by an area of outstanding natural beauty . do the Minister understand people ' s concern that if this development be in another area of the country , that area would not be get ride roughshod over as much as we feel that we be in north - eastern Lincolnshire as a whole ? my hon . friend have champion the voice of her community . I will come specifically to the importance of resident ’ concern . we all recognise that this be an important subject for community . my Secretary of State and I be clear that community voice must be hear in our transformation of the electricity system . the Prime Minister have make it clear that we be make the transition to net zero in a way that support community and family . that be true of new electricity infrastructure , and the organisation that plan and deliver it be work to ensure that . member will be under no illusion that to bring new home - grow electricity on to the system , we must expand the electricity network considerably , rewire from where new generation be be build in our wind - rich sea and new coastal nuclear site to connect it to area of demand . we also anticipate that by 2050 we will need to meet double the current demand , and we need an efficient , high - tech electricity network to transport that power from where it be generate to where it be need , to drive our country forward . the Government be acutely mindful of the potential visual impact of electricity transmission infrastructure — particularly overhead line — on community . that have be raise by member , whether through parliamentary question , tonight ' s Adjournment debate or the recent Westminster Hall debate . as it stand , although the use of undergrounding be the starting presumption in nationally designate area — national park or area of outstanding natural beauty — to protect those landscape , overhead line be the strong starting presumption . in theory , that remain flexible . undergrounding may be use in other area in certain circumstance , namely where there be a high potential for widespread adverse landscape or visual impact . such decision will be weigh up through the planning process . the Secretary of State and I be mindful of the constructive challenge make by colleague , whether individually or in their sub - group . offset — offshore electricity grid task force — be one of those group . on my first day in the Department , I think it be just another WhatsApp group I have not be invite to join , but it be a powerful group of conservative colleague make sure that their community ' voice be hear . on the back of that , this week I meet my hon . friend the Member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) , who have detail and extensive knowledge of future opportunity that could and should be consider . we have a deep dive discussion about overhead cable be the strong starting presumption , which in simple term be base on the cost , as per the electricity system operator ' s 2012 figure . I be sure that the House would recognise that , since 2012 , significant advance have be make to new technology . as have be mention , Germany have already make underground cable the default . the ESO ' s own recent figure for the East Anglia study suggest that , when consider lifetime cost — not just the up - front cost but the potential for long - term low constraint cost — and challenge around delivery speed , each variable raise important question . we can not answer with certainty whether those question be valid , because the datum simply do not exist . if we be to let community ' voice be hear and champion by my hon . friend , those community would expect at the very least that we have those answer , not just to protect their community but to ensure that we deliver on our commitment , as we race towards our net zero target , to lower consumer bill . we have to take the public with we , or we lose everything . at that meeting , we be mindful to explore how we could carry out an urgent review to consider those variable and challenge those long - stand presumption . you may have notice , Mr Deputy Speaker , an announcement this week that may delay what we have hope would be an urgent review . whoever be in government when we return , they need to ensure that they get the fact . this review be an opportunity to ensure that community ' voice have be listen to , and that we champion the good value for money for bill payer . I will continue to support that . the Minister be very generous about I at the beginning of the debate , but what he miss out in his generosity be the fact that one of the big privilege I have have in this Parliament be live with he for a period as his flatmate . I should make it clear that I be the clean one . the Minister be a great friend of mine , but he be also a very good Minister and a really decent chap — and obviously my two colleague from north Lincolnshire , my hon . friend the Members for Cleethorpes ( Martin Vickers ) and for Great Grimsby ( Lia Nici ) , be fantastic champion for our area on this issue — what at about the rest ? of course there be those in broad Lincolnshire ; I be talk about north Lincolnshire . the really important point be the one that the Minister be make just now . our constituent feel that this be something that have be do to they . they understand that we must increase our grid capacity , but they feel that it must be do in a way that make they feel that they have have a voice , that it have not be do to they , and that every single option have be consider . my hon . friend have sum up exactly the point of this . it be a tribute to each and every one of my colleague , who have be constructive and have engage in a pragmatic way . whoever be in my position when we return after the election should take forward this opportunity to conduct a review to ensure that community ' voice be hear and we deliver those cheap community option . I greatly appreciate what the Minister be say . he be show great wisdom and have grasp all the issue , even though he have be in the role for a relatively short time . there be problem in that connection be still be offer for station that have not even be grant planning permission , but the key point that I want to make to the Minister relate to what be happen in the middle of the consultation and planning process . before he leave office — and he will continue to be a Minister at least until the decision of the electorate on who will form the next government — will he and the Secretary of State please make every effort to ensure that Members of Parliament do not lose their voice in the consultation , and that , if necessary , the Planning Inspectorate be instruct to add time in recognition of the pre - election period that be under way ? my right hon . friend be a wonderful boss when I have the pleasure of serve under her stewardship in the Department for Work and Pensions . she have make her plea crystal clear , and I hope that common sense will be apply . in effect , thing be pause during a general election period , and whatever the format and whoever be the decision maker , that person should always be mindful of community engagement . that bring I back to the core point : the review give we an opportunity to obtain up - to - date fact , recognise modern technology and the lesson that can be learn from Germany , and recognise the lifetime cost so that we can be confident that we be do our good to deliver low consumer bill , which be crucial not just to help with the cost of living but to ensure that we carry the public with we in respect of net zero . I be grateful to my hon . friend for his endorsement of OffSET . it be encouraging to find that we have have a bit of influence . will he clarify , however , whether this background work will be continue during the general election period so that it be ready for an incoming Minister , whether it be he return to office or another Minister ? tempt as it be to bind a future government , I can not do so , although I know that my policy team feel it be important to look at those principle . what I can and will do , however , be ensure that I be part of the process after the general election . as this be the last Adjournment debate of this Parliament , I congratulate Martin Vickers and Justin Tomlinson . they say that " there be Nothin ' like a Dame " . well , there be — two dame . I have work alongside two dame for the past four and half year , Rosie Winterton and Eleanor Laing , and they have be absolutely superb . we have work as an incredible team , along with Sir Lindsay Hoyle , who have be the good Speaker I have ever work under or alongside . he too have be absolutely superb , along with Sir Roger Gale , who have give we tremendous support over the past several month . I just have to say what an emotional time this be , because I do not know what tomorrow will bring — I do not know whether or not I will be in the Chair — and I want to put on record my grateful thank to all those people . let I also ask the Serjeant at arm to pass on my grateful thank to the staff who have look after we for the past four and a half year , ensure that our democracy have continue in the way that it have . question put and agree to . House adjourn .