business before Questions Norwich Livestock Market Bill [ Lords ] Bill read a second time . oral Answers to Questions Business and Trade the Secretary of State be ask — Trade Agreements Programme what assessment he have make of the effectiveness of the UK ' s trade agreement programme . what assessment he have make of the effectiveness of the UK ' s trade agreement programme . the UK ' s recent trade agreement with India , the United States and the European Union confirm that , under this government , Britain be back and open for business . these deal open market and cut tariff and will contribute to growth across the United Kingdom . for example , our deal with the EU — our close and large trading partner — contribute to our promise to reset our relation with our friend and neighbour in Europe . the sanitary and phytosanitary measure and the emission trading system measure announce at the summit could increase UK gdp by nearly £ 9 billion by 2040 . Cumbernauld be fast become a centre for advanced manufacturing , with too many company to name base themselves there . will the Minister set out how the UK ' s trade agreement be help such company to expand into new market , create growth and job in place such as Cumbernauld ? what step be be take to ensure that more scottish manufacturer can take advantage of these deal ? I pay tribute to Cumbernauld ' s advanced manufacturing capability . it be estimate that the UK - India free trade agreement will boost the whole UK economy by £ 4 . 8 billion and grow trade with India by over £ 25 billion annually . the Scotch Whisky Association forecast £ 1 billion in extra export and 1 , 200 new job . for Irn - Bru , which I understand be headquarter in my hon . friend ' s constituency , the agreement also remove India ' s 33 % tariff on UK soft drink . this India deal be deliver in the UK as a result of the hard work of our negotiator and the leadership of the Secretary of State , and it will benefit exporter and advanced manufacturer right across our country . luxury knitwear product from Alex Begg , base in my Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock constituency , be a great example of quality scottish export , and it have a great reputation in lead fashion house across the world . like many business , Alex Begg be happy to see that good UK trade deal be back in fashion . will the Minister join I in visit Alex Begg in Ayr to hear about the importance of trade deal to local business with global ambition ? I pay tribute to the craftsmanship and global ambition of Alex Begg in Ayr . my mother ' s side of the family be all from Ayrshire , so it would be a personal pleasure to visit Ayrshire , as my hon . friend suggest . I would suggest that we could visit Alex Begg during the summer recess , but then again , as Billy Connolly once observe : " there be two season in Scotland : June and winter . " yesterday the Chancellor champion the Government ' s suppose trade deal with the United States , but that trade deal be not yet complete . we know that because no impact assessment have be publish . why be the Government pop the champagne prematurely , and have they do an impact assessment on any of the ongoing negotiation ? I be grateful that at least one of the opposition party accept that there be a deal . the hon . member be right to recognise that the implementation phase be what we be now relentlessly focus on . I be sure the House will be aware of the statement issue overnight by US Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnick , confirm that the US will expedite the agree quota for car export to the United States , reduce tariff from 27 . 5 % to 10 % . the Government continue to work on this important deal . the UK have a trade agreement with Israel that permit the import of good produce in illegal settlement . such good be effectively proceed of crime , give that settlement constitute illegal expropriation of palestinian land . how can the UK justify this complicity in trade of illegally produce good , and when will we finally see a ban on the import of any settlement good ? the hon . Lady raise a critical issue . the british Government have a long - stand opposition to the illegal occupation of land in the palestinian territory , principally in the west bank . we have be clear and consistent that , on the ground of international law , the responsibility lie with the Israelis to resolve these issue . on the point she raise , it be a significant and contentious enough issue . I will be happy to write to she , but it have be clear for many year that we oppose the settlement and continue to do so . I call the shadow Minister . the gov . uk website , which have not be update since 8 May , state that the Prime Minister negotiate the 25 % steel tariff down to zero , but that be not right , be it ? steel face a tariff of 25 % today and run the risk of a 50 % tariff be impose next month . will the Minister take this opportunity to commit to update the website , update this House and update steelworker on the state of the negotiation ? I be very happy to consider the issue that the hon . Lady raise in relation to the website , but I can assure she that , whether it be the Minister for Industry or the Secretary of State for Business and Trade , the Government be in constant dialogue with the british steel industry . we will introduce a steel strategy , unlike her predecessor , and we have put serious money behind it . thank to the economic prosperity deal with the United States , the UK be the only country to be make exempt from the 50 % tariff on steel and aluminium that other country around the world now face . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Liberal Democrats have long call for a close trading relationship with Europe after the disastrous negotiation by the previous Conservative Government . we welcome last month ' s new trade agreement , include an agrifood deal establish a UK - EU sanitary and phytosanitary zone . the EU be our large agrifood market , but since Brexit export be down by 21 % and import be down by 7 % . the introduction of an SPS agreement will provide welcome relief to many business by reduce cost through the removal of border check and reduce many certificate requirement , such as for export health certificate . however , business and producer can not plan without clarity , so will the Minister set out a timeline on when we can expect the SPS deal to be implement ? I sympathise with a lot of what the hon . Lady have say . she be right to recognise that post Brexit we have broadly overperforme in service , relative to expectation , but significantly underperformed in term of good export . that be in no small measure because a number of food and agriculture producer be bury in red tape and new paperwork . that be exactly why , as she suggest , the SPS deal be critical . again , I welcome the fact that , for the second time today , we be be challenge to go far and fast on deal that we have deliver . I can assure she that , as I have say in relation to the United States , we take seriously our responsibility on the implementation of SPS , but that place responsibility on the British Government and , in this case , on the European Commission . UK - India Free Trade Agreement what assessment he have make of the potential impact of the UK - India free trade agreement on the economy . what assessment have he make of the potential impact of the UK - India free trade agreement on the economy . this trade agreement be a huge economic win for the UK — the big trade deal since Brexit and the good deal that India have ever offer . as we have hear , it be estimate to increase bilateral trade by £ 25 . 5 billion , UK gdp by £ 4 . 8 billion and wage by £ 2 . 2 billion each year in the long run . it will mean new opportunity for business in every part of the United Kingdom . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be have some import - export issue myself , as my first book , a provocative and racy thriller , be be publish in India in July . what ' s it call ? it be call " 30th state " . may I congratulate the Secretary of State and former colleague on this deal , which be great for whisky distillery such as Lochlea in my constituency . when I be trade commissioner , Conservative Ministers be clamour for a trade deal with India . will my right hon . Friend tell the House how he have manage to do it one year after they fail miserably ? I be extremely grateful for that question . I acknowledge my hon . friend ' s considerable expertise and service to this country through his commendable work as trade commissioner . I hope that he will advise we all on how to get a copy of his book — perhaps a copy could be place in the Library . he be right to say that this be a great deal for every part of the UK . it be particularly strong for Scotland , give the iconic reduction in the tariff on Scotch whisky for the Lochlea distillery , and it be strong on scottish salmon and service . these deal come down to a lot of work not just from the ministerial team but from the whole departmental team . I pay tribute to they and my official for all their important work in this matter . last week I have the privilege of visit A & M Pure Precision , a long - establish local firm in my Smethwick constituency that specialise in designing , develop , testing and machining complex precision component in a range of material for sector include aerospace , automotive , motorsport , space and unmanned aerial vehicle engine system . give the importance of advanced manufacturing to the local economy , what assessment have the Secretary of State make of how the UK - India free trade agreement — and indeed other agreement — could create new opportunity for such firm and support wide economic growth in the west midland ? what a privilege it must be for my hon . friend to represent a constituency with so many essential business do such brilliant work for this country . on advanced manufacturing , he be right to say that a set of advantageous position have be agree , put this country at a genuine competitive advantage , particularly in relation to sector such as automotive and machinery , which I would expect his constituency to benefit from . India be traditionally a very protectionist economy , and it be the world ' s fast grow big economy . whether it be for good or service , A & M Pure Precision or the west midland as a whole , there be so much good stuff here to celebrate . the Minister can expect an autographed copy of the book by the hon . member for Central Ayrshire ( Alan Gemmell ) to be spin its way towards his office as we speak . I very much welcome the UK - India free trade agreement . it be good news , but Northern Ireland have a particular protocol issue . I know that the Minister be keen — I know it for a fact , because his answer be always good — that Northern Ireland can receive the same benefit as the rest of the United Kingdom : England , Scotland and Wales . can he assure we that we in Northern Ireland will also be benefactor ? I appreciate the hon . member ' s kind word . he will know that ensure that everything my Department do work for Northern Ireland be a personal priority for I and for the ministerial team . in relation to export , I can assure he that Northern Ireland will benefit from the advantageous position that the whole United Kingdom be in . we do have issue in make sure the more complex regulatory position from the protocol in Northern Ireland be work in the good possible way . there be very strong reason for make that work well , if we can do so , and he have my commitment that we will seek to do that . support for entrepreneur what step his Department be take to support entrepreneur . what support his Department plan to provide to entrepreneurship incubator in town . the Government continue to support entrepreneur through start - up loan via the British Business Bank and through programme such as growth hub in England and " help to grow : management " training across the UK . later this year we will publish our small and medium - sized enterprise strategy , one key element of which will be to signal our determination to do even more to champion our entrepreneur , include through a new vision for business support , build around the come business growth service . you will be pleased to know that I do not have a book come out , Mr Speaker . I be read the one that my hon . friend the Member for Central Ayrshire ( Alan Gemmell ) have write , and it be excellent , but I should probably say on his behalf that any likeness to character in this place be entirely coincidental . I thank the Minister for his response . I have see at first hand his commitment to support Britain ' s entrepreneurial spirit , but I worry that on the Isle of Wight unreliable cross - solent transport be hold back entrepreneur . local business do not lack ambition ; they lack a dependable link to their supply chain . some be even consider leave the island . will the Minister meet I to discuss a long - term solution to cross - solent travel that support , rather than punishe , island business ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s commitment to championing entrepreneur on the Isle of Wight . we know that there be huge untapped potential in the entrepreneurial talent across the UK , and we be determined to do even more to unlock it , include on the Isle of Wight . as he will know , the Department for Transport , which lead on cross - solent travel , have be clear that ferry service to and from the Isle of Wight be vital for islander and for business . I know he have already have some contact with ministerial colleague at the Department for Transport to discuss these issue , but if he think I can be helpful , I will be happy to meet he . town like Rugby have a proud industrial heritage and an exciting present , and we be build a dynamic and sustainable business and industrial future . it be very welcome that the Chancellor revise the Green Book to make sure that investment and economic growth be spread more fairly across the country , beyond the major city region . can my hon . friend set out what support may be available for town like Rugby to attract and encourage people to start and grow their own business — for example , entrepreneurship hub in town rather than city , so that they can play a role , and target tax relief for firm set up in place like Rugby ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s commitment to championing entrepreneur in his constituency . he may know that we already have some 41 growth hub across England , include the Coventry and Warwickshire growth hub , which provide a bespoke service for first - time entrepreneur , tailor advice and support to start - up and those want to scale up a business . we be determined to do more to help entrepreneur and will set out our plan in our SME strategy , which be due to be publish relatively shortly . I recently meet a load of entrepreneur and small business in Mid Leicestershire who all have the same concern about the low vat registration threshold of just £ 90 , 000 . that be stifle their growth , because it add a lot of bureaucracy and cost . what representation will the Minister make to the Chancellor to ensure that those small business can flourish ? the hon . Gentleman will not be surprised to know that we receive representation on the vat threshold from a number of small business , and we ensure that they be hear by Treasury colleague . he will recognise that VAT raise a significant sum of money for the public finance , and give the mess that we inherit , we have to take some difficult decision about those public finance to protect funding for hospital in his constituency , and indeed other public service across the country . recently impose general product safety regulation have add yet another layer of cost and complexity to export to the European Union . that be particularly hit entrepreneur and microbusinesse , many of which have have to end export to their EU customer . do the Department have any discussion with its EU counterpart during recent trade negotiation about exempt small and microbusinesse from those rule ? if not , be it do any work to support small business in particular , which have have to end export to EU customer because of the new regulation ? we have be talk to business about what they can do in the light of the new regulation , and we be in the process of improve significantly the range of support available to business online . the Secretary of State recently set out our plan for a new business growth service , which will significantly improve the speed and quality of advice that business can get from the Government . employment Costs what step he be take to help reduce employment cost for employer . what step he be take to help reduce employment cost for employer . the Employment Rights Bill be the next phase of deliver our plan to make work pay . the Bill be both pro - worker and pro - business , and will see significant benefit for employer . for example , increase worker wellbee could be worth billion of pound a year . the Bill will also reduce workplace conflict , which , accord to a report publish by ACAS in 2021 , cost employer around £ 30 billion a year . the Bill will level the play field so that those employer who be engage in good business practice be not force into a race to the bottom . yesterday , Scotbeef announce the closure of its abattoir in Inverurie in my Gordon and Buchan constituency , with 90 job loss and another blow to agriculture in north - east Scotland . it blame rise cost . in April the increase to national insurance contribution come in — a huge tax rise on business — and the Office for Budget Responsibility have show that 109 , 000 job be lose in May , which be the high monthly figure in five year . it can not be a coincidence that that happen the month after the NICs increase . how be the Minister ' s Department support business and job in sector such as agriculture , which be have to deal with huge cost increase because of his Government ' s decision ? I be very sorry to hear the news from the hon . Lady ' s constituency . it be the case that 667 , 000 more people be in work compare with this time last year , and 300 , 000 few people be economically inactive . I be rather surprised that she mention the national insurance hike , because the Leader of the Opposition be on the radio this morning and be repeatedly ask to confirm whether that hike would be reverse . she fail to do so , and it seem to I that the opposition be in opposition to themselves . the Minister seem to be in denial . as a former entrepreneur , I visit lot of business in my constituency , and I talk to they about their fear . not a single one have anything positive to say about the Employment Rights Bill — indeed , they be concerned that it will reduce employment , not increase it , and it have be estimate that it will increase cost by more than £ 5 billion . the Minister have be ask this before , so he have have a lot of time to think about it : can he name a single business that publicly support the Employment Rights Bill ? I can certainly name a number . I also refer the hon . member to Hansard on Tuesday 11 March , column 953 , where I name a small business . a number of other business have be in support : Centrica , Co - op , Richer Sounds , Nationwide , Adept , one + all , Pedal I , Inkwell — there be many business that we talk to on a regular basis and that understand that treat staff well be a good thing for those business . it be a pro - growth , pro - worker measure . on 12 June 1996 , a Conservative Minister stand at the Government Dispatch Box and say : " labour ' s minimum wage would cost hundred of thousand of job " . — [ Official Report , 12 June 1996 ; Vol . 279 , c . 248 . ] they be wrong then and they be wrong now . with particular focus on the Teesside region , what step be the Government take to bring more well - pay job to people to make sure they can spend more in our local economy ? my hon . friend be absolutely right : there be so many echo of the minimum wage debate , it be uncanny . as time have show , the minimum wage have raise living standard in this country and it be something we be very proud to have implement . we be look to bring more investment across the economy . recent survey have show that business confidence be increase as a result of decision make by this Labour Government . I call the shadow Minister . as my hon . friend the Member for Gordon and Buchan ( Harriet Cross ) make clear early , the ONS statistic be very clear : 109 , 000 few on payroll in May alone and 276 , 000 few since the autumn Budget . as ukhospitality point out , the NICs change be " feel most intensely by foundational sector like hospitality , " which " necessitate an urgent review " . my question to the Minister be simple : where will his red line sit ? how many more job have to come off payroll before the Department for Business and Trade will stand up to the Treasury on this ? another 100 , 000 ? a million ? where be the line ? again , it be interesting that those on the Conservative Front Bench do not seem to be in agreement with their own leader any more about the national insurance hike . I will just point out some statistic to the hon . member : the International Monetary Fund have predict that growth will increase this year and the Lloyds business barometer find that business confidence be up . we be put money back into people ' s pocket and invest in this country . we be do thing that the Conservatives fail to do for 14 year and that be why they be out of power . small business : export what step his Department be take to encourage small business to export . just last month , we relaunche the Board of Trade to focus on the target support and help that small business need to take up opportunity from the UK ' s free trade agreement . the recent trade deal with India , the United States and the European Union aim to reduce red tape , improve custom process , slash tariff and open new market for small exporter up and down the UK . small business — like Rezon in my constituency , which make groundbreake brain protection sport headwear — be work hard to grow and export , but it be often hard to know where to get the right advice . what practical support be the Government give to small business to help they export and take full advantage of those trade deal ? I thank my hon . friend for her question and for the opportunity to attend a wide - range roundtable with local business in her constituency , at the end of last year . our new workshop , " introduction to Export " , be in collaboration with the North East combine authority , and be aim specifically at help local small business that be think about export to new market for the first time . a range of other support be available on the Government website , and that will be significantly improve as a result of the come business growth service . high Street Businesses what step he be take to support high street business . we have announce plan to reform business rate , launch high street rental auction power for council that will help business to access currently vacant property , work with industry to open over 150 banking hub , and introduce the Crime and Policing Bill to provide retailer with great protection from assault and shoplifting . our forthcoming small and medium - sized enterprise strategy will set out our further plan to help business on the high street and beyond . Chester South and Eddisbury be home to some truly special high street , line with independent shop and pub that play a vital role in the life of our community . I have speak to local business owner , especially in hospitality , who be already feel the pressure . follow the spending review , the chief executive of ukhospitality say that " the overwhelming challenge hold back hospitality from meet its potential be the current tax burden " . do the Minister accept that unless action be take to ease the burden on high street business , especially in hospitality , the Government risk undermine the very community they claim to support ? I say gently to the hon . Lady that when she have the conversation that she say she have with business in her constituency , I be sure she point out the huge economic mess that this Government inherit and the £ 22 billion black hole in public finance . that be why the Chancellor of the Exchequer have to make some very difficult decision in last year ' s Budget . we have set out a series of plan that will make a genuine difference on our high street , include new opportunity to persuade landlord to open up premise for rent . we will set out further plan in the come small business strategy , and our industrial strategy will also help to generate growth in high street and beyond . the town of Burntwood in my constituency have a high street that have be struggle after 14 year of neglect by the Conservatives . one of the thing hold Burntwood back be the lack of access to high street bank . will the Minister update we on what the Department be do to support access to banking in our high street as a key pillar of drive the regeneration of high street like the one in Burntwood ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to focus on the need for face - to - face banking in community and high street up and down the country . we be commit to work with the bank to roll out 350 banking hub by the end of this Parliament , but we also think that the Post Office can do more to help to improve access to banking service . on the particular issue in his constituency , if it would be helpful , I would be very happy to sit down and talk to he about what else he might be able to do to secure a banking hub for his constituent . I call the shadow Minister . the Retail Jobs Alliance be very clear in its warning that the Government ' s change to business rate will " accelerate the decline of high street , reduce footfall … and create a cycle of economic downturn . " that letter be also sign by the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers — a labour - affiliate trade union . once again , the Minister and the Department for Business and Trade have a choice . will they stand up for high street retailer , actual employer and even their own affiliate trade union , or will they just go along with Treasury diktat ? once upon a time , the Conservatives support business rate reform to help the high street ; the hon . Gentleman now seem to be shift his party ' s policy . indeed , time after time his Government promise that they would reform business rate , but one of the reason they lose the confidence of british business at the last election be because they do not act to reform business rate . we have say that we will introduce permanently low business rate for retail , hospitality and leisure . the Chancellor of the Exchequer set out our initial thought on that in the Budget in October , and we will publish an update on where we be on that issue in the come month . we support business rate reform , but when Labour ' s own trade union say that its plan be not go to work , Ministers should really sit up and listen . let I turn to another issue affect our high street : shoplifting — which continue to devastate many high street retailer . I see that in my own constituency in high street in Princes Risborough , Wendover and Great Missenden . how be the Minister actively engage with the Home Office , police and crime commissioner and police force to move shoplift up the agenda across the board , just as my home force of Thames Valley have do with its Disc scheme ? before he come back with police number , let I tell he that there be more police in Thames Valley than ever before , let alone since 2010 . just talk the talk on number be not enough . what be he go to do proactively to make this issue go up the agenda ? I think the hon . Gentleman , in his own way , be congratulate the Government on increase police number in his constituency , and he be certainly right to do so . we have commit to an extra 3 , 000 police officer over the course of this financial year and a total of an extra 13 , 000 by the end of this Parliament . we be also take action to end the immunity that his party introduce for shoplifter and take step to increase the power that the police have to take action when shoplifter and other be violent against retail staff . support for Small Businesses what step he be take to support small business . what step he be take to support small business . what step he be take to support small business in Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes constituency . our small business strategy will be publish later this year and will set out our plan to champion entrepreneur , improve access to finance and help small and medium - sized enterprise to reach more market and adopt new technology . as I allude to early , we be develop our plan for our new business growth service , simplify access to support and advice for small business . we be also tackle the challenge of late payment , include the introduction of a new fair payment code and upcoming legislation require large company to report annually on their payment performance . in Aylesbury town centre , we have some fantastic business , from Darlington ' s to the Rockwood pub and Nafees bakery . they provide an amazing service to the community , but with issue such as traffic , parking and antisocial behaviour , they can struggle to get customer into town and through their door . I congratulate the Minister on the work he be do , but can he tell we more about how his small business strategy will support our high street and town centre , like Aylesbury , to thrive ? I very much enjoy my visit to my hon . friend ' s constituency and the roundtable we have with some of the fantastic business there . I very much hope that Conservative - control Buckinghamshire council will finally get its act together and sort out some of the traffic and parking issue she mention . we will set out our plan to do more to help small business across the country , include in Aylesbury , in our SME strategy . one particular measure that we will be able to take action on be to improve access to finance for small business , follow the Chancellor of the Exchequer ' s significant increase in the capacity of the British Business Bank yesterday . small business on our high street across my constituency , from Earl ' s Court Road to Queensway , Notting Hill Gate and Portobello Road , be feed up of be blight by candy shop , low - grade souvenir shop , Harry Potter shop and even barbershop , with accusation of vat and business rate evasion and even link to money laundering and serious organise crime . can the Minister outline what step the Department be take , in conjunction with the Minister responsible for high street , his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs and the National Crime Agency , to crack down on these operation and create a legitimate level playing field for our small business ? I recognise that my hon . friend have be very persistent on this issue , and he be entirely right to be so . we have be work with colleague in the Home Office and the National Crime Agency to take action to crack down on illegitimate business that threaten to undermine the legitimate one that exist on all of our high street . in March , the National Economic Crime Centre co - ordinate a three - week crackdown on barbershop and other cash - intensive business where there be concern , visit almost 400 premise and secure freeze order over a series of bank account total more than £ 1 million . I thank the Minister for his answer , but I really do need to press he , because my constituent in Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes be as feed up as those of my hon . friend the Member for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) with see high street dominate by dodgy vape shop and unlicensed barber . while some of those business be legitimate , a recent BBC investigative report show that many be involve in money laundering and organised crime . obviously , the Minister be aware of the situation , but be he work closely with the Home Office to try to tackle this blight ? we probably need a national strategy , not a three - week operation . my hon . friend be right to say that this be not just an issue for our high street , such as those mention by our hon . friend the Member for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) , but a concern up and down the country . the National Crime Agency and Home Office colleague be seek to take action against illegitimate business , and my hon . friend will recognise that the announcement in yesterday ' s spend review of additional police officer , with more to come over the spending review period , will help we with that activity . if the book that the hon . member for Central Ayrshire ( Alan Gemmell ) have write be a political thriller about fight for small business , I be sure it feature five hero on the Government Front Bench do everything they can to promote small business . but reader will ask , " who be the villain of the piece ? " be it not obvious that it be the Chancellor of the Exchequer , who be do everything possible to undermine business , with 276 , 000 people have lose work since the autumn statement , and 109 , 000 in the month of May alone ? when will the Ministers — the hero of this story — fight against the Chancellor , who be get so much so wrong ? it be a little while since I have be call a hero by the right hon . Gentleman , but I be glad that I have finally have some recognition from he . I do not think that the Chancellor of the Exchequer be a villain at all ; indeed , I think the spending review she announce yesterday will help to unlock investment in our high street and our small business up and down the country . the record investment in research and development and in infrastructure , and the additional capacity for the British Business Bank , will help to unlock billion of pound of new investment and many more job opportunity across the country . Charlotte from Harpenden and her family run Gatwards , one of the old family - run jeweller in the UK . it be a small business that have be there for so many year , but it have be hit by the rise in national insurance contribution and change to business property relief and inheritance tax , mean that it will shelve plan to hire staff and the premise be in peril . will the Minister work with the Treasury to review the impact of these policy on small business and our high street ? we will always work across Government with the Treasury to look at issue that affect business , whether on the high street or beyond . in the discussion the hon . Member have have with the particular business in her constituency , I be sure she will have note our plan to reform business rate , which will help many business in the retail , hospitality and leisure sector . she will also have note that more than 40 % of business will pay no business rate in the come year . Lky7 Sports be a small cycle and nutrition business in Ashford in my constituency . it have be hammer by the loss of small business rate relief , and write to I yesterday say : " the Government say that they be help small business , but this be a joke when our business rate have go from nothing to £ 1 , 800 . we be seriously consider close the shop down . " what advice do the Minister have for that boss ? I be sure that the hon . Gentleman — I say this gently to he — will have explain to that particular business that we inherit a very difficult economic situation because of the decision that his party take , include on tax , but our small business strategy will set out more plan to help small business , such as the one in his constituency . our business rate relief package will make a significant difference for retail , hospitality and leisure . [ interruption . ] he ask when we will publish the small business strategy — it will be shortly . Industrial Strategy what progress his Department have make on develop an industrial strategy . what progress his Department have make on develop an industrial strategy . the Department be make good progress develop our industrial strategy — a strategy that have be call for by industry for many year and oppose by the Conservatives for ideological reason . we have launch our consultation , we have meet industry and thousand of business across the land , and we be finalise our report , which we will be publish shortly . the spending review announcement yesterday on investment will add to the business growth in the country that we all want to see . british bus manufacturer Alexander Dennis announce yesterday that it be consolidate its operation in the UK to its scarborough facility , place 400 job in Falkirk at risk . the company be warn about competitive imbalance , the increase market share of chinese bus manufacturer and an absence of incentive for British - build vehicle . how be the Government plan to support british bus manufacturer as part of our industrial strategy ? this be a challenging and difficult time for the worker and their family at Alexander Dennis , as well as for the local area . as member would expect , I have engage extensively with ADL ' s senior executive alongside the Secretary of State for Scotland , the Department for Transport and the First Minister of Scotland to discuss what we can do to support . we write jointly to the company , offer to support it in any way we can . there be many issue that we try to talk through with its representative . bus manufacturing sit with the Department for Transport , so it be take the lead , but we be work together to do what we can . do the Secretary of State and the Minister agree that the industrial town and village that make up Lanarkshire must be central to any modern industrial strategy ? will they meet I , potentially in Airdrie and Shotts , to hear more about the excellent skill and potential that exist throughout the constituency that could undoubtedly contribute to their and this Government ' s ambitious work ? of course , our industrial strategy will speak to the whole country about the way that we be support business to grow and thrive . we have identify eight growth - drive sector as the arrowhead of growth , but there be also policy that we believe will lift the whole country . I would be delighted to meet my hon . friend . I congratulate he on the support that the local community show in the recent Hamilton by - election , and look forward to talk to he far . as part of the Government ' s industrial strategy , will the Minister and her colleague in the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology carefully consider Somerset ' s bid for an artificial intelligence growth zone ? its unique advantage — the Gravity local development order , and its exist connection to the grid — make it an ideal location to boost job and growth . we have very big ambition for AI and growth across the country , and I be very happy to talk to the hon . Gentleman about his proposal . I be sure that he have already talk to colleague in DSIT , but I be very happy to take this matter far . Cyber - security will be a key pillar in the industrial strategy . that be welcome news in my constituency of Cheltenham , which be already a centre of excellence in the sector . we be on the cusp of unlock £ 1 billion - worth of investment at the Golden Valley development in west Cheltenham . I know Ministers be aware of that , as be their colleague in many other Departments . a planning application be expect very soon . will Ministers join I in urge the two council — the borough council and the county council — to get on with it and unlock that investment , which will bring growth to Cheltenham and the nation and , crucially , support defence as well ? as the hon . Gentleman will know , we be do what we can to unlock the planning challenge that people have face for many year in a whole range of area . we be introduce legislation to do that , and make several change . I obviously can not comment on specific planning proposal in his area , but he should be reassure that we be do what we can to encourage growth . I call the shadow Minister . we have be promise a modern industrial strategy for nearly a year . first , it be go to be with we in the spring ; then it be go to be publish at the spending review ; and now it will be here " shortly " . the industrial strategy seem to be a strategy to clobber industry with high taxis and high business rate . will the modern industrial strategy have great longevity than the Office for Investment ? it be announce in October , and we be not give an update until last Thursday , when it launch . yesterday , we be tell in the spending review that it be now be restructure . what be the future for the Office for Investment ? I can guarantee the hon . Lady that our industrial strategy will have a long shelf life than hers do ; I think it last 18 month — I be not entirely sure . we forget , because it do not have much of an impact . we have work with all industry across the country to put together a comprehensive package that will make it easy to do business in the UK , and support our city region and cluster across the country , where we have excellent industry . it will turbocharge the eight growth sector , and it will make the government more agile in interact with business . that be why we be reform the Office for Investment , as we have always say we will . it be now a significantly more substantial organisation , and will give significantly more support . the hon . Lady should look at — Order . I be really bother , because we have only get to question 8 , and I still need to call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Liberal Democrats welcome yesterday ' s announcement from the Chancellor on investment in public infrastructure project . however , the general secretary of the Prospect trade union have warn that the UK lack the skilled worker require for the new defence and nuclear project outline by the Chancellor . similarly , make UK and the Federation of Small Businesses have highlight that a shortage of skilled worker would be a critical stumbling block for growth . as we continue to await the much - anticipate industrial strategy , why be the Government move funding away from level 7 apprenticeship , when we know that they support social mobility ? more broadly , why do they not seize the opportunity in yesterday ' s statement to commit to fix the apprenticeship levy , to ensure that money be invest in skill and training ? forgive I for my long answer , Mr Speaker , but there be a lot to talk about in the industrial strategy , and I like to talk about it . the hon . Lady raise an important point . there be a significant skill challenge , and we will not shy away from it . yesterday , £ 1 . 2 billion for skill be announce in the spending review . we have announce £ 600 million for construction skill , because that be a big issue for build the infrastructure that we need . we know we need to go far , and we be work closely with industry on how we can use the resource we have to recruit the welder , engineer — order . if there be so much to say , the Minister should bring forward a statement , or let we have a debate on this very important subject . I do not know how she will explain to mps that they will not get in , because I be now go to topical . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . since our last oral question time , we have secure three major trade agreement to boost british export and drive growth across the UK . this government be deliver trade deal that benefit business and put money in worker ’ pocket , and be secure deal that other government promise , but fail to deliver . we have an agreement with our large trading partner , with the big economy in the world , and with the fast - grow big economy in the world . as we have hear , the India deal alone will boost wage by £ 2 . 2 billion a year when fully operational . our new strategic partnership with the EU could add nearly £ 9 billion to our economy by 2040 , and the UK be of course the first country to secure a deal with President Trump . I can also confirm that in the past week , we have host delegation from the US and China , in order to assist they in their negotiation with each other . as I have always say , under this Government , the UK will be the most open and well - connect economy in the world . I congratulate the Secretary of State on his excellent work . the Government ' s decision to suspend their trade negotiation with the israeli Government last month be absolutely the right one , but some constituent have be in touch in confusion after trade envoy Ian Austin ' s visit still go ahead . can the Secretary of State affirm that this Government ' s position be that we will not be deepen our trade tie with the israeli Government while the situation in Gaza and the west bank remain so appalling ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for that question . yes , I can reaffirm that position . as she say , the Foreign Secretary announce on 20 May that we have suspend negotiation on an upgrade free trade agreement with Israel in response to the egregious action of the Netanyahu Government in Gaza and the west bank . of course , the UK have exist business relationship with Israel that be not affect by that decision , and we maintain trade envoy with both Israel and the palestinian territory . what we all want be peace , a two - state solution and a strong UK relationship with both state . I call the shadow Minister . postmaster who be hit by the Horizon scandal will be concern to hear Sir Alan Bates describe the compensation process as a " quasi - kangaroo court " . can the Minister reassure postmaster about the redress that they be due , and reassure taxpayer about the redress that he be seek from Fujitsu ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question , and she be absolutely right to draw attention to the continue need to speed up compensation to sub - postmaster . since we come into government , we have increase fourfold the amount of compensation pay to sub - postmaster , but there be an awful lot more to do . on the issue that Sir Alan Bates raise , the hon . Lady will know that under the group litigation order scheme , through which his compensation issue be be address , there be various independent point on the journey at which to consider the offer — order . if minister do not want member to get in , please will they say so , because they be take all the time from Back Benchers , which be really unfair to they ? back Benchers have put forward their name and come here to ask question , and Ministers be just enjoy themselves too much . this week , the Government have announce £ 86 billion for research and development . recently , I visit PROTO and Digital Catapult in my constituency . do the Minister agree with I that this sort of investment be exactly what Gateshead , the north - east and our country need ? I completely agree with my hon . friend . I know that he will do what he can to promote his constituency , and the extra funding for the British Business Bank will really support his area . in the US trade agreement , the Prime Minister give access to the UK market for 1 . 4 billion litre of US bioethanol . the Secretary of State will know that that be the entire size of the UK market . yesterday , apprentice come here from Vivergo in my constituency . the hundred of people directly employ there , and the thousand in the supply chain , wonder how this Government , on the verge of produce an industrial strategy , can want to abandon the nascent bioethanol industry in this country entirely . what will he do to stop that ? I understand the prominence of the issue in the right hon . member ' s constituency . we already import a significant amount of ethanol from the US : 860 , 000 tonne of bioethanol . we recognise the competitive pressure that the US trade deal will bring — it be obviously not yet in operation — and have meet the company affect and continue to negotiate with they . they be already very distressed and lose significant amount of money , so what they really need be regulatory change from the Department for Transport for the market as a whole . I can assure he that we be work on that . Rusty ' s Collectables be a great new addition to redditch high street , offer unique item such as Pok é mon and Marvel collectable . Owners Russell and Amee have successfully move from online to the high street . can the Minister explain how the Government will help more entrepreneur like they to turn great idea into high - street business ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . through our small business strategy , we will set out very shortly further plan to support business to get on the high street . the increase in money in the British Business Bank , announce yesterday by the Chancellor , will also significantly increase access to finance for such business . I call Sarah Pochin — not here . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . a local manufacturer and a number of resident in my constituency have raise concern that product , such as cosmetic or first aid kit , sell on e - commerce site like Temu not only undercut local producer but may fail to meet high UK quality and safety standard . what be the Department do to ensure that product sell by online retailer continue to meet high - quality UK trading standard ? I thank my hon . friend for her question ; she be absolutely right to raise it . UK product safety law be clear : all product must be safe before they be place on the market . as she set out , good sell via online marketplace be become a significant problem . that be why we introduce the Product Regulation and Metrology Bill , which will allow the introduction of clear obligation for e - commerce business , in order to ensure consumer safety and a level playing field . we intend to consult on product safety requirement for online marketplace very shortly after Royal Assent . will the Secretary of State accept an invitation to engage with the First Minister , the Deputy First Minister and trade union on the Spirit negotiation , a joint venture to safeguard Northern Ireland job at Short Brothers , which will impact my constituent in Strangford ? I absolutely accept that invitation , and I can tell the hon . Gentleman that we be already extremely involved , as be the Minister for Industry . we welcome what have happen with Airbus , but we be focus a great deal on the remainco and the issue there . last year , the Secretary of State join I on a visit to our vibrant high street in Pangbourne . I recently meet the owner of one of those business , Nino ' s , a fantastic trattoria and deli . one issue that Nino raise with I be the regulatory burden on his business . how will the Government ' s small business strategy deal with that key challenge , and how will it support small business like Nino ' s , so that they can continue to thrive ? we have a wonderful visit about a year ago , and I hope the Pangbourne Cheese Shop be still go strong . yes , the regulatory burden on small business be a huge area of attention for this Department ; there be the business growth service , our action on late payment , and our incentivising of digitisation and e - invoicing . our farmer and grower can survive only if there be a function supply chain , but since the creation of the Groceries Code Adjudicator , they complain bitterly about continue poor practice and the risk of de - listing . do the Minister not agree that it be time to beef up this organisation , and to amalgamate it with the Agricultural Supply Chain Adjudicator ? we have a Westminster Hall debate last week in which a number of these issue be raise . the hon . Gentleman will know that we be undertake our fourth review of the GCA . I encourage he and other hon . member to contribute to it . we be consider the point make in that debate , and we will welcome any comment in the review . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I very much welcome yesterday ' s investment in UK energy abundance , but as our Committee point out on Friday , the success of the industrial strategy will depend on a plan to cut industrial energy cost now . when the industrial strategy be publish , will the Secretary of State reassure we that there will be a plan to ensure that UK energy price be internationally competitive ? I thank my right hon . friend and the Select Committee for all their work in this area . he know my view from the evidence that I have give . the significant increase in industrial energy price under the previous Government be a significant issue for our competitiveness — and yes , that be something that we seek to address . when it come to bus manufacturer Alexander Dennis and the job at risk there , there be not an elephant in the room — there be a chinese dragon . the company be in competition not with commercial organisation from China , but with entity of the chinese state . what representation will the Secretary of State make to the Prime Minister in an attempt to level a playing field that be currently about as flat as the Galloway hill ? I firmly agree with the hon . Gentleman that a level playing field be not just an economic necessity , but a matter of economic security and production in western economy like our own . of course , if a company have a specific case to make , it should make the representation to the Trade Remedies Authority directly — I have that power , but it would usually come from industry . if the company have a specific case to make , the hon . Gentleman should encourage it to make that representation . it be fantastic to hear the Government ' s commitment yesterday to make the UK a defence industrial superpower . at its peak , Stocksbridge Speciality Steels , in my constituency , produce 15 % of global defence and aerospace steel , which be essential to our national security . what work be the Secretary of State do to secure Stocksbridge Speciality Steels so that this valuable steel asset can be use to maintain our national security ? my hon . friend know that I believe the worker at that mill in her constituency be a national asset and that I want they to have a strong future as part of our overall steel strategy . we be closely monitor the specific situation there , which colleague will be aware of , and be determined to find the outcome that she and I would want to see . the Prime Minister routinely state his unwavering support for Ukraine , yet as a result of UK Government inaction , british business continue to bankroll Putin ' s brutal war on a colossal scale . since the beginning of Russia ' s full - scale invasion in 2022 , a whopping £ 205 billion of russian fossil fuel export have be ship by our own UK - base maritime company or by ship with our own UK - issue insurance . astonishingly , one company , Seapeak , have carry almost a quarter of Russia ' s liquefy natural gas export . can the Secretary of State give we an update on what the Government be do , and deal with this immediately ? I be concern by the figure the hon . Gentleman raise ; if he write to I , I will look into that immediately . we have take extensive action to sanction not just individual , but the shadow fleet , as it be describe , transport russian fossil fuel , and be willing to take any action necessary . yesterday , the Dad Shift campaign organise hundred of dad to come to Parliament to campaign for well paternity leave . do the Secretary of State agree that well paternity leave can give dad more security to spend more time with their baby , support the development of child and help gender balance in the workplace ? will he tell the House whether the issue will be cover in the upcoming parental leave review ? I be sorry that I be not able to meet the Dad Shift campaigner yesterday , although I have meet they previously . I can assure they and the House that the Government be commit to ensure that parent receive the good possible support to balance their work and home life , and we recognise that parental leave and pay entitlement play a key role in that . we know that the leave system need improve , which be why we be commit to conduct a review , which will look at paternity leave and pay and the length of leave available to father and partner . More detail on the review will be set out before the summer recess . the chief executive of ukhospitality estimate that there will be an extra £ 1 billion of cost on employer for new worker — 774 , 000 of they — come in to the national insurance contribution regime , on top of £ 2 . 4 billion in other cost . if , by the next Budget , it turn out that the previous Budget be crush the hospitality sector , will the Government consider tax relief in order to power our hospitality industry ? the hon . Gentleman know the Government , and the Treasury in particular , monitor the impact of all taxation . I have to be frank with colleague : I have no idea what the Conservatives be try to tell we today . they seem to want more spending and low taxis — it seem like Liz Truss be still hang around the party , to be honest . I have to ask member on the opposition Benches : what be your policy towards national insurance ? I welcome the UK - India trade deal , which be good for salmon and good for whisky . will the Secretary of State use his muscle to ensure that a chain of small distillery in my constituency and across Scotland can sell a wee dram to India , as well as the big brand ? Mr Speaker , I would like to draw the House ' s attention to report of a crash on take - off of a London - bind Air India flight from India today , and allow the Secretary of State to express our concern . it be very important , and I think the Leader of the House will make reference to it when we get to business question — if we get there . I be extremely grateful to my hon . friend for update the House on that matter . he will know that one of the brilliant thing about the UK - India deal be that it be not just for the high - value , iconic product we be all familiar with ; for bulk , there be no minimum price in the deal . the deal be incredibly strong for every bit of the whisky — and gin — industry in the United Kingdom . I be alert to the news my hon . friend have just share , and colleague will update the House . Greenergy , a company base in Immingham , have be force to shut down and review some of its operation in the UK . in part , that be due to an influx of heavily subsidise hydro - treat vegetable oil from the US . will the Secretary of State bear this in mind when he have trade negotiation with the US with a view to ease the situation ? I shall of course take that up with the hon . member . I have spend a fair bit of time in his constituency , as he know , on one matter or another . on fair trade and level playing field , colleague can direct their industry to the Trade Remedies Authority if they have specific concern , but , of course , we monitor those matter at a departmental level as well . since the global financial crisis , list on the London Stock Exchange have fall by 40 % , pose a significant barrier to growth , as liquidity and investor activity decline . what step be my right hon . friend take to ensure that more british business be list on the London Stock Exchange and that the UK remain a lead global financial sector ? that be an area of concern to we all . we support and continue to implement some of the listing rule and prospective change of the previous Government , but the big change from this Government be to liquidity , particularly around pension reform . none the less , this remain an issue of key competitiveness for the United Kingdom . I call Josh Babarinde for the final question . eastbourne business Qualisea , Gianni ' s and Gr / eat be up in arm , as I be , that East Sussex county council ' s shambolic management of the Victoria Place pedestrianisation mean that work will now fall in the summer , their busy trading period . what provision will minister make to ensure that business hit by such disruption can be properly compensate ? the hon . Gentleman will understand that I do not have the detail of that specific case , but if he want to write to I I will happily look into it . that complete question . we will now let the Front Benchers change over . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we the forthcoming business ? the business for next week be as follow : Monday 16 June — motion relate to the House of Commons independent complaint and grievance scheme , follow by a general debate on Windrush Day 2025 . the subject for this debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Tuesday 17 June — remain stage of the Crime and Policing Bill ( day one ) . Wednesday 18 June — remain stage of the Crime and Policing Bill ( day two ) . Thursday 19 June — Motion to approve the draft Licensing Act 2003 ( UEFA Women ' s European Football Championship Licensing Hours ) Order 2025 , follow by general debate on incontinence , follow by general debate on water safety education . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 20 June — private Member ' s Bills . the provisional business for the week commence 23 June will include : Monday 23 June — General debate on Pride Month . Tuesday 24 June — estimate day ( 2nd allotted day ) . Wednesday 25 June — estimate day ( 3rd allotted day ) . at 7 pm the House will be ask to agree all outstanding estimate . Thursday 26 June — proceeding on the Supply and Appropriation ( Main Estimates ) ( no . 2 ) Bill , follow by general debate on Armed Forces Day . Friday 27 June — the House will not be sit . as the House will know , we have incoming news of a terrible disaster involve a flight out of Ahmedabad in India . I know that the Leader of the House will want to say a few word , but , from the conservative Benches — I be sure that I speak for the whole House — let I wish everyone involve and their family the very good . it would be a bad day this week if I do not mention the fantastic news of the knighthood of Sir Billy Boston — it be nice to be able to do that . I hope you will admire my restraint , Mr Speaker , in not mention your birthday and therefore not give any incentive to any other Member of the House to mention it in their remark either . I have the dubious pleasure , as you do , Mr Speaker , of listen to yesterday ' s spend review in this Chamber . it bring to mind President Abraham Lincoln ' s immortal line about manage to compress the great number of word into the small amount of content . I be afraid that the statement be somewhat bad than that . it be , in both its design and delivery , an exercise in distraction and sleight of hand — a document not of economic strategy but of political evasion . we should be clear from the outset that this be a spending review , not a Budget . unlike a Budget , it be not subject to scrutiny by the Office for Budget Responsibility . the Chancellor ' s figure have , therefore , not be externally verify . her assumption have not be stress - test , and her projection have not be independently review . she be not require to publish the full fiscal implication or to give the embarrassing number in her own remark — and , of course , she do not . even within the confine of departmental budget , the presentation be , I be afraid , somewhat disingenuous . a final year outside the actual spending review period be include , fill with speculative figure design to suggest rigour and restraint in budgetary control . this be the illusion of discipline without the reality of delivery . in case any Member be interested , this be on page 13 of the document . elsewhere , baseline figure be conveniently shift ; most comparison begin from the year 2023 - 24 , not the current year , which have the effect of inflate the apparent scale of any increase . Sizewell C be a classic example . the document trumpet a near 16 % increase in investment . in truth , spend over the period be fall by 3 . 7 % . that be on page 44 . similarly , on police funding , the Chancellor be very careful in her language to say that there would be an increase in " police spending power " , but what she mean be that there would be an increase in the local authority precept : in plain English , a tax rise . the same obfuscation be at work with overseas development aid . the Chancellor have always say that ODA cut be need to fund defence , but the reality be that defence increase be almost entirely in capital spending , while ODA be a cash line . far from fund our national defence , what have actually happen be that overseas development aid have be cut to prop up other Departments ' day - to - day budget . the most obvious case be defence spending : we be tell in grand rhetoric that it would rise to 2 . 5 % , and later 3 % , of gdp at some undefined moment when fiscal circumstance allow . in fact , it be unlikely that even 2 . 5 % will be reach this Parliament . the 2 . 6 % quote include the single intelligence account , which suggest that the number be below 2 . 5 % . the defence investment plan — the plan that will release the money — be unlikely to appear until the end of the year . that be nearly 18 month after the 2024 general election — this at a time of war in Ukraine , and with China potentially position itself for conflict over Taiwan by 2027 . on Monday NATO Secretary - General Mark Rutte , echo yesterday by no less than Lord Robertson , say that unless NATO member raise defence spending to 3 . 5 % , with an additional 1 . 5 % in wide support , we may as well " start learn Russian " . that be the strategic context . the Government ' s response have be to dither and delay . the Chancellor ' s u - turn over the winter fuel payment badly damage whatever credibility she ever have . yesterday ' s statement have compound the problem for she and the Government . no mention be make of the estimate 5 % annual council tax increase now expect , as flag by Paul Johnson of the Institute for Fiscal Studies . no admission be make that the review will add £ 140 billion in new borrowing . that be an extra £ 10 billion a year in interest payment , at current rate , by the end of the period . meanwhile , the suppose efficiency saving of nearly £ 14 billion be widely regard as illusory . as the Chancellor herself say about the spending review , these be her choice . but the truth be plain : there will be a tax cut for the people of Mauritius . for the rest of we , the spending review be a gigantic speculative splurge of spending , present via smoke and mirror , which will end up , as it always do with Labour , with high taxis , and british taxpayer will have to bear the impact . I start by say that the thought of the whole House and the Government will be with the family of those travel on flight ai171 from Ahmedabad in India to London Gatwick , which have reportedly crash . this be an unfold story , and it will undoubtedly be cause a huge amount of worry and concern to the many family and community here and those wait for the arrival of their love one . we send our deep sympathy and thought to all those family , and the Government will provide all the support that they can to those affect in India and in this country . I congratulate Billy Boston on receive a knighthood for his service to rugby league — during your birthday week , Mr Speaker . I know that as a former patron of rugby league , you feel very strongly indeed that it be about time rugby league be recognise in this way , and you might want to mention that later . give that I know it be of great interest to the House , I be pleased to update colleague on the ratification of the BBNJ — biodiversity beyond national jurisdiction — oceans treaty . our ocean be die , and without urgent action they will be irreversibly destroy . I be proud to confirm to the House today that this Labour Government will introduce legislation before the end of the year to ratify the high seas treaty and protect marine life around the world . we be all shock by Sir David Attenborough ' s film about the destruction cause by bottom trawling , which this Government will ban in protect british water . I be really happy , as ever , to debate the right hon . member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) on the economy . he use to be a Treasury Minister and he be well read . he know , I be sure , what every economist in this country know , which be that for many , many year , the UK economy have be define by low growth and stagnant living standard , because of our comparatively low productivity . that be because we have have year and year of under - investment in our infrastructure , in our service , in our region and in our people . this Labour Government be finally put that right with a 10 - year renewal plan to rebuild Britain and address the productivity gap . I be not sure whether the Conservatives really understand basic economic , because they be show no sign of it . in my part of the world and yours , Mr Speaker , that have be particularly true . town and city across the north and the midland have be hold back by woeful transport infrastructure that would be unacceptable to people in the south ; hold back by the lack of job opportunity near where they live ; hold back by poor , insecure and costly housing ; hold back because they be not get the training and skill they need ; and hold back because their life chance be low as a result of deep - seat inequality . that can not be address overnight , and we be not pretend that it will be , but we have a long - term plan for renewal . that include the big investment in affordable and social housing in 50 year ; nuclear and renewable infrastructure transform community around the country ; the north finally get the rail connectivity it deserve ; and every community get well bus . school and hospital be be rebuild for the 21st century , base not on fictional budget and economic but on actual plan to deliver they . we be address today ' s cost of living crisis , too , with our warm home plan to bring down bill , by extend free school meal and free breakfast club , with more free childcare , with a cap on bus fare and by increase the wage of the low pay — with wage go up more in the first 10 month of this Labour Government than they do in 10 year of the Conservative Government . finally , we continue to boost the NHS , which have already result in waiting list come down month after month . the right hon . Gentleman want to talk about choice , so let we talk about those choice . we would not have be able to set those thing out if we have not make the difficult change to taxis that we make in the Budget last year . he seem to want more spending for the police and defence — I think that be what he be say — but he do not want to make the hard decision about where the money will come from . he mention yet again the 2 . 5 % of spending on defence , which this Government be deliver , but he might want to remind himself of when defence spending reach 2 . 5 % in the last 20 year . be it in any of the 14 year for which his government be in office ? no , it be not . it be only when Labour be last in government that we reach the height of 2 . 5 % . in contrast to the Conservatives ' fantasy economic , yesterday ' s spend allocation be all within the envelope that we set out in the Budget last year , so we be really clear where the money be come from . as ever , their economic argument be utterly incoherent . on the one hand , they say that we be spend too much , and on the other that we be not spend even more on police and defence . they criticise we on growth , yet they do not want the investment to turbocharge our productivity and , therefore , our growth . we be the party with a plan — a plan to renew Britain , a plan to raise living standard in every part of the country , a plan to get our public service back on their foot and a plan to give people the security they need in their home . to follow on from what the Leader of the House and the shadow Leader of the House have say , all our prayer and thought go to the family of the London - bind aircraft that have crash . let we hope there be well news to come on that . I be tempt by the Leader of the House when she talk about the knighthood for Sir Billy Boston . I just hope that it will be like London bus and we will see further knighthood for rugby league — I look forward to none more so than the news of Sir Kevin Sinfield . let we try somebody from Yorkshire ; I call Jon Trickett . I very much associate myself with your comment about Kevin Sinfield , Mr Speaker , who be a hero for the whole nation and a great role model . on the question of the north , the Leader of the House be right . in the great northern town of Featherstone , there be increase irritation about the way in which the absentee and irresponsible owner of the former Junction pub be allow it to deteriorate . it be now in a dangerous condition and I fear that somebody will be badly hurt . the process of deal with dangerous structure be too long , too bureaucratic and too cumbersome . please may we have a debate in Government time — I think lot of Members will have the same experience — so we can share our experience and see whether the Government can push thing forward ? my hon . friend be right to raise the difficult issue of the junction pub in his constituency . we all hear those story time and again . we want to give local community more power to have the right to acquire such facility , and for those power to be exercise more quickly than they currently be . we be bring forward legislation in that regard , but he might want to club together with other to get a debate on the issue . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . may I echo the thought and sympathy that have be send to all those involve in the Air India crash that be be report ? I know that many british citizen will be affect , and our thought be with they . I recently join Essex police on a ride - along in my Chelmsford constituency to witness at first hand its vital work in our local community to keep we all safe . worryingly , Essex police have regularly raise with I that the national funding formula , know as the police allocation formula , be outdated and unfair . the funding that Essex police receive fall far short of the proportion of policing carry out by the force in a national context . yesterday ' s spending review do nothing to change that or to remove concern about police funding overall . indeed , the chairman of the National Police Chiefs ' Council say that in real term , the increase in funding " will cover little more than annual inflationary pay increase for officer and staff . " he add that " the amount fall far short of what be require to … maintain our exist workforce . " if we want to keep crime off our street and retain the experienced officer who do such vital work to keep we safe , surely we must give they the funding to match . yesterday ' s spending review do not do that . will the Leader of the House therefore raise those issue with both the Treasury and the Home Office ? I thank the hon . Lady for express her thought on the India crash as well . she raise an important issue about adequate police funding . all our constituent want to see more police on the street and crime in their community come down . this Government be commit to more visible police on the street and to increase neighbourhood police number by 13 , 000 . yesterday ' s spending review announce an above - inflation increase in police funding of 2 . 3 % , which we believe be an adequate settlement for the police . the hon . Lady be right , however , that we need to bring forward reform to make sure that we have well distribution of funding and that we can have efficiency saving on police procurement and other issue . we will , as be our commitment , bring forward legislation in that regard in due course . I welcome the new banking hub in Penistone , which I visit this week . however , other part of my constituency remain a banking desert . the Stocksbridge and Deepcar Townswomen ' s Guild raise the urgent need for a hub in Stocksbridge and we desperately need one in Chapeltown too . otherwise , my constituent have to trek all the way to the centre of Sheffield to have cash access and to receive in - person advice from their bank . will the Leader of the House advise I on how I can secure those essential grassroot financial service for those area in my constituency ? access to banking and financial service remain a huge issue for many mp across the House . I be pleased to hear that my hon . friend have a new banking hub in Penistone , but I recognise that Chapeltown need that service too . we be roll out 350 banking hub . over 100 of those be already open . there be a well - subscribe debate on this issue in the House last week , but I will ensure that the relevant Minister give she an update on the banking hub in her constituency . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . a third of my constituent emanate from Gujarat , so my thought and prayer be with the family and relative who be obviously concerned about the plight of the 242 passenger on that flight . I understand that the plane come down in a residential area , so the people who live there will also be affect . I thank the Leader of the House for announce the business for next week and for announce the estimate day . estimate day application can be obtain from the Table Office or the Committee ' s website . we welcome application . they will close tomorrow at the rise of the House , and we will be consider application for debate at our meeting on Tuesday at 4 . 15 pm . anyone apply should expect to turn up and present their case . we intend to allocate three debate each day , with a preference give to those who be unsuccessful in the supplementary estimate day . in addition to the business announce by the Leader of the House , in Westminster Hall next week , on Tuesday there will be a debate on hydrogen - power aviation , and on Thursday there will be a Select Committee statement from the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee , follow by debate on the role of career education in improve social mobility and on Down ' s syndrome regression disorder . on Tuesday 24 June , there will be a debate on the right to maintain contact in care setting . on Thursday 26 June , there will be a Select Committee statement from the Joint Committee on Human Rights , follow by debate on the role of the RAF photographic reconnaissance unit during the second world war and on the funding of the BBC World Service . in recent week , I have raise the plight of Hindus in Bangladesh . I have also raise the atrocity in Pahalgam , but now thing have come home to this country . early this week , three young indian boy be play cricket in Headstone park . they be approach by three slightly old man . an altercation take place , and the three young boy be hospitalise , one with a fractured eye socket . we understand that the police be deal with this as an aggravate racial assault . it take place between young Hindu boy and old muslim man . the police be appeal for witness to come forward to see who the perpetrator be , and community leader be try to take down the temperature so that there be no escalation . but if this type of religious hatred be go to come to this country , we desperately need the Home Secretary to make a clear statement about what the Government will do to prevent it from happen . I ask the Leader of the House to facilitate that next week . may I first send my thought to the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent ? when I first hear of the crash , I think of he , know the demographic of his constituency . if any of his constituent need help and support , the Foreign Office , the authority and the Government here stand ready to support they . I thank he for announce future Back - Bench business , particularly the estimate day , which be important debate in the calendar year . I be sorry to hear about the attack on three young boy innocently play cricket in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency . he raise these issue time and again in the House . I be sure the whole House will join I in send the clear and strong message that we absolutely stand against any kind of sectarian religious hate or violence like that and that we will take whatever step necessary to eradicate it . we have two day of debate on the Crime and Policing Bill next week . there be further measure in that Bill in relation to attack on place of worship and on memorial , which would include religious memorial . I recognise that the hon . Gentleman want further action on these issue , so if he do not get a chance to raise they with the Home Secretary next week , I will raise they for he . Glasgow City football club in my constituency recently win 2 - 0 against Hearts , secure the team a place in the UEFA woman ' s champion league . I be delighted to be at that game cheer the team on . it be a fantastic achievement and a testament to the hard work of the team on and off the pitch , spearhead by club co - founder and chief executive Laura Montgomery . will the Leader of the House join I in wish Glasgow City the good of luck for their european campaign , and will she consider a debate in Government time on the importance of support grassroots woman ' s football ? I be absolutely delighted to join my hon . friend in congratulate Glasgow City football club on its achievement and I wish the team all the very good in their european campaign . woman ' s football and grassroot woman ' s sport be discuss regularly in this House , and I be sure that she will continue to raise those matter . rise — order . my intention be for business question to run until around 11 . 45 , so if we can help each other by speed through , that would be really good . I call Sir Roger Gale to set a good example . the Government have pledge to enhance the record of the previous Conservative Government and uphold animal welfare . retained european regulation currently prohibit the handling of chicken by their leg , but in their first act of animal welfare , the Government be propose to pass regulation to permit that harmful practice . will the Leader of the House ask the agriculture Minister to write to I — and place a copy of the letter in the Library — to explain why the Government be choose to lower the legal standard rather than to uphold the law and protect animal welfare ? that be a bad example . the Government be commit to introduce the most ambitious programme of animal welfare in a generation . I be not aware of the particular regulation that the right hon . gentleman mention , but I will ensure that he get a full response from the Minister and that it be make available for everybody else . government datum release last year show that homeschooling figure have double since 2019 . although I wholeheartedly welcome the measure in the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill to ensure that all child be safe , many parent in my constituency actively and positively choose to home - educate their child , and it be safe and reasonable for they to do so . on behalf of her Cabinet colleague , will the Leader of the House reassure home - educate parent in my constituency and across the UK , who be do a fantastic job of educate their child , that the Bill will safeguard educational freedom and honour the incredibly positive impact that parent can have on their child ' s development ? will she consider a debate on the merit of alternative form of education ? I thank my hon . friend for raise the issue of homeschooling . she be right to say that many family provide high - quality and important education for their child where it be not available to they in the mainstream . I be sure that she will agree that we must tackle absenteeism in school , which be particularly rife since covid , and that we need to get more child back into mainstream education . although child be home - school for good reason , some be not safe at home , and we must take step to deal with that . this weekend , with the team from my parliamentary office , I will be take part in the Knaresborough bed race , a fantastic local community event , to raise money for Knaresborough Town AFC . will the Leader of the House congratulate in advance all those who take part and hopefully finish , as well as the organiser of the event , and will she consider a debate in Government time on unique and culturally important sporting event ? I be not quite sure that I understand what that race be , but it sound very unique to Knaresborough , and I will take an interest now that the hon . Gentleman have raise it with I . that would make a good topic for a debate . yesterday ' s spending review see this Government invest in national renewal . to truly deliver on that , it be vital that small town such as those in my constituency fully feel the benefit . we need local investment strategy to address the thing that hold our area back , such as a lack of a commuter rail link in Rossendale or overreliance on a single road in Darwen . these solution be inevitably unique to an area , require investment plan that be locally lead but nationally back . small town like mine need to be at the heart of our national renewal , so will the Leader of the House agree to a debate in Government time on that vital subject ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . as I say early , the lack of investment in many of our northern town and city have really hold those community back . I be well aware of the challenge in Rossendale and Darwen and how much his constituency could flourish if it have well rail and road connectivity , and I look forward to work with he on that . may I remind the Leader of the House that when I refer to the prayer table by my right hon . friend the Leader of the Opposition against the Mauritius treaty , in early - day motion 1398 , she be unable to give an undertaking that this will be debate within the 21 - day period lay down by the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010 ? [ that the Agreement , do at London and Port Louis on 22 May 2025 , between the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of the Republic of Mauritius concern the Chagos Archipelago include Diego Garcia , should not be ratify . ] however , in a subsequent answer to the hon . member for Brent West ( Barry Gardiner ) , she make it clear that the global ocean treaty would not be ratify until the necessary legislation have be pass . can we take it that the Mauritius treaty will not be ratify until the House have approve the legislation provide for the very substantial expenditure that it involve ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that with I again . I have look at these issue closely since he and other raise they with I last week . as he will be aware , with the Diego Garcia agreement and the global ocean treaty , ratification depend on this government implement many of the commitment that be make in that treaty . that be why the CRAG process , as well as legislation , be require in both case . there will be a Bill bring forward on the Diego Garcia agreement , and therefore this House will have ample opportunity to debate its merit and vote on it . before ratification ? yes . in 1993 , my constituent Liz and Steve Fitzgerald tragically lose their daughter Claire and 11 other pupil in a school minibus accident . together , we have be campaign to make school minibus travel safe . the NASUWT union find that many teacher be still be pressure to drive school minibus without the appropriate training , because of a licence exemption for school . that exemption do not exist for private school . will the Leader of the House find time for the House to discuss the issue of school minibus safety ? I be really sorry to hear of the case in my hon . friend ' s constituency . she be absolutely right to raise that here and with other . it sound like a good topic for a debate , because I be sure we would all want to know that our child be safe on school transport . when the Bank of Scotland branch close later this year in Pitlochry , the town will desperately need a banking hub . that be why I be disappoint that the independent assessor and Link assess only access to cash , not access to banking . I challenge Link on that , and it say that that be because of the mandate set for it by the Financial Conduct Authority ; so I challenge the FCA on that , and it say that that be because of the regulatory framework in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 ; so I challenge the Treasury on that and ask it to change its regulatory framework and imposition on the FCA . the Treasury say it will not do that . in opposition , Labour table an amendment to the Financial Services and Markets Bill that would have mandate a survey of access to banking service , not just access to cash . can we have a debate in Government time about how we fix this utter guddle ? we have just have the debate ! yes , we have just have a good debate on it ! this issue come up often — it have already come up today . we have banking hub desert in Scotland and the rest of the UK . we be committed to address that with the opening of banking hub . we will , I be sure , have ample opportunity as various piece of legislation pass through the House to discuss any change to regulation , but I will ensure the hon . Gentleman get a proper response about those regulation . first , as co - chair of the India all - party parliamentary group , may I express my condolence to the family affect both in this country and in India ? I can not imagine what they be go through , and I thank the Leader of the House for offer her support and the support of this Government . every single year , the horse fair come to Mountsorrel and my constituency . I have no doubt that the vast majority come to enjoy it , but there be always report of antisocial behaviour , harassment and business and home be damage . it be unacceptable , and that antisocial behaviour be incredibly damaging . I call on everyone who come this year to do so in a way that be enjoyable but peaceful . will the Leader of the House set out what this government be do to address crime and antisocial behaviour in my community ? I join my hon . friend in hope that everybody who go to the horse fair in his constituency do so for the right reason and because they want to celebrate that event , rather than to cause criminality or antisocial behaviour — I be sure we all recognise that . we want to take step to clamp down on antisocial behaviour and give the police more power to do that , and that be what our Crime and Policing Bill will do . I hope that everything pass off well for his constituent . the Leader of the House will be aware that Queen ' s hospital in Romford , which serve the borough of Havering , Barking and Dagenham and of Redbridge , be in urgent need of an A & E upgrade . indeed , I meet the Minister for Secondary Care only this week to discuss it . may we have an urgent statement from the Government on this issue ? the situation have lead to many patient be leave on trolley for more than 24 hour . the hospital serve 800 , 000 people in that radius , and that be simply not acceptable . please can some of the money from the statement yesterday be spend in Romford on a hospital that serve local people ? it be good to hear the hon . Gentleman support our spending review measure yesterday and the increase funding that we be provide to the NHS in both capital and revenue . that be to tackle the issue that he describe : the chronic underfunding of our a & E over many year , and the unacceptable delay that many people face in accident and emergency department around the country — my husband work in one , so I be well aware of the issue . I look forward to the hon . Gentleman vote with we when we implement the spending review . there will be a statement shortly on how that money be be allocate . will my right hon . Friend tell the House when we be likely to see the public authority accountability Bill , which will introduce the Hillsborough law on duty of candour ? be we likely to see it before the summer recess , and can we have an assurance that it be not be water down at the request of mandarin in the Cabinet Office ? as I have say , the Government remain very much focused on fulfil our commitment to the Hillsborough family — and indeed to many other family affect by injustice and scandal — and to bring forward and enact a Hillsborough law , which of course include a duty of candour . most importantly , we need to ensure that we get the legislation right , and that it reflect the full range of concern and experience and meet the expectation of the family . we be work on the Bill at pace , but we will take whatever time be necessary to work collaboratively and get the legislation right . transfer from legacy benefit to universal credit seem to be overly complicated , and make it difficult for my constituent not to find themselves in debt . as an MP , I feel that my hand be tie . we be see constituent come forward with rent arrear and in very difficult situation . may we have a statement from the Department for Work and Pensions on what be be do to make the transfer easy ? I be concerned that people be fall into deep poverty and face civil action in the absence of well Government support . I be sorry to hear that some of the hon . Lady ' s constituent be face challenge move from legacy benefit to universal credit . she will be aware that the Government make change to the debt aspect of universal credit , which put money in the pocket of many people in that situation , but I will ensure that she get a full update on where we be up to . will the Leader of the House join I in praise the Ukrainian St Mary ' s trust , which in recent year dramatically scale up its community school to serve more than 2 , 500 displace child , and pioneer new trauma - sensitive method of education ? will she consider make time to debate its proposal to set up the country ' s first bilingual ukrainian secondary school in Kensington and bayswater , deliver on the education section of our historic 100 - year partnership with Ukraine ? that sound like a really interesting proposal , which my hon . friend be right to raise . this country have now give sanctuary to more than 300 , 000 Ukrainians since the war break out , of which I be sure we be all incredibly proud . we all recognise the contribution that they be make to our country . I will ensure that a Minister from the Department for Education give he a reply about the new school . across Keighley and Ilkley , there be many fantastic independent business that rely on footfall for customer to come through their door . however , after hike parking charge in Ilkley early this year , labour - run Bradford council have now decide to strip away our free one hour on - street parking from the town centre and , quite rightly , local business and resident be up in arm . on top of the whopping 10 % increase in council tax and increase in business rate , Bradford council be now scrap free car parking , so do the Leader of the House feel that will be to the detriment of our many business and resident across the constituency ? as a constituency MP — I represent Manchester Central — I be well aware that parking charge in local community cause a great deal of contention among our constituent . I be not sure about the reason behind that decision in Ilkley , but local authority be balance the need of a range of different resident on these matter . it would make a popular topic for a well - subscribe debate . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the Woodlands Quaker care home , in my constituency of Wolverhampton West , on its work ? it be an excellent non - profit residential care home , provide accommodation for old people so that they can live as well as possible . as a charity , it pride itself on have a high staff ratio , with 70 member of staff , many of whom work part time , for 36 resident . however , even with the increase employment allowance , it now face a significantly high employer national insurance liability , adversely affect its operating cost . will the Leader of the House agree to a debate in Government time on how we can support adult social care provider , which in turn will ease pressure on the NHS ? I thank my hon . friend for raise the issue . he be aware that we take the difficult decision to raise employer ' national insurance contribution so that we could get our NHS back on its foot , and that be what we have be do since the Budget . we be provide the support need against any knock - on effect to social care provider and key charity , particularly through the additional boost that we have give to local authority in their funding . he may want to raise this issue with the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , who will be in the Chamber shortly . my constituent Mr Wayne Arnold have compile a dossier of fault follow an ECO4 upgrade at his home last year . I have the lever arch file here — it be two inch thick and well worth look at . it have take 62 week for the work to be complete . another constituent , Judie Haines , can not find local engineer to service the ECO4 system that have be put into her home . the company have become insolvent , mean that my constituent can not get remedial work complete . will the Leader of the House allow a debate in Government time on the poor work that have be carry out under ECO4 , the effect that that have have on vulnerable household and the lesson learn as we move on towards ECO5 ? I be sorry to hear about the experience that the hon . Lady ' s constituent have have under ECO4 . the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for Peckham ( Miatta Fahnbulleh ) , make a statement to the House a few week ago , when this Government uncover the real challenge of the previous scheme , which have be introduce under the previous Government , and the poor level of some work that have be carry out . we be take step to put that right and ensure that we learn all the lesson from that for the next phase , and I know that the Minister will be keen to keep the House constantly update on that . the Government recently announce £ 7 . 5 million of funding for the British Sugar factory in my constituency , support that unlock a furth £ 43 million of investment . in Liz Truss ' s former constituency , this Government be invest to secure growth . the Wissington factory be Europe ' s large sugar beet factory and be celebrate its 100th birthday this year . will the Leader of the House join I in welcome that investment and wish the Wissington factory a very happy birthday ? absolutely . I join my hon . friend in wish the factory a happy birthday and I be delighted to hear about the extra investment in British Sugar in his constituency . it highlight how important it be to get such investment and new job into community such as his , so that his resident can access the good job of the future . I be sure it will give we all a very sweet aftertaste . it be common riding and festival season in the Scottish Borders , a spectacular and ancient tradition date back to the battle of Flodden in 1513 , bring together each of the Borders community to celebrate , so may we have a debate on the importance of the Scottish Borders common riding and festival ? will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Selkirk ' s Royal Burgh standard bearer , Darren Knox , and to wish he very well for this week ' s selkirk common riding ? I absolutely join the hon . gentleman in congratulate Darren Knox and wish he the very good as he participate in the common riding . I do not know of that great tradition in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency until he mention it to I , and it sound like a fantastic thing to celebrate . I stand on a promise to stop sewage pollute our waterway in Bolton , and under this Labour Government I be delighted that we be turn that pledge into action . last year alone , 295 day - worth of sewage be dump into Bolton ' s waterway . that be nothing short of a disgrace . I welcome the decision to block bonus for United Utilities boss , whose shameful record have go unchecked for far too long . when ask to fix the problem , they plead poverty while pocket massive bonus . as a fellow north - west MP , do my right hon . friend agree that it be high time United Utilities be hold to account and stop profit from environmental destruction ? my hon . friend be right to raise this issue . what have happen in our waterway in recent year — the pollution and the discharge — be absolutely shocking . I be so proud that one of the first act of this Labour Government be to introduce the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill , which be now an Act . that have give we the power to tackle the erroneous and unwarranted bonus of water company such as United Utilities , and I be really glad to see the Act in action . voice be a domestic abuse charity in Bath that support victim to recover from the long - term trauma and stress of domestic abuse . it be in a new funding crisis , because mandatory funding go into crisis and immediate risk - management service , not long - term recovery . may we have a debate in Government time on the vital importance of long - term recovery from domestic abuse and the financial support need to keep charity such as Voices go ? I be sorry to hear of the struggle that Voices in the hon . Lady ' s constituency be experience . she will know that this Government be absolutely committed to halve violence against woman and girl over the next 10 year . that be an incredibly ambitious agenda , and of course it include work with the voluntary and charitable sector . I will ensure that the Minister for Safeguarding give the hon . Lady a full reply about that charity . in Burslem , a memorial to our Royal Doulton fall be very sadly lose . I be proud to have join a campaign lead so brilliantly by Mike Lightfoot , ably support by the former MP Joan Walley , St Modwen Homes and other , to reinstate the memorial , which will be unveil on VJ Day this August . with Armed Forces Day approach , will the Leader of the House join I in thank Mike and the team for their commitment to ensure that those who make the ultimate sacrifice will never be forget ? I absolutely join my hon . friend in thank and congratulate all those who work to reinstate that important memorial , and commemorate all those who give their life and sacrifice so much to keep this country safe in many way . we have a general debate on Armed Forces Day on 26 June , and I be look at request that I have have from other member about a particular debate for VJ Day before we break up for the summer recess . many of my constituent and million across the country suffer from arthritis in its various form . early this week I meet Arthritis Champions who be seek a government strategy to tackle this issue . will the Leader of the House arrange for a statement from a Health Minister on how the Government will take that forward ? I know from dear family member of the plight of those who suffer from arthritis and the huge impact it can have on their life and their ability to work and live a happy and long life . we can do a huge range of thing for arthritis , such as new treatment , prevention and early diagnosis , and I be sure that a Minister will want to come forward to this House with a whole strategy . at the height of the pandemic , Mr Speaker , you may recall the establishment of the Rosalind Franklin laboratory and national testing facility , which we be promise would be retain after the pandemic for more general testing . sadly , it be unceremoniously put up for sale on rightmove a couple of year ago . may we have a debate on , or a review into , the provision of diagnostic testing more generally in this country ? I be sorry to hear that the testing facility in my hon . friend ' s constituency close under the last government , despite their previous commitment to it . he will be aware that we will soon set out the 10 - year nhs strategy , and as part of that I be sure that my hon . friend will want to put those kind of question to the Secretary of State . authoritarian regime be increase their attempt to silence those who stand up against they , wherever they be in the world . that include the Hong Kong Government , who have issue arrest warrant and million - dollar bounty for 19 activist in exile , include 10 who be resident here in the UK . tomorrow , the father of one of those activist , Anna Kwok , will attend a hearing in Hong Kong , charge with help with her finance use fund from a life insurance policy . it be the first time that an activist ' s family have be arrest and charge , so may we have a statement from the Government on how they will legislate to specifically recognise and criminalise act of transnational repression ? the hon . Gentleman will know that the Foreign Secretary , the Prime Minister and many other raise human right issue with the chinese authority on many occasion , and that we have give people from Hong Kong safe sanctuary in this country , which be something I be very proud of . the contribution to our country of those from Hong Kong be something we should all celebrate , but I will ensure that the hon . Gentleman get a full response on the case he describe . last September , in Liverpool , the Prime Minister promise my city and all those affect by state cover - up that a Hillsborough law would be introduce before 15 April this year , the 36th anniversary of the Hillsborough disaster . almost two month have pass since the Prime Minister miss that deadline . this be particularly disappointing , since a draft Hillsborough law write by legal expert and endorse by survivor , family and campaigner be ready to go — it be propose in Parliament by Andy Burnham . will the Leader of the House allow time to discuss this matter , so that the Government can hear loud and clear the message from this place that a failure to introduce a Hillsborough law worthy of the name will be see as a continuation of the betrayal of family and survivor of Hillsborough , and of all those affect by state cover - up ? I very strongly hear what my hon . friend be say . at these time , we always remember those affect by the Hillsborough disaster , particularly their plight ever since in fight for justice and accountability . that be why this Government be commit to introduce a Hillsborough law , which will include a duty of candour . as I say in answer to a previous question , it be vital that we get that legislation right — that it be workable and watertight in legal term , but also meet the expectation and need of the family and all those affect . that be why we be work at pace and work closely with the family and their representative , and we will bring forward that legislation at a time when we get it right . the Government ' s decision to cut personal independence payment by change the eligibility criterion be a double whammy for carer , who risk lose their carer ' s allowance if the person they care for no long qualifie for PIP . give that it be Carers Week , will the Leader of the House raise this issue with the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions and make time for a debate so that we can discuss the far - reach impact of these change ? this Government be absolutely committed to support carer , and we have already take step to do so . we recognise how worrying it be for people when we be discuss change to PIP and what those would mean for passporte benefit such as carer ' s allowance . as the Green Paper set out , we will be consider all of these issue in the round , include how we can support carer as part of this package . Chopwell be a small village in my constituency , but this weekend it will see hundred gather from around the world as it host cycle ' s pump track world championship UK qualifi on Sunday — the only track of the competition in the UK . it be a fantastic opportunity to showcase our vibrant community and brilliant local facility on the world stage . may we have a debate in Government time on the importance of local community play their part in deliver worldwide event ? if my hon . friend will forgive I , I will never tyre of hear about the great event in member ’ constituency , and this sound like a wheely good one . [ interruption . ] no ? okay , we will do well next time . I thank she for raise that event . the Government ' s own projection show that their vindictive education tax would drive 3 , 000 child out of private education . the late datum show that the exodus be already 11 , 000 , with projection say it will get bad . may we have a debate in Government time to find out why the Government ' s projection be so horrendously out , and the cost to the state sector of now have to educate those child ? as the hon . Gentleman know , the number he describe be within the normal fluctuation of these thing . I be not clear whether this conservative party support get more teacher into our state school . as a result of the change we have make to vat on private school , we have get over 2 , 000 more teacher in our school this year , with more to come . it be vital to get more teacher into state school , which educate 94 % of young people in this country . it will not have escape the attention of member of this House that Britain be in the grip of a viral addiction that have collapse website , strip shop shelf bare and have the staff of Castle Chocolates in my Carlisle constituency work round the clock to feed it . I be of course speak about Dubai chocolate . will the Leader of the House not just join I in thank the staff of Castle Chocolates , who be literally work round the clock , but give we time for a debate on the entrepreneurship of our small business and the contribution they make to our city ? I join my hon . friend in celebrate Dubai chocolate , and I congratulate Castle Chocolates in her constituency on meet that demand . it show the opportunity that social medium bring to small business in part of our constituency ; we should always remember that when we discuss issue around social medium . I will join she in have a few Dubai chocolate later . as a person of Gujarati heritage and an MP who represent a large number of Gujarati constituent , I , too , would like to express my shock , horror and sympathy over the devastating news come out of India . like the rest of the House , I pray and hope beyond hope for some good news . recently , I have speak to many nursery in my constituency who have serve close - knit , hard - work community for generation , include Shanklin day nursery , Nursery Rhymes and Saffron pre - school . they all tell I that they be struggle and one be to close imminently , due to a combination of rent increase from the council , increase in employer ' s national insurance , the low rate provide by the Government for free childcare place and their no long be able to charge for additional service . will the Leader of the House kindly commit to schedule a debate on how we can improve funding for our vital nursery ? I join the hon . gentleman in send all my thought and wish to his constituent who may be worry and affect by the news come out of India regard the inbound flight to Gatwick . it be truly devastating . this Government be commit to more childcare place and more free childcare . that be what we be roll out . we have more money go into school - base nursery , too , so that family can access that provision . I hear what he be say this morning ; the issue would probably make a good topic for debate . may I start by associate myself with the sympathy give over the news come from India this morning , which will be cause great anxiety to many of my constituent ? the Ascension Eagles cheerleading team of Silvertown have just return triumphant from an important event in Florida . as a sport fan , Mr Speaker , you will know that almost 100 , 000 people take part in cheerleading now . it have recently be recognise by Sport England , but it often go unrecognised by the wide public . do the Leader of the House agree that we need to do more to shine a light on grassroots sport that often do not get recognition ? will she start today by congratulate the Ascension Eagles on their success in show the Americans what talent the girl and boy of east London have ? my hon . friend be certainly a great cheerleader for his constituency and for this sport , which have be raise with I before . it provide great opportunity for people to engage with sport and showcase what can be do . I declare my interest as a governor of the Royal Berkshire hospital . there be a chronic shortfall of staff in radiology and oncology . those shortage mean that people find out they have cancer later and treatment be delay , worsen survival rate . be the Leader of the House aware that 2 , 910 more clinical radiologist could be recruit if money spend outsourcing demand be spend within the NHS ? can we have a debate in Government time to scrutinise those shortfall ? we have inherit a very difficult situation when it come to cancer diagnosis and many other diagnosis across our health service . that be why we be boost healthcare spending in the come year , as we do yesterday in the spending review . we will publish a dedicated national cancer plan shortly , and that will include how we can identify and diagnose cancer early . I recently have the privilege of meet the Seaton Sluice defibrillator group — an amazing group of volunteer who have manage to secure funding for 16 defibrillator in the village , and who also provide training and service for they . can we have a debate on how we can support group such as the Seaton Sluice defibrillator group , and will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate and thank all the volunteer who support they in this effort ? I join my hon . friend in thank all the volunteer in her constituency for get those defibrillator , because they can absolutely save life . it be really important that we get they into as many community as possible , and we be commit to improve access to they . as ever , I be sure they would make a good topic for a debate . Emma from Tring live with a rare genetic connective tissue disorder as well as comorbid condition , which mean that she live in pain every day . despite that , she have work hard to build a great career in the NHS . although she understand that reform to disability allowance be need , the change absolutely terrify she . simply function on a daily basis come at a significant physical and financial cost , and she have lose her personal independence payment , which will lead to her deterioration and to the loss of her career . can we have a debate about the impact of the change to disability allowance , especially on those who proudly use it to get into work ? I hear what the hon . Lady say . many of we have meet constituent with fluctuate illness like the one she describe , and I understand that this be a worrying time for people . we have have the Green Paper . we will shortly bring forward a piece of legislation to consider far the eligibility criterion for the personal independence payment , and I be sure that she will want to debate they . yesterday I host an event for 70 lead expert ahead of World Continence Week . this include campaigner for the Bins for Boys campaign , which aim to ensure that everybody have the dignity of be able to dispose of item like stoma bag , catheter and pad . one of my guest be Pete Reed OBE , a three - time gold medallist and retired lieutenant commander who be now a patient advocate . he highlight the fact that we do not have suitable bin in our male toilet . could the Leader of the House please support the campaign to ensure that bin be available for the dignity of our guest ? my hon . friend raise the really important issue of World Continence Week and the availability of appropriate bin to dispose of thing in man ' s toilet as well as in woman ' s . I be sure that we can take up those issue . first of all , on behalf of my party , may I covey our thought and prayer for the people involve in the air crash in India ? I think it be appropriate that we do so . I wish to raise the urgent case of prisoner of conscience Junaid Hafeez , a pakistani lecturer who have be sentence to death on widely condemn blasphemy charge . since his arrest in 2013 , his trial have be repeatedly delay and he have face solitary confinement after attack in prison . his first lawyer be kill , highlight the danger in defend freedom of expression in Pakistan . will the Leader of the House ask the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office what representation the Foreign Secretary have make to the pakistani authority and international partner to secure Junaid Hafeez ' s release , ensure a fair trial , push for blasphemy law reform and ensure full religious freedom ? may I thank the hon . gentleman for raise this issue ? the Government remain deeply concerned about the use of blasphemy law to undermine human right in Pakistan , and those conversation between our government and other government happen continuously . the Foreign Secretary be in his place , so I be sure that he have hear the hon . Gentleman ' s call . June be indeed a very special month for birthday — as you will know , Mr Speaker , give that you celebrate your birthday this week . will the Leader of the House join I in celebrate the 100th birthday of the Doncaster Free Press and recognise the importance of local newspaper in our region ? well , I can confirm that it be not Mr Speaker ' s 100th birthday — he fall well short of that . Weren ' t you 21 again this week , Mr Speaker ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate Doncaster Free Press and all our local newspaper on continue to provide a trusted source of local news that many of our constituent rely on . on Friday last week , a mass brawl break out outside a primary school in my constituency , with child as young as four and their family witness violent act , and they be understandably scared . will the Leader of the House join I in condemn this disgraceful behaviour and in commend Cleveland police and the school for their response , and can she secure a statement from the Justice Secretary to ensure the perpetrator of such crime feel the full force of the law ? I of course join my hon . friend in condemn this awful incident in his constituency . I thank his local police and the school for their swift response , and I look forward to justice be serve . Mr Speaker , as a proud Lancastrian like myself , you will be aware that this Friday be Whit Friday , and that across the north - west we still have a strong tradition of Whit walk and carnival , where brass band play to our local community . some of our fabulous local band , include Milnrow , Wardle Academy , Wardle Anderson , Littleborough and Bloom Music will be perform at the internationally renowned Saddleworth and Oldham Whit Friday band contest . will the Leader of the House join I in blow their trumpet — or , more appropriately , cornet — and have a debate in Government time on the brilliance of brass band across the country ? my hon . friend may be slightly well at pun than I , but I join he in celebrate Whit walk . I can confirm that his constituency do a great turn at that , and I join he in trumpet all those in his constituency who participate . this be Carers week — 9 to 15 June — and Carers Week 2025 be focus on care about equality . million of people across the UK provide unpaid care for an ill , old or disabled family member , and their support be worth a staggering £ 184 billion a year to our country . in my constituency , we be very fortunate to have a wonderful organisation call Carers of West Dunbartonshire , which provide outstanding support to unpaid carer and help promote equality of opportunity for carer . will the Leader of the House join I in recognise their effort , and thank the staff and member of Carers of West Dunbartonshire for all they do throughout the year ? I join my hon . friend in thank all the carer in his constituency and right across this country . the Government remain committed to support carer . they do a fantastic and wonderful job — and , as he say , they also save the state a huge amount of money through the work they do . a well - establish local business and employer in my constituency be face an ongoing and costly administrative issue with his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs . it have be try since January to close an outdated vat bond that be no long require , yet despite repeat attempt , include formal letter to six hmrc department , it have receive no response . Virgin Money continue to charge fee for this unnecessary bond , place an unfair financial burden on a company that employ local people and contribute to our local community . will the Leader of the House agree to a debate in Government time on how HMRC can be make more responsive and accountable to small business face bureaucratic deadlock ? this sound like a particularly frustrating situation for my hon . friend ' s constituent . if she give I the full detail of the case , I will make sure that HMRC deal with it quickly . my constituent Peter from Liverton Mines and Morgan from Brotton be very keen to buy electric vehicle , but they be unable to because they do not have driveway on which to charge they . will the Government take it upon themselves to make it easy for people to buy electric vehicle , and find solution to pavement charging ? I be aware that that be my hon . friend ' s 132nd question to this House since he be elect in July , which be double the number his predecessor ask in his first year , so I congratulate he on that . he raise the very important issue of electric vehicle and the need for we to get access to they . this week , I be delighted to welcome pupil from Doon Academy in Dalmellington to Parliament . they be able to make the trip due to the community benefit from local windfarm . a few week ago , I pay a visit to the school to learn about its " kind to mind " group . student have create a safe place for student in the school to connect and talk about how they feel . would the Leader of the House make time for a debate on what action can be take to support mental health in our community , particularly for our young people ? we be commit to provide mental health support , especially for our young people . we have an ambitious programme to do just that , and I be sure that Health Ministers will keep we update . Mr Speaker , this week have be a great week for rugby league with Billy Boston be knight , but you will be astonish to find out that only one former boxer have ever be knight — Sir Henry Cooper . do the Leader of the House agree that more grassroot , working - class sport star should be knight , and that maybe Kevin Sinfield and Lennox Lewis would be a good start ? I be sure the authority have hear what my hon . Friend say . he do a really good job of championing work - class sport , particularly box and rugby league , and I know that that they matter greatly to his constituent . New College Lanarkshire be recently recognise as further education institution of the year at the Herald education award . Deputy principal Ann Baxter and student Chloe Sandilands be also recognise , win the lifetime achievement and outstanding contribution category . will my right hon . friend join I in congratulate all at the college on its 160th anniversary ? do she agree that the Scottish Government must end their unfair cut to the college sector to allow people access to the skill that they need ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate New College Lanarkshire on all its achievement , and on its 160th anniversary . he be absolutely right . this UK Government have boost funding to further education . now that the Scottish Government have the Barnett consequential for that , they really have no excuse . the volunteer of the Southwick Village Green Preservation Society have for six year work with pride and love to improve the green in my constituency . thank to their effort , it not only look beautiful but celebrate the proud history of Southwick , include the contribution of suddicker to shipbuilde , and in world war . will the Leader of the House join I in thank they for what they do , and consider a debate on the contribution that such voluntary group make ? I certainly join my hon . friend in congratulate all those involve in improve the Southwick village green , and thank all volunteer in all our constituency for what they do . I have an extremely harrowing meeting with a mum in my constituency . her 12 - year - old son have be groom by an artificial intelligence chatbot through character . ai . it be utterly unacceptable that young people be expose to the risk and harm of AI in this way . the Online Safety Act 2023 be a step in the right direction , but do the Leader of the House agree that we must do more ? will she make further space to debate this vital issue in this House ? I be really sorry to hear of this horrific case of a young person in her constituency be groom by an AI bot . it highlight far the challenge we face . my hon . friend be right that the previous Government bring in the Online Safety Act . we need to see how that unfold , but if we need to strengthen it , we will . the minor injury unit at Cannock Chase hospital temporarily close more than five year ago . in August , the Staffordshire and Stoke - on - Trent integrate care board announce proposal to permanently close our MIU , but it have be radio silence since October . my constituent be have to use unreliable bus service to travel elsewhere , or call an ambulance , which be the opposite of what the ICB want to achieve . will the Leader of the House grant a debate on the importance of urgent care , particularly in more deprived community , like Cannock Chase ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight the access that his constituent need to urgent and emergency care in his constituency . I be sorry to hear of the closure of the minor injury unit . the Minister for Secondary Care will be here shortly for a statement . he might want to raise that with she then . will the Leader of the House join I in praise Labour - lead Rugby borough council and all involve in organise the forthcoming Love Rugby festival , which will take place from 20 June to 6 July in our town centre ? it bring together Rugby ' s diverse community and celebrate our amazing people , open space , volunteer and venue . town centre business be throw open their door , as be the Rugby Art Gallery and Museum . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on run , I be glad that the festival include a " couch to 5k " run , which I will be join . I wonder whether you , Mr Speaker , and perhaps the Leader of the House , might make the 55 - minute train journey up to Rugby to join I , and take part in celebrate pride and place in Rugby ? I always prefer invitation that involve eat thing , rather than run , but I will consider it . we have hear a lot about rugby today , but my hon . friend raise a different kind of Rugby . I be sure that many people will be visit his constituency . I be contact this week by a constituent whose son need to see an occupational therapist . her son be one year old , but because he do not yet have child disability living allowance , he can not be give a referral . the Department for Work and Pensions say that the current wait for a child disability allowance application to be process be 25 week . that be just not acceptable . can the Leader of the House arrange for a statement to be make to this House on the step that the Department be take to clear the backlog it inherit ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise the issue of the delay in application for disability living allowance , particularly for child , which be both unprecedented and unacceptable . the Government be take action to bring they down , but I will ensure that the case he mention get think . Gibraltar my thought , and I be sure those of the entire House , be with those who have be affect by the tragic plane crash in India this morning . we know that british national be on board . I can confirm , Mr Speaker , that the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office be work urgently with local authority to support british national and their family , and have stand up a crisis team in both Delhi and London . with permission , Mr Speaker , I will now make a statement on Gibraltar . yesterday , the United Kingdom reach a political agreement with the European Union on the last major unresolved issue from our decision to leave the EU , provide much - need certainty for people and business in Gibraltar . the deal remove another obstacle to close tie with our EU friend and , crucially , protect british sovereignty over the Rock . the need for this deal be well understand . as member across the House have often highlight , the current situation be not sustainable . every single day , approximately 15 , 000 people — half of Gibraltar ' s workforce — cross the land border with Spain to do their job , and to buy good and service . without a solution , the EU ' s incoming system of entry and exit control would have introduce a hard border , at which every individual ' s passport would be check , and all british good head for Gibraltar ' s supermarket shelf would be subject to time - consume custom check . that would cause chaos and backlog , endanger the livelihood of british citizen in Gibraltar , wreck the territory ' s economy and possibly cost it hundred of million of pound a year , and place pressure , ultimately , on the UK taxpayer to pick up the bill . all my predecessor since the referendum have have to wrestle with the loom threat to Gibraltar ' s economy and way of life . these issue be , regrettably , leave out of the EU exit negotiation . the previous Government begin further talk to address they in 2021 , when the former right hon . member for Esher and Walton be Foreign Secretary . the issue be take forward by the right hon . member for Braintree ( Sir James Cleverly ) , and the noble Lord Cameron of Chipping Norton come close to reach an agreement . I pay tribute to their effort , and to they for brief I on Privy Council term when I be in opposition . it fall to this Government , when we come into office last year , to get a deal over the line , and it be imperative that we do . Gibraltar be part of the british family . its people be british citizen . its military facility be of the utmost importance to Britain ' s security , protect important global trade route in volatile geopolitical time . Britain be safe thank to the work of our armed force on the Rock . since come into office , therefore , we have make it a priority to negotiate a lasting solution with the European Commission and Spain . I acknowledge the role of the Minister for Europe , North America and the Overseas Territories , who , in opposition and government , have be a relentless advocate for the people of Gibraltar , and have be integral to find a mutually beneficial way forward . I also thank the Minister for the Armed Forces , as well as the dedicated team of Foreign Office diplomat for all their effort , lead by Lindsay Appleby in Brussels and Robbie Bulloch in London ; their negotiate skill and deft diplomacy have be in the fine tradition of our diplomatic service . british Ministers and official have work hand in glove with the Government of Gibraltar to conclude these tricky negotiation . Chief Minister Fabian Picardo have be at the table at every single stage of the process . yesterday , he welcome I to Gibraltar before we travel together to Brussels to conclude the talk — as he say , as " a united british family " . this government would never agree to any solution that do not have the full support of the Government of Gibraltar — nothing about Gibraltar without Gibraltar . the Chief Minister have say that what we have agree be " something remarkable … something bold . something forward - look and hopeful . " I pay tribute to all those whose tireless effort have help to get we here . we have protect Gibraltar ' s sovereignty , economy and way of life for the long term . since 2021 , this and previous government have be involve in 19 formal round of talk and countless technical discussion , sherpa meeting and ministerial call — it be a massive collective effort — to ensure that Gibraltar could continue to prosper . we have agree a unique and practical solution to the problem face Gibraltar , the only british overseas territory that share a border with the EU ' s visa - free Schengen area . its people ' s livelihood depend on a fluid border . our solution will deliver job , investment and stability , not just for Gibraltar , but for the entire region . british sovereignty over the whole of Gibraltar , include British Gibraltar territorial water , remain sacrosanct and iron - clothe . on start talk , I immediately secure an agreement to add a clause explicitly protect our sovereignty , and the same go for british Forces Gibraltar , which will continue to operate without interference or interruption , exactly as it do today . traffic at the border between Gibraltar and Spain will be able to flow , without check on the people cross . resident of Gibraltar and of nearby spanish community will be able to go about their daily life , as they have do . for those arrive by air at Gibraltar ' s airport , there will be dual border control check — a model similar to the one whereby french police operate in London ' s St Pancras station . ignore the fake news : Gibraltar will not be join Schengen . that be never on the table . immigration , policing and justice in Gibraltar will remain the responsibility of Gibraltar ' s authority . as for product enter Gibraltar across its land border , there will be a unique good and custom model , avoid the need for onerous check at the border . with this pragmatic solution , flight will be able to operate from Gibraltar airport across Europe , drive growth and job for the people of Gibraltar . this government be show that a pragmatic , positive relationship with the European Union pay off for the british public . just as at the UK - EU summit last month , we be solve the problem leave by the previous Government and their thin Brexit deal , and be make work people across the british family safe and well off . we can now also strengthen our co - operation with Spain , our NATO ally , a place that british people know so well . I be grateful to my counterpart in Spain and the EU for complete these negotiation in good faith , in the spirit of win - win solution for all party involve . this agreement pave the way for finalisation of the UK - EU treaty text on Gibraltar . all party have commit to complete this as quickly as possible . I can reassure hon . member that the House will have the opportunity to scrutinise it in the usual way . I hope that member from all part of the House take this matter with the seriousness that it deserve and back the solution that Gibraltar ' s Chief Minister and I have come to , guarantee Gibraltar ' s sovereignty , economy and way of life . this be what competent government look like : fix problem , not create they ; stand up for our overseas territory , not leave they expose ; and protect Britain ' s interest abroad , to ensure security and growth at home . with this agreement , Gibraltar will have easy access to the european economy . its business can plan for the long - term once again , and its citizen can feel reassure about their future . Britain ' s commitment to Gibraltar remain as solid as the Rock itself . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . the thought of the whole House will be with those affect by the plane crash in Ahmedabad , Gujarat , and the emergency service at the scene . I thank the Foreign Secretary for assure we about the assistance that will be give to the family affect . as we know , british national be involve . on the statement , I pay tribute to the Chief Minister of Gibraltar , Fabian Picardo , and his team for the constructive way they have approach this issue . they work constructively with Ministers in the previous Conservative Government to set out the negotiating position and red line , the UK have recognise the choice that Gibraltar make in its interest . the Chief Minister state in a letter to the former European Scrutiny Committee that " the UK and Gibraltar have never work more closely together in deliver the outcome that the People of Gibraltar want " . as my noble Friend Lord Cameron of Chipping Norton say when he give evidence to the Committee last year : " Fabian Picardo and I be join at the hip : we will not agree anything that we be not both comfortable with . " the Foreign Secretary have acknowledge his predecessor ' s work and take time to reflect on it and secure this outcome . will he also acknowledge that this negotiating process have be frustrate by Spain , which , as we know , block these issue from be resolve through the Brexit negotiation ? his Majesty ' s opposition will judge the deal agree on whether it meet the aim and objective that we outline when in government with Gibraltar and once we see the full detail . our principle have be that nothing compromise or infringe on the sovereignty and constitutional arrangement of Gibraltar , which be to remain british . we believe that we must able to operate our base as we have do to safeguard our defence and interest , and that the deal must be back by the Government of Gibraltar and Gibraltar ' s people to support their interest . it must also address the concern about the action of Spain to frustrate and prevent the free flow of good . I hear what the Foreign Secretary say in his statement and in the joint statement from the Government of Gibraltar , the UK Government and the EU Commission . I have the follow question . can the Foreign Secretary confirm when the House will get to see the full detail of the deal and the treaty ? in a letter to the House of Lords International Agreements Committee , the Minister responsible for the Indo - Pacific , the hon . member for Hornsey and Friern Barnet ( Catherine West ) , comment on the benefit to scrutiny of share the initial treaty text in advance of its be lay formally . give the importance of the issue , will the Foreign Secretary make a draft available to the House before signing , and will he commit to make parliamentary time available to debate the treaty ? can the Foreign Secretary confirm whether the red line that the last Government set with the Government of Gibraltar have be meet or whether , during the negotiation and since he take office last year , there have be any divergence from they ? can he give assurance that under this deal we will see a stop to the game that have be play by the Spanish that disrupt the border and the freedom that Gibraltarians should enjoy ? they cause disruption in the EU , so have he receive commitment from Spain and the EU that this will never happen again ? with in excess of 15 , 000 people cross the border every day , it be vital for economic interest that a fluid border , which Gibraltar want , be in place . that be why when we be in government we respect the choice of Gibraltar to work to achieve this . no mention be make of the military base in the joint statement , but the Foreign Secretary have reference it . can he confirm that nothing will be agree that infringe on our ability to operate the base , and will member of our armed force be able to access Gibraltar without need Schengen check ? on the juxtaposed border control , can he give more detail about their practical operation and explain to the House how they will work ? can spanish officer stop a british citizen from come to stay in Gibraltar ? will british citizen ' time stay in Gibraltar count against the 90 - day Schengen limit ? finally , the joint statement issue list area that the agreement will include , cover state aid , taxation , the environment , transport , the right of frontier worker , social security co - operation and financial mechanism on training and employment . however , there be a lack of detail . when will the detail come forward , and when will we be able to scrutinise they ? do this put Gibraltar in a custom union with the EU ? what do this mean for vat ? will there be any provision that will require Gibraltar or the United Kingdom to pass legislation , include to enact any EU law ? conservative will always defend british sovereignty and the right of Gibraltar , and we will continue to scrutinise the detail of this deal so that nothing undermine this . I be grateful to the shadow Foreign Secretary for the tone of her remark . she be absolutely right to pay tribute to Fabian Picardo , the Chief Minister of Gibraltar , who have be fantastic to work with throughout this . as I say to he , nothing about Gibraltar without Gibraltar . he have be in the room every time that talk have be conduct . I be grateful to previous Foreign Secretaries for the briefing that they give I in office . may I be clear that the military base will continue to operate as it do today ? there will be zero change . it be vital for UK national security , and it be protect by this agreement . that be a red line for we throughout the negotiation . the right hon . Lady ask whether the arrangement change with the change of government . on the red line that be set out by the Gibraltar Government , the answer be no . the only thing that change be that I insist that there be a sovereignty clause , which she will see when the treaty be publish . the right hon . Lady ask how quickly we will be able to share the treaty . we hope to do so as quickly as possible . she will recognise that there be a lot of technical detail . work be ongoing with lawyer to draft the treaty , and between the European Union and Spain to ensure that the language in it be align , but we will get to that point as quickly as we can . the right hon . Lady ask about parliamentary scrutiny . I assure she that we will follow the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act process , as be right . Parliament will be able fully to scrutinise the treaty , and to debate the term of the treaty if it wish , as she would expect . the right hon . Lady ask about Schengen . as I say in the statement , this be never on the table . I give she the assurance that immigration , policing and justice in Gibraltar will remain the responsibility of the Gibraltar authority . the right hon . Lady ask about vat . I assure she that Gibraltar will not be apply vat and will maintain its fiscal sovereignty . the right hon . Lady ask about the 90 - day rule . because there will , in effect , now not be check at the land border , it be right that Gibraltarians can come and stay as long as they want . but for those who be travel into Gibraltar from Spain , or those who be arrive in Gibraltar at the airport , I can confirm that the 90 - day rule will apply across both Gibraltar and Spain . I recognise that these question touch on the issue that dominate this House follow the decision to leave the European Union , which be , of course , a decision that divide the nation . but this moment , this deal and this arrangement , for which Gibraltar be in the room , represent a conclusion to that period . I be very grateful for the tone that the Official Opposition have take . I have to admit that when Brexit happen , I think that the problem of Gibraltar would be so difficult that I really do not see how we would ever get over it . it be a tribute to the flair , the flexibility and the fraternity on display on all four side of the negotiation that the Foreign Secretary have be able to come to this place to announce such a great success , and I congratulate he and his team wholeheartedly . the Foreign Secretary talk about our scrutinise this matter in the usual way under the CRaG process . I have to say that I think the CRaG process be rubbish , and I ask he to look again at , in essence , our have the right , as oppose to be give it by largesse , to debate and vote on a treaty . the requirement be that the Government lie before Parliament a treaty , which this House may resolve not to ratify during a 21 - day delay . how that be do , I frankly do not know , because it have never be do , but it could , in theory , result in a delay of 21 sitting day . in many case , it would be not so much ping - pong as hoof the ball up the pitch again and again . the CRaG process be obscure and out of date . it be basically the Ponsonby rule , and it be unfit for the 21st century and unfit for this place . I ask the Foreign Secretary to look at it again . I will begin by congratulate my right hon . friend on become a dame and on her trip to Buckingham Palace yesterday . I hear what she say about the CRaG process . I recognise the importance of that to the House , so through the usual channel , we will do everything that we can to ensure that there be the appropriate parliamentary scrutiny , and that the House can remain united and confident that Gibraltar remain sovereign , that the base be secure and that our relationship with both Spain and the EU be appropriately intact . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . our thought also go out to all those family involve in the tragic air crash in India today . I thank the Foreign Secretary for advance sight of his statement . the Conservatives ' botched deal with Europe leave Gibraltar in a state of limbo for year . our hope be that this new agreement will work to the genuine benefit of Gibraltarians , leave no linger question over the status of Britain ' s sovereignty of the territory and our commitment to the self - determination of Gibraltarians . there be a number of vital principle at stake . to ensure that the deal effectively secure the future of the gibraltarian economy , it be vital that Parliament be give the opportunity to scrutinise the detail of the agreement and vote on it . will the Minister therefore commit to bring the deal before the House for a review and outline when MPs can expect to vote on it ? it be also vital that the Government provide further clarity on the timeline for implement the deal . will the Minister therefore confirm whether a provisional date have be agree for its implementation and whether that timeline provide enough of an opportunity for parliamentarian to provide adequate scrutiny ? another principle be that nothing about Gibraltar should be agree without Gibraltarians . will the Minister provide further detail on what step have be take to consult they , include representative of business , to ensure that their interest have be front and centre in the negotiation ? the spanish Government have be willing in the past to act unilaterally over Gibraltar and to the detriment of Gibraltarians . will the Minister outline what mechanism will exist in the deal to ensure compliance and effective dispute resolution in the event of future possible unilateral action , thus give confidence to Gibraltarians that the deal will be enforceable ? finally , will the Minister confirm the lifespan of the deal and whether it will include an opt - out clause , ensure the ultimate guarantee of Gibraltar ' s sovereignty ? the hon . Lady be right that the people of Gibraltar have be in limbo since the Brexit decision , which be why it be important that , in come into office and inherit this from the last government , we put every effort into it . let I again pay tribute to the Minister for Europe who roll up his sleeve and be a sherpa at a lot of those meeting , particularly over the last year . the hon . Lady ask about business . I assure she that I be with representative from the business sector in Gibraltar yesterday morning discuss what a deal would mean for they if it be reach later in the afternoon . there be one word that they keep come back to : certainty . they want certainty , and they want the opportunity of a more frictionless border arrangement with Spain and the opportunity to sell into the spanish market unhindered . that be what they say and that be what we particularly take on board . the hon . Lady rightly ask about any ability to thwart the deal that might exist in part of the spanish parliamentary system . may I remind she that the deal , appropriately , be between the United Kingdom and the European Union , that we have always be a country that meet our treaty obligation seriously and that whatever one ' s view about the European Union , it be also an organisation that meet its obligation seriously ? when we sign up to a treaty , that be what we be do . as with the trade and co - operation agreement , there be a review mechanism that would allow the appropriate review ; indeed , the UK - EU summit that we have a few week ago be an appropriate review . however , we meet our obligation under the TCA in opposition , stand up for the agreement that have be strike by the last government , and we would expect the same in this instance . may I congratulate the Foreign Secretary and Chief Minister Fabian Picardo on get this landmark agreement over the line ? the agreement far cement Gibraltar ' s place as an integral part of the british family . will the Foreign Secretary confirm to the House what further measure he be take to strengthen relationship with the overseas territory ? I be glad that my hon . Friend mention the overseas territory more generally . we have a good meeting of the head of the overseas territory at the end of last year , at which I and the Prime Minister be in attendance . we have undertake to conduct a review of our relationship to strengthen those far , and the Minister for Europe , North America and Overseas Territories be take that forward as we speak . the right hon . Gentleman will know — and he will not take this personally — that for the most part I think his Government ' s ability to negotiate be appal . the only reason I have any confidence that this might be a good deal be that the Government of Gibraltar be heavily involved . at some point in the future , this House — I include — will see the detail of this agreement , and I will know what red line I stick to when I be negotiate . to save time and for the education of the House , will he , without go into detail , let we know : do the european position , include the spanish position , move close to ours or do we move close to theirs to get this deal over the line ? I say to the right hon . Gentleman that we strengthen the deal , and we do that by put in a sovereignty clause to ensure that there be no question about the sovereignty of Gibraltar and its unique relationship as part of the family of the United Kingdom . we be able to reach a deal yesterday that the European Union and the UK have negotiate . we ensure that Fabian Picardo be in the room at every meeting and the European Union ensure that Spain be in the room at every meeting . the right hon . Gentleman will know that Gibraltar have be a block on our bilateral relationship with Spain . this be an opportunity for we to work with Spain and to deepen that relationship , as we have be able to do with so many other country across Europe . I use to live in Andalusia , close to the Gibraltar border , so this issue be very close to my heart and I congratulate the Foreign Secretary on the deal . the people of Spain , Gibraltar and Britain be very close , we have very deep link and , as they say in Spain , " Hacemos buena migas . " do the Foreign Secretary agree that this be not only a great deal for the economy of Gibraltar , but a chance to deepen those relationship and continue those friendship that have go on for so many year ? I be grateful to my hon . friend , because her question give I the opportunity to remind people about the many spanish family live across the border who make their way into Gibraltar for work and to see loved one , and who be subject to check . now , those family will not have those check and it will be much more seamless to go between both side . this be a win - win for they as much as it be for those in Gibraltar . I be grateful to she for bring to mind the people , and not just the business , who will benefit . it be encouraging that the Gibraltarians be receive more consideration than the exiled Chagossians do . when the Foreign Secretary say that a sovereignty clause be insert , do that mean that Spain absolutely and explicitly recognise the sovereign relationship between Britain and Gibraltar ? if so , what have the reaction be of those element that he refer to in spanish politic that do not accept that relationship ? absolutely , Spain do recognise the sovereignty of Gibraltar and its relationship with the United Kingdom in the agreement , and the right hon . Gentleman will see that detail in the treaty . he will know that the subject of dispute over many , many year — long before many of we be in this House — be over the isthmus . much of the territory that some would describe as neutral — other have different description — exist between Gibraltar and Spain . overwhelmingly , there have be support for reach this moment on both side . I can not comment on the extremity of politic in Spain , but I be sure that these day that can be look up on social medium . my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) be the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on Gibraltar . I know she be disappointed not to be able to join we today and would want to be here to welcome today ' s UK - Gibraltar - Spain - EU agreement . it protect Gibraltar ' s sovereignty , secure the british naval base and reduce border check from 10 million to 250 , 000 a year , as well as strengthen the economy through new european flight access . that be an incredibly strong outcome . will the Foreign Secretary confirm how we will ensure its smooth and effective implementation on the ground ? I , too , pay tribute to the work of my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) for champion the people of Gibraltar and their issue and for ensure that , in come into Government , we make sure that there could not be an agreement that Gibraltar ' s representative be not content with . I should update the House that yesterday I also meet the Opposition in Gibraltar , so they be fully informed of what I hope would become a good outcome today . we will work at pace on the treaty . I can not give my hon . friend a timeline because of the technical legal detail that that will involve , but I will seek to update the House in the appropriate way if there be delay . I thank the Foreign Secretary for the tone of his statement and the tribute he pay to not only his predecessor , but the official and diplomat who have be involve in the negotiation for many year . I do not think I hear an answer to the question ask by the shadow Foreign Secretary , which be : can a british citizen fly from the UK to Gibraltar now be stop by a spanish official as they land ? on the sovereignty clause , will he clarify whether it mean that Spain have abandon its claim altogether , or do it plan to follow the same route that Mauritius do with Diego Garcia ? on the first point , we have stick to the political framework that be negotiate and agree back in 2020 by the then Foreign Secretary , the former Member for Esher and Walton . I have a photograph from the agreement that be strike , of where we would be locate effectively a joint facility in the airport . there will be a second line queue , as there be in St Pancras , and there will be spanish border guard and police situate in that second line . of course , if there be an alert at that point — not on its own , but at that point — there would be a hand - back facility with the Gibraltar police , so they will be work alongside that spanish team . if there be an alert , the individual would have the right to legal advice . they would be able to either return to their country of origin — let ' s say the UK — or voluntarily go over to Spain to face question . the key thing be that it be joint and alongside the work and effort of the Gibraltar police and the Gibraltar custom and border guard . I strongly welcome this political agreement and congratulate the Foreign Secretary and the ministerial team on achieve it . I recently meet Chief Minister Picardo , alongside my hon . friend the Member for Bolton West ( Phil Brickell ) , the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Sir Andrew Mitchell ) and other member of the all - party parliamentary group on anti - corruption and responsible tax , to welcome the progress that Gibraltar have make on anti - money laundering , include through publicly accessible register of beneficial ownership . will the Foreign Secretary confirm that it be the intent in the future EU - UK agreement that there will be a section on anti - money laundering ? do he agree that it send a message to other overseas territory that tackle economic crime can be a strength in term of business confidence and investment , and not something to be fear ? I be grateful for my hon . friend ' s work in this area . he will recognise that Gibraltar , as an overseas territory , be at the strong end of tackle issue of illicit finance and be pave the way . there be more work to do on this issue and particularly on beneficial ownership . I intend to take this forward , work alongside our new envoy in this area , Baroness Hodge , and culminate , I hope , in an event in London next year . Gibraltar be british and its citizen be british by choice . I be proud to represent Gibraltar for 10 year when I serve in the European Parliament . can the Minister confirm that once the full text be available , he will allow time for both this House and the Gibraltar Parliament to scrutinise the deal before it be ratify ? I do not want to speak for the Chief Minister , but I know that he be expect for there to be the appropriate scrutiny of the Bill in the Gibraltar parliamentary system . of course , as we would expect , this have garner a lot of attention in Gibraltar . I have give my undertaking to the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) . I recognise that this be an important last aspect of our decision to leave the European Union and that it need the appropriate parliamentary scrutiny . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for his statement . can he confirm that it be his expectation that this deal will provide new opportunity for growth in trade and for business in Gibraltar ? I can confirm that . there be palpable excitement , when speak to business in Gibraltar yesterday morning , at the opportunity that would arise . of course , for small and medium - sized business , there will be some change . it be important , and we have discuss this with the Chief Minister , that we can support those business on trade , on skill in particular and on the opportunity that exist on both side of the border . I want to probe the question of whether spanish border official have an effective veto on the entry of a british citizen from the United Kingdom landing on british sovereign territory in Gibraltar . I just want absolute clarity for everybody in this House : do spanish official have a veto or not ? secondly , will the Foreign Secretary comment on the dispute resolution mechanism and whether there be a regular review clause ? I do not know if the hon . Gentleman have fly into Gibraltar airport , as I have , but if he fly into Gibraltar and there be an alert — I be not sure why there might be an alert in the Schengen system — I reassure he that as he be stop by the spanish border guard operate on behalf of the European Union , he would be hand back to the Gibraltese , where he might feel more comfortable . he would be able to access his right and the legal system that he certainly feel comfortable with , which be ours . he would be able to return to the United Kingdom , where no doubt the Spanish would seek to extradite he and many in this House would be rather pleased . notwithstanding the Foreign Secretary ' s commitment to the sovereignty clause , the question of sovereignty can only really be answer once we have the full detail of the treaty . that scrutiny be make poor by the Government ' s decision when they take office to abolish the European Scrutiny Committee , which do detailed work on this subject in the last Parliament . if I may tease out a further response , give the unique nature of Gibraltar airport , where the runway and aerodrome be own by the Ministry of Defence and operate by the Royal Air Force , will a member of the british armed force land in Gibraltar have to prove their british identity to anyone in order to go to work ? no , absolutely not . we have secure that arrangement . the hon . Gentleman will recognise that Spain be a NATO ally , and it understand the importance of that requirement . as it have be raise , let I just say that , yes , there be a dispute resolution mechanism and a termination clause , as the House would appropriately expect . this welcome agreement have be a long time come . those of we who have have the privilege of visit Gibraltar on official delegation be aware of how loyal Gibraltarians be to Britain and the british Crown . on the talk of sovereignty , I think we have establish that , other than the St Pancras - style arrangement , the spanish police will have no authority . can the Foreign Secretary confirm that no other spanish authority — custom official , for example — will have any authority on the Rock ? yesterday I meet Joe Bossano , who , at 85 , be a long - stand Member of the Gibraltar Parliament . he share his reflection on Gibraltar and its attachment to the UK , on the war and be evacuate to the UK , and on where there have be disagreement with the UK , when the UK have not understand that Gibraltar be part of the family . I give the hon . Gentleman the assurance that he seek : yes be the answer . it be clearly in the good interest of Spain and Gibraltar for there to be a free flow of individual backwards and forwards across the border . for UK citizen who fly into Spain or Gibraltar and hire a car to cross the border into Gibraltar or Spain , what check will there be at the border ? clarity on that point would help . the clarity be that there will no long be any check . if they fly into Spain , they be fly into the Schengen area . if they fly into M á laga , they be free to drive to Gibraltar without check — they would already have have those check . the same apply in the other direction . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement , but I must ask a question give the similarity between Gibraltar and Northern Ireland . the sovereignty issue face by Northern Ireland in term of european overreach on border mean that northern irish people will feel anxiety about this agreement . will the Secretary of State outline what consideration have be give to the view of Gibraltarians , and what consultation be hold regard the policy of a foreign nation on their soil ? I reassure the hon . Gentleman that our position of " nothing about Gibraltar without Gibraltar " give those guarantee , and no meeting be hold — certainly not under this Government or , I be quite sure , under the previous Government either — without the Chief Minister in the room , so that they be happy . we would not have have a deal be they not happy ; there would not have be a deal be the Chief Minister not able to stand up and say , " I be happy with this deal . " that be the guarantee we give . of course we reflect on the issue that arise in relation to Northern Ireland . Spending Review : Health and Social Care with permission , I would like to make a statement on the outcome of the spending review for the Department of Health and Social Care . this Government be elect on a manifesto to fix our break nhs and make it fit for the future . our job be twofold : first , to get the NHS back on its foot and treat patient on time again ; and secondly , to reform the service for the long - term so that it be fit for the future . that be why , in her autumn Budget , my right hon . friend the Chancellor take the necessary decision to give health and social care a record uplift in day - to - day spending at the conclusion of the first phase of the spending review . the Department for Health and Social Care receive a cash injection of £ 26 billion cover day - to - day spending and capital investment in 2025 - 26 , compare with the 2023 - 24 out - turn . all Opposition party have reject that investment and those change to repair the damage do to our NHS and move it forward . they have reject two above - inflation pay increase for our NHS staff , the recruitment of 1 , 700 more gps and the agreement of a GP contract for the first time since the pandemic , the big investment for hospice in a generation , the big expansion of carer ' s allowance since the 1970 , a boost for old and disabled people through the disabled facility grant , and the big real - term increase to the public health grant in nearly a decade . we have also give pharmacy the big funding uplift in year , ensure that woman across the country can access the morning after pill free of charge , frozen prescription charge for the first time in three year , enable an extra 3 . 5 million appointment for operation , consultation , diagnostic test and treatment — reach and surpass our manifesto pledge seven month early . I can update the House on waiting list , which , as of this morning , have fall by over 30 , 000 compare with last month , amid a reduction of 232 , 000 since this Government take office . I could go on , but I have only 10 minute , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I would not like to try your patience , so I will make this point briefly . to govern be to choose , and anyone who oppose the decision that the Chancellor take in her Budget must tell we what they would have subtract from that list . we can not spend money if we do not raise it . as the Minister of State for Secondary Care , I regularly hear appalling anecdote from colleague across the House whose local hospital , GP surgery and community service be crumble , with rusty equipment , leaky pipe and bucket catch rainwater . phase 1 of the spending review have allow we to arrest 14 year of shocking neglect and undercapitalisation in the NHS , with a record capital investment of £ 13 . 6 billion in 2025 - 26 . [ interruption . ] the Conservatives do not like it , but I will go on . that money have go towards repair our crumble hospital , support over 1 , 000 gp surgery to modernise their building , and instal state - of - the - art scanner across the NHS estate , include the late linear accelerator machine . however , as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State have make clear , investment must come with reform . this year we have unveil our plan for change , our elective reform plan , our urgent and emergency care plan and a crackdown on agency spend in order to reinvest £ 1 billion into the frontline . yesterday , my right hon . friend the Chancellor set out the conclusion of phase 2 of the spending review , set budget that will enable we to make firm plan to deliver on the people ' s priority in the come year , while go far and fast on reform . our settlement increase day - to - day spending on health , bring the budget for my Department and our NHS up to £ 232 billion by 2028 - 2029 . that mean £ 29 billion more day - to - day funding for the NHS in England , in real term , than in 2023 - 24 . we have also secure the large - ever health capital budget , with a £ 2 . 3 billion real - term increase in capital spending by 2029 - 30 , compare with 2023 - 24 , represent a more than 20 % real - term increase by the end of the spending review period . let I hammer this point home : investment must be match by reform . this will be a critical year for the NHS as we achieve well value for taxpayer , who must see their money be spend well and deliver result . we would rather take those difficult decision now , to save our nhs so that it be there for future generation . NHS England be a top - down organisation — the big quango in the world — with a less efficient system than the previous Government inherit in 2010 and twice the headcount at the centre . that be why my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister announce in March that we will bring together NHS England and the Department of Health and Social Care to form a new joint centre . that will put an end to duplication and enable substantial efficiency saving , while bring the management of our NHS back under democratic control . we will also unlock £ 17 billion of saving over the spending review period through 2 % annual productivity growth in the NHS — money that will be either reinveste in the frontline or use to support radical transformation to make the health system more agile and efficient . our elective reform plan set out how we will ensure that by the end of this Parliament 92 % of patient will not have to wait more than 18 week for elective care . this settlement will drive we far towards that goal , with over £ 6 billion of additional capital investment over five year across new diagnostic , elective and emergency and urgent care capacity , which could deliver more than 4 million additional test and procedure . we will build on the record capital investment from phase 1 to repair the NHS estate . that mean continue the delivery of 25 new hospital ; invest £ 30 billion in maintenance and repair , with £ 5 billion of it to address the most critical building repair ; and reduce by half the number of hospital contain RAAC — reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete — over this Parliament . this spending review provide for an increase of over £ 4 billion for adult social care in 2028 - 29 compare with 2025 - 26 , include an increase in the NHS contribution via the well care fund . local authority with responsibility for adult social care will also benefit from wide reform to well align funding with need , multi - year settlement and simplification of the funding landscape that enable they to plan more effectively . last but not least , we have take step to simplify target and well monitor delivery , and we will continue to work with local system to improve financial and operational performance , to get the most from every penny . a key part of our 10 - year plan be drive progress on the three shift : from analogue to digital , hospital to community and treatment to prevention . on digital , we will invest up to £ 10 billion in technology and transformation , to start make the NHS app a digital front door and deliver a single patient record . we will work in partnership with the Wellcome Trust to launch the world ' s first health datum research service , back by £ 600 million , to accelerate the discovery of lifesave drug . on primary and community care , we will invest in training thousand more gps , help to bring back the family doctor through million of extra appointment a year ; in 700 , 000 additional dentist appointment annually ; in at least 8 , 500 extra mental health staff by the end of this Parliament ; and in mental health support team for every school within five year . finally , on prevention , our world - lead immunisation programme will be support by £ 2 billion , and we will invest £ 80 million in tobacco cessation programme and our Tobacco and Vapes Bill . I want to end by thank the Chancellor for her unwavering commitment to get our NHS back on its foot . fix break Britain will not be easy , but nothing that be worth do ever be . today I have set out how every penny from the public purse will be match by reform , to make our nhs fit for the future . we remember we be elect on a manifesto to end sticking - plaster politic and do the hard yard of fix our country , and we will never betray that promise to the british people . the public have a right to know how public money will be spend , and this be something we take extremely seriously . they can put their trust in this government , because we have fix the NHS before , and with the help of this Chancellor , we will fix it again . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . yesterday , yet again , we see the Chancellor do what the Labour party always do : default to high spending , more borrowing and high taxis , leave the public finance vulnerable . the Minister have speak of additional funding for the NHS . to use the same comparison as the NHS England chief executive , the NHS budget will now be roughly the equivalent of the entire gdp of Portugal , yet we be still none the wiser as to how the Government actually intend to use most of the money — there be no real detail and no real plan . just last September , the Prime Minister pledge that there would be no more money without reform . despite the Minister ' s word , that be exactly what the Government have do . there be still no plan for reform , and the Secretary of State be unwilling to set out the bold reform that be need . despite 14 year in opposition and nearly one year in government , the Labour party have fail to come up with a plan for the NHS , with the exception of the abolition of NHS England , which will not happen for year and appear to be delay and in chaos . minister respond to every write parliamentary question about it by say they can not set out the saving , how the people will change or how the structure will change at this stage — yet again , there be still no plan . we have be very clear that where the Government be wrong , we will oppose it , but where they get something right , we will work constructively with they . that include reform , but there be still no reform for we even to consider support . can the Minister tell we where the £ 29 billion she set out will be spend ? the chief executive of the NHS Confederation say yesterday that increase in NHS staff pay will " account for a large proportion " of the funding increase . the former NHS chief financial officer echo that view at the Health and Social Care Committee in January , say that pretty much all the last tranche of additional spending be absorb by pay rise , national insurance and inflation . can the Minister confirm how much the pay offer from the independent pay review body , alongside increase national insurance , will cost , how much of this funding will have to go to cover that and how much will actually make it to the frontline to improve patient service ? the Minister touch on the aim of meet the NHS 18 - week target for hospital waiting time within this Parliament . of course , we wish the Government well in achieve that and hope they succeed , but just yesterday the Times report that internal departmental modelling show they be not on track and could only come close to meet the target with " implausible " and " over - optimistic " assumption . the independent Institute for Fiscal Studies agree . can the Minister set out how the Government will meet that target ? again , where be the plan ? we need a plan , not empty rhetoric . it be clear that the NHS need reform , not just more funding , so when will the 10 - year plan finally be publish ? will it be before the one - year anniversary of the Labour party be in government ? will it be like their elective reform plan : simply a reheat of the plan that Sajid Javid bring forward in 2022 , with nothing new ? the Secretary of State need to be more ambitious — word that I suspect will never be echo by the Prime Minister or his team in No . 10 . the capital budget remain broadly flat in real term from this year onwards . the Minister have say she wish to continue with the new hospital programme and invest in technology to boost productivity , but it be unclear how that can be achieve with this settlement . these be not my warning but those of respected independent think - tank , include the Nuffield Trust and the King ' s Fund . the Chancellor ' s plan be clear — indeed , not one Treasury Minister have rule it out : more tax rise be come . finally , and importantly , we have see social care largely neglect again by this Government . there be just two sentence about it in a four - page statement . social care deserve well . the Minister know very well that we can not improve the NHS without social care work well . early today I meet with social care provider . they want to see reform , yet the Government have apparently abandon cross - party talk on social care reform for an independent commission lead by the very able Baroness Casey , who be still do her Home Office work on groom gang and be yet to be full time on this commission , which have a deeply unambitious finishing time of 2028 . when will Baroness Casey be full time on the commission ? these provider be clear that they want a seat at the table when well care fund be distribute by the NHS — they want to have their voice hear in decision making on that funding . will the Minister agree to that ? finally , the Chief Secretary to the Treasury say he have model his assumption on continue trend in local government finance and local government precept — in other word , a 5 % uplift in the precept . however , a large number of county be now control by Reform — whose member be , as ever , notably absent from the Chamber when we talk about health and social care — who have pledge no tax rise whatsoever in their council . if they do that , what be the Minister ' s plan to make sure social care be fund ? as ever , the Government have go for the headline announcement , but sadly without a plan , without delivery and with no real reform to benefit patient . I be entirely unclear , after that run - through of a number of different issue , whether the Conservatives welcome the extra investment in the NHS or oppose it . we know they oppose the mean of fund it , but after that , I have no idea . at some point , they have to make up their mind whether they support that extra investment or not . as I say in my statement , if they do not , what out of the list of the improvement that we have already make would they not do ? as Lord Darzi make clear , under the Conservatives ' watch for 14 year the NHS be break . staff be leave with out - of - date equipment and unable to do the job they need to do . we agree with Lord Darzi ' s diagnosis , but conservative Members have still not say whether they agree with it , or apologise for the state they leave the system in . I do not know whether the right hon . member for Melton and Syston ( Edward Argar ) have not be able to read the elective reform plan or the urgent emergency care plan that we publish recently . it be up to he to read those plan properly and try to understand what be happen . the right hon . Gentleman have start to do my job for I again , because he cite various think - tank and people who have say that this can not be do . well , I can tell he that we be tell , for example , that waiting list would not drop in April because of seasonality , but we have show — by keep a relentless focus on the system , work closely with leader on the frontline and be clear with official in the Department — that it can be do . that be what we hear this morning . we be take a relentless approach to spending , line by line , throughout the NHS and the Department of Health and Social Care . we have roll up our sleeve and we will not accept put more and more taxpayer ' money into a leaky system , which be what happen under the right hon . Gentleman ' s Government . if he have read the patient satisfaction survey , he would know that taxpayer across the country , in all our constituency , love the NHS . they understand that the Tory party break it and that it will take long time to fix . they also know that they be pay more taxis for it and get a bad service , and they expect we to do much well . that be what we have already show we be do , and what we will continue to do . I have outline the capital that be go into the new hospital programme , which we be commit to , and we have already see increase in diagnostic capability and surgical hub throughout our constituency . we will continue to do more of that . I agree with the right hon . Gentleman that it be critical to ensure that social care be support alongside the NHS . that be why £ 4 billion be go into social care through our colleague in the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government , and as he know , Louise Casey will publish her interim report next year . we be clear that fiscal responsibility do not stop at the Treasury or down in Victoria Street with the Department of Health and Social Care . it be important that everybody in the NHS be aware that we be determined to fix the NHS and put it back on a sustained footing . there be record investment ; that be our commitment to people , and I know from the people I work with in the health service over many year that they be determined to make it well . Morale sink to an all - time low under the conservative party , but we be raise that morale , and we will continue to work with the system to make sure that it be fit for the future . I welcome my hon . friend ' s statement about the record funding go into our NHS . we be already see the benefit in my constituency , with million of pound go into investment in our hospital ; that be so desperately need to get waiting list down . People be leave behind by the conservative party , and I note that there be still no apology to any of my resident who be leave in pain and agony for year and year under their watch — not one word of an apology . one of the big challenge face my constituent be access an NHS dentist — my hon . friend know about that from the time she come to visit I during my campaign . I be campaign to get new dentist for my constituent in Gloucester , so will she help I to get a meeting with the relevant Minister to ensure that some of this record funding come to Gloucester to get an NHS dentist for all my constituent ? as my hon . Friend say , this be a health area that I know well , and he have be the most amazing campaigner for Gloucester and the health service there since he become the Member of Parliament . he be absolutely right : dentistry be a key worry . it be one of the key area that the conservative party neglect for 14 year . that be why it be a manifesto commitment , and why I be able to outline today that meet the target of 700 , 000 be front and centre , and part of the plan as we go forward . I know that the Minister for Care , who be responsible for dentistry , be keen to meet many hon . member , and I will make sure he have hear that request . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . to reiterate : after year of conservative mismanagement , the NHS be in crisis , with patient leave wait hour for ambulance , woman give birth in unsafe maternity unit , and child turn up at A & E with rot tooth because an NHS dentist can not be find . that be the conservative legacy , and they must never be trust with our health service ever again . so yes , we welcome this funding boost — we really do — and we agree that funding must come with reform , because unless this funding be target properly , it will not bring the change that patient urgently need . when it come to reform we need to talk about fix social care , because put more money into the NHS today will be like pour money into a leaky bucket . last year , the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care state that £ 1 . 7 billion a year be waste because patient who be medically fit for discharge can not leave hospital , simply because no care be available to support they at home . the hospital in Winchester that support both your constituency , Madam Deputy Speaker , and mine have up to 160 people wait to be discharge at any give time , and they would be well care for with social care package . we need urgent action and a high minimum wage for care worker . we need proper respite and financial support for family carer , and a clear commitment to conclude the social care review , hold cross - party talk , and deliver the real reform that the Minister have be talk about . we also need to tackle the crisis in primary care , because that be where prevention happen and where pressure on hospital be ease . will the Minister confirm that the funding boost will deliver the extra 8 , 000 gps that be need to guarantee everyone an appointment within seven day , or within 24 hour for urgent case ? can she also confirm that the funding will bring dentist back into the NHS , and bring an end to dental desert ? that will not happen without urgent reform of the NHS dental contract , which be outdated , unworkable and drive dentist out of the system . finally , we can not ignore the shocking state of NHS building , include our hospital in Winchester . it be an outrage that overcrowded hospital must close operating theatre due to unsafe ceiling and other health and safety issue . I urge the Minister to spend the money where it matter : on primary care , on social care , and on ensure that our exist NHS building be fit for purpose . I thank the hon . gentleman for welcome , on behalf of his party , the commitment that the Chancellor have make and the extra funding that she have identify , but I think his party still oppose the way in which we have raise the funding to do just that . it be good to have your cake and eat it , but we be clear that the funding do come with reform . as I say in my statement , we be committed to improve the front door — primary care — as well as social care and discharge . that be why the NHS contribution , as part of the settlement to the well care fund , increase . he will be aware that we previously revise the well care fund to make it well and more target on discharge , which be important . the urgent and emergency care plan that we publish a couple of week ago also confirm our recognition that flow through the hospital system be important for patient and staff ; we must ensure that we do not face that continue crisis of corridor care over many year . we be committed to the fair pay agreement , and our colleague in the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government will make more statement in the come week about how that will work . I draw the attention of the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for dentistry and oral health . access to NHS dentistry be in crisis , include in my constituency . new analysis by the British Dental Association show that the share of NHS funding spend on dentistry have more than halve since 2010 , from over 3 % to just 1 . 5 % . I know how commit the Government be to reform the dental contract , but the Public Accounts Committee make it clear that reform will work only if it be back by proper , sustainable funding . will the Minister ensure that NHS dentistry get a fair share of the £ 29 billion announce in the spending review , so that we can end forever the crisis that be affect million across the country ? I thank my hon . friend for her question and for the work she do to support NHS dentistry as part of the all - party group . as I have say , this issue be of huge importance to our constituent , and the shocking state in which the Conservatives leave dentistry be there for all to see — particularly the shocking state of child ' s oral health . that be why we act rapidly to introduce the toothbrushing campaign — which , if I remember rightly , be ridicule by Conservative Members when we discuss it in opposition — and the arrangement with Colgate to ensure that we improve child ' s oral health . we be absolutely committed to reform of the contract ; the Minister for Care be work hard on that and he will continue to update the House regularly . it be our confirm commitment , as I have reiterate today , to increase access to dental service . I call the Father of the House . our spending on the NHS be now as much as the entire gdp of Portugal . we use to be a country with an NHS attach to it , but we be almost become an NHS with a country attach to it . of course we would welcome this spending if we get the same outcome that people get in civilised country , like the Netherlands or Australia , but every time I mention fundamental reform , I be dismiss as want to bring in privatisation , so it be hardly worth raise that issue . Australia have an extremely successful pharmaceutical benefit scheme ; I know that the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care go out there , and I have talk to australian doctor about it . will the Minister at least look at the successful outcome , include some of the high life expectancy in the world , that be be deliver in country like Australia and the Netherlands , to see how we can deliver well outcome ? there be no point spend more money if people ' s only right be to join the back of a queue . I be expect the right hon . gentleman to talk about the funding model , and I be disappointed that he do not ; it be something that he have talk about for many year . I do not know the detail of the australian model , but will ensure that he get a proper answer . I be always happy , as be my right hon . friend the Secretary the State , to look at model from across the world . we want to learn from the good , and we want to deliver the good in the NHS . the Conservatives seem to have an obsession with input into the health service . it be true that the last Government put more money in , but it go into a leaky bucket and they get nothing out . this Government have take a different approach . we be not just take money from the Treasury , hand it out and then come back for more . we be be very clear with provider and the system more generally . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State be talk at the NHS Confederation conference this afternoon ; we be work with they to ensure that we look not just at the input , but at what go on in the system . we want to ensure value for taxpayer ' money in all our constituency . there be outstanding example of both financial and operational good practice across the country . we want to take the good to the rest , and make the good of every taxpayer pound . the Minister have demonstrate the difference that a Labour Government make to our NHS , and to the people of our country . as she mention , reform be need . may I draw her attention to the report by the independent Commission on Palliative and end of life Care ? around 100 , 000 people can not access hospice care , and too few people be able to access specialist palliative care . the report demonstrate a new system of end of life and palliative care that will transform people ' s end of life experience . to go alongside the reform agenda , will she ensure that we invest in that precious time in people ' s life , and deliver a comprehensive palliative care service ? my hon . friend be right to highlight end of life care . we know it have be neglect . I work on it during my time in the health service , over 15 year ago , and I feel very passionately about it . it be important that we support people . we must have a system that allow people to have those conversation , and that ensure there be option for people throughout the pathway of their life . the Minister for Care be work hard to ensure that happen as part of our overall development of the health service over the next 10 year . will the Minister confirm that the funding envelope that she set out in a letter to the Queen Elizabeth hospital in King ' s Lynn in April stand unchanged after this spending review ? yes . I warmly welcome the news that waiting list be continue to fall , not by chance , but because of the choice make by this Government . as the Minister will know , both the hospital that serve my constituency have reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete , and both have receive funding , but as I visit GP surgery and dentist , it be clear that there be a link between crumble building and the availability of appointment . will the Minister reassure I that primary care in particular will continue to be support by upgrade to building ? I thank my hon . friend for the great work that he be do to support progress on work at the RAAC hospital in his constituency . he make the excellent point that such issue exist not only in hospital . as our settlement make clear , we understand the strain in primary care , as well as in mental health service and community service , which often do not get discuss . when we publish the 10 - year plan later in the summer , he will see that the move towards community and neighbourhood health service will be front and centre of what we want to achieve over the next 10 year . like my hon . friend the Member for Winchester ( Dr Chambers ) , I welcome the increase investment , and the attention that the new Government be give to the NHS . I would like to turn our attention to dentistry . my constituency of South Devon be a dental desert . I welcome the announcement of 700 , 000 extra dental appointment , but we have lose three dental surgery since the election last year , and more be on the brink . the Government have be in office for a year now , and have talk about reform the dental contract with the NHS . if that contract be not reform , we will lose so many dentist that we will never be able to catch up . how long will it take the Government to announce a newly reform contract with NHS dentistry , so that we can start increase the number of appointment , and save the dentist surgery that we have leave ? the hon . Lady be right to highlight the shocking state that dentistry be leave in by the last Government . they could have reform that contract at any time over the past 14 year . we be ready to do that in 2010 , but thing work out differently ; we leave office , and the Liberal Democrats and the Conservatives between they do not reform the contract . the Minister for Care be work at pace to ensure that happen , and we will update the House as soon as possible . I very much welcome yesterday ' s statement , the funding , and the fact that the funding will go on for several year . do the Minister agree that we depend on the people in our NHS ? will she join I in congratulate Dr Cameron and all the team at the West Suffolk hospital , who , by adopt a whole - hospital approach , have abolish corridor care and improve the hospital ' s throughput , use a model that could be widely adopt ? I be very happy to thank Dr Cameron and the whole team . as ever , with his vast experience of the health service , my hon . friend make an excellent point . we be reliant on clinical and managerial staff to make the system well . I know , and he know , how low morale have be ; Lord Darzi make that point very clear , and we can not over - estimate how difficult that be for staff . that be why we have reach two record inflation - beat pay settlement for staff , and importantly , we have support the independent process , because we want to work with staff to make thing well at all level . my hon . Friend give an excellent example of how , by work with excellent clinical leadership and excellent manager , we can bring the good of the NHS to the rest of the NHS . the Minister will know that I too want to abolish corridor care at the Queen ' s hospital in Romford . I thank she deeply for meet I on Monday , with the chief executive of the NHS trust for Barking , Havering and Redbridge , Matthew Trainer , who be appeal for a new A & E facility at the Queen ' s hospital . the situation have lead to patient be care for on trolley in corridor . I find that unacceptable , and it be cost my local trust , which service 800 , 000 people in the area , an extra £ 100 , 000 a month because of additional staffing need . will the Minister ensure that what be say at our meeting be carry forward , and that we get a well facility for borough in the east London and Essex area , which the Queen ' s hospital serve ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that this be unacceptable . I be pleased to meet he and his local NHS leader this week . they make , as hon . member always do , an excellent case . clearly , the situation be leave badly under his government . I hope that he will welcome the extra measure in this settlement . I know that my right hon . friend the Leader of the House tell he early that she look forward to he join we in the Division Lobby to support the extra funding . I hope that hon . member know that , whatever party they come from , when I meet they , particularly in surgery , I will follow up on the question that be ask . they be often matter for the local integrate care board , but we will continue to work with all local system to deliver the good care possible for all our constituent . as an NHS physiotherapist , I welcome the statement . the Government will soon launch their 10 - year plan for our NHS , in which a focus will be a move from sickness to prevention . will the Minister set out how the spending review will support Dudley integrate care board and other icb in bring healthcare on to our high street , so that patient care be at the heart of our community ? I thank my hon . friend for the excellent role she play as a clinician . her expertise be really welcome ; we want to hear from a wide variety of expert in this House — that be very valuable . she understand from her professional background , as well as from her constituency , how important it be to look at the entire pathway of care for patient , and to ensure that they have the good possible care as close to home as possible . we think that be well not just for patient , but for clinical outcome , and it be more efficient and well use of taxpayer ' money . the move from hospital to community be front and centre of our 10 - year plan , as be deliver neighbourhood health service . the Minister will be well aware of Sir Andrew Dilnot ' s ambitious plan to put a cap of £ 86 , 000 on the cost of the social care that any family would ever have to pay . it be never go to be easy to implement that . previous government postpone the plan , and the Chancellor effectively scrap it completely . may I appeal to the Minister to work across party line , and to focus on the crippling debt that hit hard - work family when they come to the end of their work life and need the support of the state ? I agree that this issue absolutely need to be resolve . there be agreement previously , under the coalition , and it be so disappointing that it be so unceremoniously dump when I come to this place in 2015 ; that be one of the first thing that the subsequent Tory Government do . it be a great disappointment to many people across the country , particularly those who be responsible for support an old person or a disabled person . we have ensure that we will address this issue , and have appoint Louise Casey to lead the interim report . I know that she will continue to work with everybody , and that all hon . member will take an active interest in that work . I welcome the additional £ 29 billion of day - to - day funding and additional capital announce yesterday . our investment be already pay interest , in the reduction of waiting list . may I remind hon . member of the announcement make early this year ? I be particularly pleased that the Shotley Bridge hospital replacement in Consett be announce in wave 1 , and I thank the Minister for her personal interest in ensure that wave 1 happen . the 10 - year plan will soon be announce . how will the comprehensive spending review announcement help we to shift from a sickness model to a prevention model ? I thank my hon . friend for welcome the Government ' s investment in the health service . she have be such a strong campaigner for Shotley Bridge , and it have be a pleasure to work with she ; I know she have continue to advocate strongly on behalf of her local population . the hospital be need , but as she know , in her community — and all our community — patient should not always be expect to travel to hospital for care that can be deliver close to home . we see massive improvement in virtual care and technology , which be why we have announce a £ 10 billion increase for technology over the spending review period . we be improve the NHS app and ensure that people be enable to do more digitally , but I recognise that do not suit everybody , so we will ensure that parallel process be available for everybody . our constituent deserve and need care close to home , and want more of it . More money for the NHS be of course welcome , although if we in the Green party have our way , it would be raise by tax extreme wealth fairly , rather than by tax work . the small amount of money for social care announce in the spending review be nowhere close to the funding need to tackle the social care crisis , and the burden be put on local authority . in the Minister ' s Department , there be a reduction in the revenue budget for social care and public health . when will her Government stop go slow on social care ? when will they hold the long - promise and much - delay cross - party talk ? when will they recognise , as Lord Darzi have say , that we can not fix the NHS without fix social care ? a truly join - up approach to health and social care be long overdue . the economic of the Green party be even more fantastical than the economic of the Conservatives and Reform ; we all dread to think what thing might be like under that party . we see that in the local council in my city of Bristol , and it be an absolute disaster . if the council could just get on with building council house and social home , it would help more people to live a well life , and would aid prevention . we be get on with tackle social care . that be announce in the spending review , and that be what the Casey review will do . I warmly welcome the large - ever capital investment in our NHS in the spending review yesterday , build on the Chancellor ' s announcement in last year ' s Budget of the money to rebuild RAAC - infest hospital such as Frimley Park hospital , which will benefit my constituent . that be commit to by the previous Conservative Government , but , shockingly , it be never pay for . with the Government stand four - square behind rebuild Frimley Park hospital , do the Minister agree it be time for Frimley Health NHS trust to get on and announce the site for the new hospital ? I thank my hon . friend for his support for the Chancellor ' s statement and our commitment to the NHS . I know he have be work so hard on this issue on behalf of RAAC hospital and Frimley Park hospital since he become a Member of Parliament last year , and we be four - square behind that work get on . it be at the beginning of a very long queue in the new hospital programme . it be one of the thing we inherit — we wish it be a well inheritance , but we be work with what we have . we have put the new hospital programme on a firm financial footing , and Frimley Park be at the beginning of that queue . we be very keen that people get on with it very quickly , because there be very many other people wait behind they . the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) be absolutely right about social care . we have a system in which healthcare be dependent on social care — Lord Darzi say so , and I think even Ministers have say so — yet all funding be go into the NHS , not into social care . we be fundamentally pour the money into a bucket with a hole in the bottom . the Minister pretend the exact opposite of the truth . will she share a more honest assessment with the House ? what go on ? Labour have 14 year to think about it , and here we be with the funding go into the NHS . as the Father of the House , my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , say , the Minister be follow on from the last Conservative Government and pour more and more money into an unreformed NHS with a social care system underneath it that be break , and she be not do anything about it . I have already give a history lesson about some of those 14 year . when the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats be in the coalition together , we have a commitment , a promise and a cross - party agreement ; the Conservatives then get into government by themselves and break it , so we be where we be . we want to invest in social care , which be why we have announce the £ 4 billion . we be see a very interesting alliance go on between our Green and conservative colleague ; they agree on something , as we see in the Lobby last week . I thank the Minister for her statement and the excellent work that this Government be do in bring additional investment in the NHS and bring waiting list down . we have have to make really difficult decision to clear up the mess leave by the previous Government , and I be sure we all agree that we need to protect our charitable adult social care provider . will the Minister facilitate a meeting with myself and Woodlands Quaker Home in my constituency , which provide non - profit residential social care for old people so that they be able to carry on in the good way possible ? my hon . friend make an excellent point about bring down waiting list for his constituent , and we be so pleased to see that that be continue , as we be able to announce this morning . he also make an excellent point about social care provider , which do an amazing job for many of we who have close family member support by they , and it be important that they be support and work . I be not sure whether an answer to his question about a meeting need to be from my Department or from my colleague in the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government , but I will ensure that he have an answer . I welcome the funding announce to repair hospital with RAAC , which will hopefully include Harrogate district hospital in my constituency . it have already receive some money to remove RAAC in one building , which have since be demolish , but it still have a £ 15 million business case wait with the Department of Health and Social Care for the next round of RAAC repair . will the Minister set out a timetable for repair to hospital such as Harrogate ' s and for when we should expect to know if we will receive some of that funding ? we be committed to ensure that those RAAC hospital be sorted and fit for purpose , and I be able to visit Airedale myself recently . we be ask people on the ground to do a really difficult job , keep hospital go and serve patient while remedy the problem of RAAC . I do not have in front of I the exact timescale for the hon . Gentleman ' s hospital , but I encourage it to work very closely with the team at the Department of Health , which I think be work really well . as long as a clear timetable have be put forward , I will ensure that the hon . Gentleman get a response to his question . I thank the Minister for her statement . the NHS be the no . 1 issue for my constituent , and I know that they will welcome the investment in the spending review . my constituency be a rural area , and one thing people often raise with I be ambulance waiting time , which I be pleased to report have improve in every category over the past year . can the Minister explain how the spending review will ensure continue improvement in ambulance waiting time , support my constituent to get emergency care when they need it ? my hon . friend be right to raise the issue of ambulance . we ensure that they be a key part of our urgent and emergency care plan , which be issue the week before last , I think — I can not remember the exact date . we recognise how crucial that issue be , and how much more can be do by ambulance by the roadside . I be privileged to go out with the south western ambulance service recently ; it be so impressive to spend time on the frontline with people who be deal with whatever come at they . we know that they can do more , include remotely . we be very keen to ensure that ambulance do not spend time outside hospital ; that be why we have introduce a 45 - minute turnaround time through the release to rescue scheme , which have work very successfully in many part of the country . we be keen to see that scheme roll out across the country , so that we do not have ambulance queue outside of hospital with people , but put they back on the road where they need to be . we have be here before with government of all different political persuasion . minister come to the Dispatch Box and trumpet what seem like very attractive amount of money for the NHS , but the reality on the ground be that that money just about cover pay rise and inflationary pressure . on care , Buckinghamshire council and no doubt all council be worried that the money be offer up may only just cover thing such as the fair pay agreement . can the Minister confirm from the Dispatch Box that with increase amount of council ' budget rightly be spend on care , they will get fund for thing such as the fair pay agreement separately from core social care spend ? the hon . Gentleman say that we have be here before , and we really have . I be on a primary care trust board under the last Labour Government , so I see at first hand what good government , work with local system , can deliver : the good patient satisfaction in the NHS ' s history , the low waiting list , and the good access to GP and primary care . we have be here before , and that be what we will do again . from the hon . Gentleman ' s question , I do not understand whether he want more spending or less . that be what the conservative party be still not say ; its member stand up and ask for more , like Liberal Democrat Members , but they will not identify the mean of raise that money — in fact , they oppose they . to respond to the specific question that the hon . Gentleman ask , over the come week , my colleague from the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government will obviously be outline in more detail how the spending review will fall out . I welcome this brilliant investment in our NHS , which will also be welcome by my constituent . I know that this Labour Government will ensure that everyone in every part of the country benefit , include woman . last year , I highlight that woman in Norfolk face the long wait in the country for gynaecological care , with hundred wait more than a year for treatment for condition such as endometriosis . can the Minister assure I that as we advance these plan for the NHS , we will ensure that we tackle those waiting list ? far too many woman be pay the price for year of inaction under the Conservatives . my hon . friend have be such a strong and powerful campaigner for woman ' s health since become an MP last year , and she be absolutely right to do that . I be pleased that we have be able to make some progress on condition such as endometriosis . many campaign have be fight by many woman in this House — include you , Madam Deputy Speaker , if I may say so — to highlight the importance of this issue . we see woman ' s health as front and centre . we want to learn from the woman ' s health hub in their different guise and ensure that they be an integral part of neighbourhood health service . I be really sadden that there be no mention of cancer in the Minister ' s statement , so I will give she the opportunity to correct that omission . will this new money for our NHS ensure that all cancer waiting time target be meet by the end of this Parliament , and can the Minister confirm that those target will be include in the 10 - year health plan ? finally , have Ministers have a chance to read my 11 - page letter and accompany submission on what should be in the national cancer plan ? I have a slight " get out of jail free " card , because I think that letter might be with one of my colleague , not with I . obviously , though , I look forward to the summary . the hon . Gentleman make a really important point about cancer . I would have to check , but I do not think I mention lot of disease - specific area , include key manifesto commitment such as dentistry . obviously , cancer be a huge part of waiting list overall . we will get those waiting list down — we be determined to meet that target — and we will issue a cancer plan later in the year . I thank the Minister for support the launch of Sarcoma UK ' s report yesterday . the recommendation in that report be really important for tackle that awful rare cancer . I welcome the ambition in what have be present , but the comparison with what my Edinburgh South West constituent face in Scotland could not be more stark . I have just come from a meeting in which , yet again , I have be try to defend the mental health provision at Scottish Action for Mental Health ' s Redhall walled garden ; in contrast , I hear from the Dispatch Box real ambition to support people with mental health problem . People in Scotland be also jealous of the fall waiting list they see in England , and hope that one day , they will arrive in Scotland . may I ask the Minister to keep on be ambitious , in the hope — because hope be all I have — that some of it will rub off on the Scottish Government ? as Madam Deputy Speaker be feel a little generous , may I also say that Saturday will mark the 200th Oriam parkrun in my constituency ? if we be serious about preventative healthcare activity , parkrun be a great example of how we can improve both our mental health and our physical health . the Minister be welcome to attend , of course . I always shudder a little when I be invite to do any run , jogging , boxing or whatever else people get up to — we all have our own thing we like do . although my hon . friend ' s fabulous city be a great place to be , I will not be able to join in this weekend , but I wish good luck to everybody take part . we all live in hope that the SNP might learn some lesson from what we be do to fix our NHS . we remain willing to work with the SNP , and with anybody who want to serve patient and get a well service for their taxis . if the SNP want to get in touch , it can do so , but the good thing to do be to elect a Labour Government in Scotland , which will hopefully happen soon . my hon . friend make an important point about mental health . we be committed , as we say in our manifesto , to 8 , 500 more people work in mental health , and to ensure that our school and young people have the support they deserve . I thank the Minister for agree to visit North Devon district hospital very shortly , and I look forward to welcome she to my constituency . despite some welcome extra repair under the estate safety fund , that hospital now face many year of make do and mend . what provision have the Government put aside for those year of increase maintenance cost ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . his invitation have be a long - run one , and sometimes his diary have be busy than mine , but I think we finally have a date to go to North Devon , which I be look forward to . it be a challenge system — we have a good debate yesterday in Westminster Hall about many of the problem in Devon , and I know he will review that debate carefully . Devon be one of the system that we be look closely at . it have have deficit funding this year , but we want to eradicate deficit funding from the system , so we be look very closely at how every single system use all of its money . I know that the hon . Gentleman will continue to support the Government in ensure that his local taxpayer get the good service for their money . I welcome the comprehensive spending review and its focus on NHS funding . it will deliver on Labour ' s election promise to get the NHS back on its foot , which will be of so much benefit to my constituent . do the Minister agree that nearly one year on , this Labour Government be really tackle the disastrous Conservative - liberal Democrat reform introduce under the Lansley legislation ? my hon . friend have be such a strong advocate for Watford since he come into this Chamber , and in particular for ensure that that hospital be in the new hospital programme . I look forward to visit his constituency soon , because I know we lose some time . my hon . friend be absolutely right . I do not know if he know this , but other will have hear I say before that one of the terrible consequence of the Lansley reform be that they make I so angry as a manager in the system that I decide to become a Member of Parliament , and here we be today . we have learn from the lack of focus on the frontline and on patient care . that be why we be so clear — whether in the reform we have put forward on elective care and urgent emergency care , or in the plan reform on dentistry and primary care , in the 10 - year plan and on social care — that we have to keep a relentless focus not just on taxpayer ' money , but on patient . the people ' s priority be clear . they want the NHS to do well , but they be clear in their demand that we make it work well for they and make sure that every single pound of taxpayer ' money be work to the good effect . I welcome the Minister ' s statement and this Government ' s commitment to invest in the NHS , but she do not address how that funding will be allocate across the country . my constituency of Blackburn have one of the bad gp to patient ratio , with more than 3 , 200 patient per GP . that be place immense strain on primary care and push patient to an already overstretch hospital that be frequently on red alert . will the Minister ensure that area with such disparity , like Blackburn , receive target support ? will she meet I to address these long - stand imbalance in healthcare provision ? the hon . Gentleman make an excellent point on primary care , which see 90 % of contact with the NHS and be where most people experience the NHS . that be why it be very much in our sight to support that work . as part of our 10 - year plan , we will bring forward the neighbourhood health service to make sure that people can be see more locally . that will be build around use primary and community care to good effect . he make a point about funding formula . we have a long debate about that yesterday in Westminster Hall , and it be an area of huge controversy . he will see over the come week how the funding be allocate . NHS England do issue — if he have not see it , I will make sure that he have access to it — guidance on the funding formula and where the different system be in relation to that . we want to move everybody towards that target , and I be happy to discuss that with he once he have have a look . this Government have make phenomenal progress on the elective care waiting list leave by the last government , but the progress on mental health waiting list have be stubbornly slow , with 1 . 2 million people still wait for treatment . that include 62 , 000 people cover by the West Yorkshire ICB that serve my Calder Valley constituency , which I think be the second - high figure in the country . can my hon . friend please assure I that we will use this settlement to redouble the work we have do on elective waiting list , while also put a real focus on mental health waiting list ? my hon . friend make an excellent point on mental health , which be of great concern to all member . he be right that elective care and mental health be measure in different way , but we be commit to support mental health service with 8 , 500 extra staff . we be make sure in particular that young people in school be support . we know that the situation have be terrible for young people in our country , and we will continue to provide that relentless focus . the Labour Government have commit more money to the NHS , and that have to be welcome . for that reason , I thank the Minister for her statement today . the Chancellor yesterday announce some £ 50 million — this do tie in to health — for Casement Park . however , the Government be clear that that be dependent on funding from the Northern Ireland Executive . do the Minister expect the Northern Ireland Executive to take extra money grant to the Northern Ireland Assembly through Barnett consequential and divert they to a sport stadium ? be the money for the NHS ringfence and protect ? if not , how do I look parent in the eye in my constituency of Strangford , when their child can not receive cutting - edge medical technology because money have to be find for a sport stadium ? the hon . Gentleman be an experienced parliamentarian , and he understand how the funding settlement for the Department of Health and Social Care be allocate through the Barnett formula to Northern Ireland . this investment be so welcome , because my constituent in Cannock Chase have be struggle to access urgent care between their gp and accident and emergency since our hospital ' s minor injury unit be temporarily close in March 2020 . despite the welcome investment in Rawnsley surgery , Chadsmoor medical practice and Red Lion surgery in my constituency , our ICB plan to kibosh any hope of our MIU reopen . do the Minister agree that this Government ' s huge investment in our NHS need to be feel in the part of the country , such as my town and village , that be so badly let down by the Conservatives ? will she meet I to discuss the worrying urgent care reform proposal for Staffordshire ? I thank my hon . friend for welcome the extra support for GP and primary care . I be sure he understand from our urgent and emergency care plan that we have a number of arrangement for make sure that people be see urgently in local community setting . it be for local icb to decide on the good way , within that urgent emergency care plan , for people to be see locally and treat within the available resource . I be happy to meet he , perhaps at an upcoming surgery , to discuss that far . my constituent in Blackpool South will never forgive or forget that the previous Government leave we with the bad health outcome in the country . we have an ICB have to make £ 350 million of cut . the hospital that my son and I be bear in have be leave inadequate and one of the bad in the country . we have dental desert . People can not get access to mental health counsellor or GPs . I welcome the million of pound allocate to Victoria hospital and to health outcome in my constituency by this Government , and we be see waiting list finally come down . do the Minister agree that we need to continue on this path and give deprived area , such as Blackpool , more support to get our waiting list down to an acceptable level ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that his constituent and constituent across this country will not forgive the Conservatives for the state in which they leave the NHS . that be clear from Lord Darzi ' s diagnosis . we have still have no comment from the Conservatives on whether they acknowledge that . we be determined to be about the future , and that be what this settlement and the Chancellor ' s announcement yesterday be about . it be about put that extra funding that we raise last year into service and into a reform system that reach all part of this country . we will tackle health inequality , make sure that people who have not have that access and people who suffer bad health than other be raise up . we must take the good of the NHS to the rest of the NHS . after more than an hour of diligent bobbing , I call Chris Vince . apology for my premature bob early , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank the Minister for her statement today and for her ongoing commitment to the NHS . I welcome the growth in day - to - day spending on the NHS and this Government ' s commitment to bring down NHS waiting time . however , may I gently advocate for Harlow in respect of the future of the UK Health Security Agency ? it have a business case , detail , design and a site ready to go , and the estimate timeframe have consistently be assess as the good value for money and the quick to deliver . I like how my hon . friend say " gently " , because honestly no day go past without he talk about this issue or , indeed , his new hospital . he be right , and he be a fantastic campaigner for the people of Harlow . he have make his point again , and I can not make any further comment today , but he will be hear from the Secretary of State soon on that issue . I thank the Minister for her answer this afternoon . I ask anyone who be leave before the Select Committee statement to do so quickly and quietly . Industrial Strategy Business and Trade Committee Select Committee statement we now come to the Select Committee statement on behalf of the Business and Trade Committee . Liam Byrne will speak for up to 10 minute , during which no intervention may be take . at the conclusion of his statement , I will call member to ask question on the subject of the statement ; these should be brief question , not speech . I emphasise that question should be direct to the Select Committee Chair and not to the relevant Ministers , and that Front Benchers may take part in questioning . I rise to commend to the House the seventh report of our Select Committee and the combined brilliance of Committee member in set out a plan , a blueprint and a framework for scrutiny of the industrial strategy , which be still to come . our report start with a note of optimism , because the truth be that we stand on the cusp of a once - in - a - century transformation of our economy , from which Britain stand to gain enormously . in the next decade alone , the world economy may grow by something like £ 25 trillion , and those prize could be seize by Britain . in the race on which we have embark , we happen to hold many of the card . in a world that be build wall , we in this country be build bridge to new market . in a world that be about to be transform by artificial intelligence , we be a science superpower . in a world that be cry out for energy , we be on the cusp of build green energy abundance . time and again throughout our long history , these isle of wonder have make history by invent the future . even now , we have the future potential in our grasp in a way that we have not have for decade , but this report be a sobering read , because its conclusion be that our performance right now be very different from our potential , and promise be not go to be delivery . unless we remake the state for a new age and renew the partnership between public ambition and private enterprise , we will squander the rich that could lie within our grasp . our Committee have find that we be trap by obstacle of our own making . we have sky - high energy cost that be drive away industry . we have a broken system of procurement that squander £ 350 billion every single year — £ 1 in every £ 6 of our gdp . we have a chronic skill gap that lock out million from the potential job that they could get stick into , and which deny firm the skill that they need to grow . we have block on innovation diffusion that hoard breakthrough with superstar firm . we have a finance system that all too often starve scale - up of capital , and we have a whitehall machine that be over - centralised , risk averse and too complex to drive change at the speed that the modern economy demand . those be not condition of growth ; they be condition of decline , and this country need to rally to fix they fast . we therefore argue in the report that the industrial strategy have to break through the confine on growth . we need an ambition that be as great as the challenge before we , and we argue that that mean mobilise public and private action around the grand challenge — the moonshot that be go to define the next century . we argue that we should maximise domestic demand through a dramatic overhaul of our public procurement system . we need to maximise foreign demand for the thing that we make here through the trade deal that we strike with our ally around the world . we need to rewire the institution of our economy in skill , energy , finance and innovation , and we then need to transform whitehall itself by devolve power where we can , cut red tape and put region back in control of their own destiny . in this report , we set out practical step for how we can achieve every single one of those ambition , and we then set 10 test by which the forthcoming industrial strategy could be well judge . there must be vision , so that we can steer effectively . there must be metric , so that we can judge progress effectively . there should be grand challenge set out by the Government to help galvanise a rally around national purpose and the possibility of the future . there have get to be procurement reform , so that the £ 350 billion that the state spend each year drive domestic demand in new way . there have to be trade alignment to connect our strength with the global marketplace into which we sell . there have to be far well access to scale - up finance , to stop business be lift and shift — largely to the United States . there have to be cheap energy , because we hear overwhelmingly that our energy price be simply uncompetitive . there must be devolve skill fund where mayoral area can prove that they be fit for purpose , to help manage and organise technical education . there need to be much wide diffusion of research in order to spread prosperity . above all , there have to be leadership from the very top , drive by the Prime Minister himself , and there have to be new way in which we cut through the incoherence of regulation that bedevil business today . we propose a bold devolution of power , money and responsibility , particularly to mayoral area where they can prove that they be up to the task . we propose new legislation to put the Industrial Strategy Advisory Council on a statutory footing , with the Prime Minister chairing meeting at least once a quarter . we propose that the Regulatory Innovation Office be expand and move to the Cabinet Office , and that it take on the role of a clearing house to make sure that there be somewhere that business can go in order to highlight ridiculous conflict between rule and regulation that just hold back growth day after day . we also propose hardwire the link between the Industrial Strategy Advisory Council and the new Council of the Nations and Regions . yesterday , we see some progress on a number of our recommendation — our Committee be nothing if not influential with both the Treasury and the Department for Business and Trade . on capital access , the British Business Bank be now set to receive almost £ 3 billion in order to crowd in ten of billion of pound more , and the National Wealth Fund will grow to almost £ 30 billion , but we have to simplify access to that finance for business that need it . on energy , we have confirmation of investment in Sizewell C , offshore wind and small nuclear reactor , but we need low energy cost in the here and now . on skill , there will be an extra £ 1 . 2 billion by 2028 for 65 , 000 more learner , but the skill governance reform that we need be not quite clear enough , and business need those reform pronto . on research and development , £ 22 . 6 billion a year be promise by 2029 , and there be target fund for advanced manufacturing , defence innovation , the Advanced Research and Invention Agency , and the new Edinburgh supercomputer . those be good beginning , but without a clear plan to diffuse the good idea to every corner of our economy , we will not get the uplift in productivity that this country need . there be without doubt big challenge , but what give we heart as we take evidence over the course of this year be that business , trade union and consumer group be up for the challenge . they genuinely believe that we can become the fast - grow economy in the G7 . in 32 conclusion and recommendation , we set out very clearly the step that Ministers could and should take in order to unlock the possibility of the future . my final message be that we should draw a lesson from our history . over the course of the last century and since the day of Joseph Chamberlain , there have be geopolitical shock every 20 to 30 year that have force we to think anew about the sovereign capability that we need , which always lead to conclusion about how we remake the state for new time . we be at exactly such a moment in our history , and yesterday give we some heart that there be investment go into the thing that business need . this Government want to invest in growth , good job and good wage , but the potential of this country will be squander unless we now build on the kind of ambition that we hear yesterday and implement the step that our Committee have set out . above all , I think that our plan be practical , and I have no reservation in commend it to the House . I thank the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee for his hard work . it be really hearten that the report have receive cross - party support on the Committee and across the House . this be about growth and the economy , which affect every single one of our constituent . do he agree that the word " practical " be absolutely right in this case ? the industrial strategy can not simply be a soviet - style tractor production statistic list — it can not be self - congratulatory . our report be practical and provide almost a blueprint , and its implementation be absolutely key . the right hon . Gentleman have do an excellent job of set out the potential that be within our reach . the trick be to make it within our grasp . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . this report be an awful lot strong for the raft of amendment that he bring forward , and for the thought and devotion he put into Committee hearing and the interrogation of our witness . he be absolutely right because , ultimately , we as a country will not unlock performance that match our potential unless we think again about the way in which business and the Government work together for new time . that be the only way in which we will both tackle the stubborn challenge of the past , particularly the under - investment that have bedevil we for so long , and navigate the seminal challenge of the future . there be no ideology in this report — well , perhaps there be , but the only ideology be a confidence in our country and a confidence that we can be well than we be today — which be a practical blueprint for turn those ambition into action . I thank the Chair of the Committee for the opportunity to come in on the topic of this important inquiry , which I be glad to be a part of . one of the good day of the inquiry be the day we welcome a roundtable of small and medium - sized enterprise in the automotive sector to talk to we about the threat pose to they at the time from the tariff impose by the United States and more broadly about the challenge that sme face in advanced manufacturing and automotive . do he agree that , as our report set out , the industrial strategy must be one for sme across all the growth sector , as well as for the large prime and big organisation ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the evidence base we be able to assemble be an awful lot strong because of her connection with small business in her constituency and the insight she be able to bring from the world of labour . the point she make be absolutely right . past industrial strategy have sometimes conjure up image of corporate Britain call the shot , but this country ' s real potential be actually in abundance in small firm . unless we can make sure that on our island it be easy to start a business , easy to scale up a business , easy to hire people and easy to give people a pay rise , we be not go to unlock our full potential , and that be what this report set out to do . we have clearly in our mind the richness and potential of our small firm , and we want our economy to be a big and well place for they . I congratulate the right hon . gentleman on his statement and his Committee ' s report , which be welcome . the summary clearly say : " Britain ' s economic institution and market — especially in public procurement , energy , skill " and , critically , " the diffusion of innovation and finance — must be modernise for new time . " in the spirit of the partnership he speak of between the public sector and private sector , he will no doubt have be glue to the debate on the sustainable Aviation Fuel Bill yesterday , when I point out that most of the Government ' s advanced fuel funding be go on foreign - own technology . how do he think , and do his Committee consider , the way that the approach to Government grant scheme for innovation need to change to ensure that we keep talent and innovation here at home ? the hon . Gentleman make a really important point . we have hear time and again — we hear it in relation to life science , defence and clean energy — that we have some of the good thinker in the world , but they often struggle to get the start - up finance or the scale - up finance they need to turn those ambition into new business . as someone who spend four year build a business before I be in the wrong place at the wrong time and get elect to this House , I know that what small business need to grow be sale . that be why we need to be do a much smart job of marry public contract with access to scale - up finance , but that will take the institution we have today work very differently in the future . perhaps our most shocking evidence session be on the subject of public procurement , when the chief commercial officer of his Majesty ' s Government be just not clear how many job , how much economic growth and what level of wage be drive by £ 1 of gdp . that be simply not good enough . I hope that there be cross - party consensus about these reform because , ultimately , this be a once in 50 year moment . our recommendation should command cross - party support , because that be how we ensure that they be sustainable for the long term . I echo the comment of the hon . member for Dumfries and Galloway ( John Cooper ) about work across the party — this be about growth — and about the Chair drive this forward . the 10 test we have outline be about how the document have a real - world impact . for I , two of the test be clear . first , how do an industrial strategy galvanise action across the Government ? with previous industrial strategy , good as they may well have be , department other than Business do not see it as their responsibility to deliver . we must make sure that the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero , the Department for Transport and so on have ownership too and responsibility for deliver the strategy . I be keen to get my right hon . friend ' s comment on that . secondly , how do this industrial strategy create a positive operating environment so that boardroom in the UK and across the world see the UK as a place to invest and do business ? again , I be keen for his comment on that . I be grateful for that question . again , the report be a lot strong for the insight my hon . Friend be able to bring to what be a very sustained inquiry . we must recognise that two problem have bedevil industrial strategy in this country in the past . one be stop - start — we get some progress , but then we stop , and then we think again . that point be make , with some power , by Greg Clark , whose work I commend and whose evidence I want to highlight . this be about build a different kind of partnership for a different kind of economy . we have tremendous strength : we love the rule of law ; we be politically stable ; we be an open trading economy ; and we be a science superpower . this be a great place to do business , but if we be to become the world ' s favourite place to invest , we must change the way that the Government and the private sector work together . if we get it right , the Industrial Strategy Council could be exactly that place , but the offer our Committee make to the business community be that where thing get stuck , we be here to help . rise — Order . I can run this only until 2 pm , so can question and answer be brief , please ? I thank the Chair for his leadership ; we enjoy be under it . to focus on one thing , energy cost be cause havoc around the country , lead to many company go to the wall . do he think this emergency should be to dealt with by cut energy cost , deal with the distortion between gas and electricity , and give well access to manufacturer so that they can get the power they need ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . perhaps the most critical test of the industrial strategy , when it be publish , will be whether it bring industrial energy cost down . if it fail that test , it be go to struggle to make progress . I thank my right hon . friend for his excellent chairship of the Committee . he speak about the grand challenge we face . we hear in the evidence session how we have such structural challenge — we have just hear about energy , and we could say the same about skill particularly — so could he say a bit more about some of the work be do and the need for a whole - of - Government approach ? that be absolutely right . the challenge we face as a country be so large that no one Department , business or sector can solve they on their own . the only way to crack the code of that challenge and to reach our ambition for the future be by mobilise a whole - of - society approach . otherwise , frankly , we be go to fail and squander the potential in front of we . it seem quite radical to suggest , as the report do , devolve responsibility for post - 16 technical education and training to local leader and transfer responsibility for skill to the Department for Business and Trade . will the right hon . Gentleman briefly expand on that , and explain how it relate to apprenticeship on the one hand and university education on the other ? this be an important area of debate when we be frame our recommendation . we feel that where mayoral area could show ability — that might be a limited number — they might be much well able to understand the need of business and to ensure that local technical college in particular provide the right kind of skill and of qualification . sometimes we take too much of a central planning approach to the skill system , which mean we be just not agile enough for the need of employer today , and skill gap therefore loom much too large . I thank the Chair for the report , particularly for the framing in which it land the industrial strategy . from read the report , I believe there could be great emphasis on the convene role of high education — university — not just as a driver of R & D and skill , but for the industrial cluster in their locality . do he agree that the strategy could be more focused on build on the role of high education as a collaborator and a co - ordinator ? my hon . friend be right . we have to be careful not to stray too far into the territory of our sister Committee , but once upon a time we build village around factory ; in today ' s economy , we need to build local economy around university . the role of university in empower economic change be something we will want to return to in the very near future . final two question and answer — very short , please . I congratulate the Select Committee , the Chair and its member on the publication of the report . which of the 10 test ensure that business growth will be ethical , moral and responsible , and which of the test protect the consumer , the public and the environment ? a very clear answer : leadership from the top — and that mean come from the Prime Minister directly . I thank the Chair and the Committee very much for the report . it be incredibly helpful . the Chair refer to growth for all within the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in the industrial strategy . one of the issue for Northern Ireland company have be buy into the public procurement process . perhaps the Chair could tell we how we in Northern Ireland can catch up with the rest of the United Kingdom . we hear this message loud and clear from Harland and Wolff when we be there : long - term contract , not year - to - year contract , with real stability so that a genuine partnership can grow and grow strong over time . Backbench Business SEND Funding I beg to move , that this House have consider the distribution of SEND funding . I be delighted to have secure this debate , as it give we an opportunity to highlight the situation we be face in England , where child with special educational need and disability be be leave behind due to the inherent regional inequality in the high - need national funding formula . there be a big issue . the more typical thing we talk about be the overall quantum of spending base on overall need , but too little attention be give to the distribution of the funding that exist , whether in healthcare , education , police or otherwise . I know I be not the only Member be turn to by constituent at their wit ' end , try to navigate what feel to be a broken system ; I thank colleague across the House for their continued advocacy on behalf of some of the most vulnerable child in all our community . my argument be a simple yet deeply important one : the current model of SEND funding be not only inconsistent but in too many case profoundly unfair . it fail to account for genuine level of need , the reality face by family , and the systemic pressure that school and local authority be under . unless that change , we will continue to fail child who rely on member to make their case and to get this right . the right hon . Gentleman make a profoundly important point . there be a real and urgent need to reform the SEND system , and that of course include how it be fund . do he welcome the £ 750 million ringfence in yesterday ' s spring statement for exactly that : to transform our SEND system to make it fair for parent , well for young people and more sustainable for the future ? the hon . Gentleman take I to a point far on in my speech , but he be absolutely right . he make the case to the Minister , exactly as I intend to : give that we have a break distribution system and give the severity of its impact on so many child and family , will she ensure that the money in the spending review be , as the hon . Gentleman rightly say , use precisely for that purpose and that we target those who be most leave behind ? at the heart of this debate , I be call on the Government to identify and commit to a clear baseline cost for deliver effective SEND support per pupil . the figure must reflect what it genuinely take , in both urban and rural setting , to support child with complex need across the country . only then can we ensure that no child ' s opportunity be limit by where they live . I want to bring to the attention of the House a stark example that illustrate the postcode lottery in SEND funding : the disparity between the East Riding of Yorkshire , which cover my own constituency of Beverley and Holderness , at the low end of the funding spectrum — we be the lowest fund in the country — and the London borough of Camden , which happen to be the high . Camden , by any standard , be a well - resource inner - city borough with strong proximity to specialist service . it currently receive £ 3 , 564 . 95 of SEND fund for each pupil in its area . meanwhile , in East Riding — a rural area with few nearby service , long travel distance and great challenge in recruitment and retention — per - pupil high - need funding come in at around £ 968 . that be a gap of over £ 2 , 500 for every single child require extra support . in real term , if East Riding ' s funding be match not with Camden but with the second most poorly fund local authority , we would have an extra £ 18 million per year on top of the £ 43 million we receive in the high need block — £ 18 million extra . if we be bring into line with Camden , we would have an extra £ 100 million . some might argue that urban area face different pressure , and of course they do , but let we be clear : the cost of deliver quality SEND provision in rural area be not low . in fact , it be often significantly high . transport cost — colleague across the House will be aware of child who have to be move great distance to access their support — for child with complex need can be astronomical . recruit specialist staff , such as special educational need co - ordinator , to work in isolated school be a constant challenge . when service such as educational psychologist or speech and language therapist be not base locally , school and family face unacceptable delay in access the assessment need to unlock further support . why , then , be rurality not factor into the high - need funding formula ? what that mean in practice be that two child with identical need , live in different part of the country , will receive vastly different level of support . one might have their education , health and care plan review on time , access in - school provision , and benefit from local therapy service . the other might be leave waiting month for assessment , with a school already at break point try to bridge the gap . this disparity will have a long - term detriment to child ' s outcome . this be not a criticism of any local authority — Camden , like all area , face its own pressure and challenge — but the system we have allow such disparity to persist without sufficient recourse or flexibility . these widely vary funding allocation create a two - tiere system in what should be a national commitment . colleague from across the House will be familiar with constituent whose story lie bare the human cost of this imbalance , whether it be parent desperately try to navigate the EHCP system , the lack of suitable school place nearby to cope with the measure require by their EHCP , or school struggle to cope . this be also certainly not a party political point . successive government have sit over fund disparity and struggle with the politic . they have be unprepared to reallocate , perhaps for understandable reason . the people you take money from tend to be much angry than the people you give it to are happy : one marche on Westminster , the other grunt and say , " about time . " it be a truly difficult thing . I have be in this place for 20 year and have struggle to get Ministers to accept reallocation and reapportionment . rather than ask for that demand , which I have so far fail in 20 year of effort to get anybody to implement , I hope to come up with something more practical , if compromise as a result . I commend my right hon . friend on his length of service to this House . my hon . friend , the Opposition Deputy Chief Whip — and indeed my whip — be very welcome . thank very much ; I be grateful for that . we have this issue of how we fix a broken and clearly unfair system . new colleague , and there be many of they in the House , might think , " well , surely people would want to fix it . there be no perfect system and there will always be dispute , but if the Government do a map of need — fundamentally , an assessment of what fair would look like — and then map against that line where everyone be , new member might think , " the Government might be prepare to do something with those who be most overfunded to help compensate the underfunded . " my experience be that they do not and will not , so I will discuss practical way of get change . what typically happen be that despite Ministers ' talk in debate like this one , we end up with the Treasury at a spending occasion like yesterday give 3 % ; if inflation be 2 . 5 % , it give 3 % to everybody . that mean that the cash gap between one authority and another grow , and in a sense the injustice grow with it . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for lead the debate . I be conscious that York be in the bottom third , and that the level of child be diagnose with SEND be rise sharply . do he agree that in order to future - proof the system , we need to look at a more holistic , therapeutic and nurture approach to our education system so that all child benefit ? I look at the situation in Sweden and see how that not only bring down cost , but greatly benefit the child there . the hon . Lady be two thing : she be quite right , and she be tempt I down a path I do not want to go down — I want to focus on the distribution , because it do not get the attention . however , she be absolutely right . labour criticise the performance of the then Conservative Government , but I think fund for SEND actually grow 60 % from 2019 to 2024 . she be right that it be not about who be in government — somehow , we need to find way of cap this demand , which will outstrip any Chancellor , however well intentione . that be an issue . I will turn back to the point on which I be focus , which be distribution . if demand in a system be grow at a scale that no Government can meet , distribution , although ignore , become even more important . if a system be strain and struggle , have grossly unfair distribution that no one seek to or be able to defend — it be not a case of one party or the other claim they be get it right ; they recognise it be unjust — be a major mistake , and we must find way to balance it over time . it be not obvious at the moment that anyone be able to stop this imbalance between supply , which be so small , and demand , which be so big . colleague will have local champion back home who do their good to fight against regional inequality . I take this opportunity to pay tribute to Councillor Victoria Aitken in the East Riding , who be the portfolio holder responsible for SEND , and her role with the f40 group . for any new member present , the f40 group fight on the issue of and focus on the funding formula disparity . it be technical and quite dull , but it be vital for the provision of service to our constituent . in her role with the f40 group , Victoria have be tireless in campaigning to address these issue within the SEND system , but sadly , the work of Victoria and other like she be not enough . I want to share the story of my constituent Ellie and her son Harry , who be nine and a half year old and have ADHD . from the very start of his education — as early as foundation stage — both Ellie and his teacher recognise that Harry need extra support . however , without an EHCP in place , the help he require simply be not available , despite the school do all that it could . last summer , as Harry be prepare to enter year 4 , Ellie contact I in desperation . Harry be still only just begin to read , and be spend his break time play with child much young than himself . Ellie have fight tirelessly to secure an assessment so that he could access one - to - one support , but the process be gruelle , and caseworker be at capacity . Ellie have to give up her job to dedicate herself to the countless hour need to complete form , lodge appeal , chase response and provide support at home . she put her own education on hold and , in her own word , have have to " battle the system " every step of the way . just last week , after year of delay , Harry be finally grant an EHCP . however , the school still do not know when the funding will arrive to put the support , which have now be recognise , in place . Harry will start year 5 this September , several year behind his peer . Ellie describe Harry as a kind and lovely boy who have be fail — not by his school , but by a system that delay , deflect and deny the support that child like Harry need . yet Ellie remain determined to keep fighting , no matter the cost to she or her family , to ensure that Harry get the help he deserve . I congratulate the right hon . gentleman on secure the debate . I declare my usual interest : my wife be a special educational need co - ordinator at a local authority school in our patch , and my daughter have an EHCP and a complex set of disability , so I have absolutely fight this battle myself . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that what he have just describe be a broken system that need reform , and that whatever we see in the White Paper in the autumn , we will hopefully see reform that rely in particular on more training for all teacher across the profession ? I think that be some of what he have just describe . the hon . Gentleman be right . there be a capacity issue , as I say , relate to demand . get people — not just specialist , but the whole system and everyone in it — to have a well understanding be really important . the hon . Gentleman will see that in his constituency , as I do in mine . it be not enough just to have the senco ; it be about get the leadership , the training and the right protocol in place to ensure that the whole system be well able to meet the need of child , and that will then reduce some of the other impact , include cost impact , on the system . in recent week , I have the privilege of visit Inmans primary school in Hedon , where staff speak candidly about the mount pressure create by soar demand for SEND provision — pressure that far exceed the funding currently available . at St Mary ' s school in Beverley , headteacher Laura Wallis express her deep concern at the grow gap between pupil ' need and the resource she have at her disposal , make it ever - more difficult to provide the tailored support every child deserve . I have meet people from about 18 school , both here in Westminster and at home in the constituency , and , more recently , have hear the voice of young people on SEND in Doncaster . at every single meeting , the first question ask be about support , capacity , and young adult ' transition into work . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that to get the funding right , we need to listen to the voice of people with experience — those at the grassroot — to ensure that we understand their idea and solution , and direct funding into the right place ? I have to agree with the hon . Gentleman , who make a powerful point . my appeal to colleague in the Chamber — particularly , perhaps , to new member — be to focus on the distribution . it can be quite hard to get one ' s head around the many issue that be involve — the overall national issue of quantum , service delivery , training and the rest of it — and distribution can easily get leave behind , yet it be vital . I can not say that it bring a great deal of joy or satisfaction to member of Parliament to pursue it , because so many people look blank when it be mention , but distribution be important , and I hope that colleague will want to take on the issue . very quickly , some child thrive academically , while some thrive practically . it be all about find the right place for they , whether as a doctor , a mechanic , a plasterer or a farmer . when it come to check on a child ' s ability , and ensure that they find their place , we must acknowledge that there be not a standard box for all ; it be different for each child . as usual , the hon . Gentleman hit the nail on the head . many across this House will recognise the story of the school I have just mention , because the same thing be play out in constituency across the country . parent be become de facto care co - ordinator ; school be dip into ever - shrink budget to fund specialist provision ; and local authority be catch between legal responsibility and budgetary reality . I be contact by a parent in my constituency who be force to navigate a complex and lengthy tribunal process simply to challenge the decision to place her autistic son in a mainstream school , only to have the hearing cancel at the last moment , and a place at a special school offer . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that education , health and care plan be not a silver bullet , that we should not need complex legal process to ensure that young people can access good early support , that support must meet the young person ' s need , and that the money must follow the child or young person ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right . I be chair the Education Committee when the coalition Government introduce the reform that bring in ehcp as a replacement for statement . I remember think then that lot of good improvement be make — there be very sincere Ministers work hard at it , and they bring in a well system — but the fundamental remain as they be . one of the aim be to get away from an adversarial , legalistic process , in which articulate and typically well - off people be able to use sharp elbow to get their child what they need , but pity the inarticulate single mother unable to engage with the system . what would she get ? the then Government ' s promise be to make that well , but the fundamental remain . if demand be so much big than supply , this be what we will get . with the good will in the world , local authority will end up be defensive and say no as a matter of course , and will give way only when they be force to . be I go on too long , Madam Deputy Speaker ? I could not possibly say . for year , I have fight for a fairer distribution of SEND funding , and for year , I have get nowhere , as successive government — labour and Conservative — have lack the courage to rebalance the system . I hope Labour will not lack that courage again . I do not pretend to have all the answer to this problem , but I know that we must work out what fairness look like and the minimum per - pupil cost require for SEND support , and commit to meet that basic need , if not immediately , then at least over time . this Government need to be prepared to take from those above the baseline and give to those below . would they be prepared to do that ? no previous Government have be , but perhaps this one will . if not , we must find some other way . we could identify , through a mapping exercise , those who have be leave behind , and we could say as a matter of principle that whenever there be an above - inflation increase in the Budget — such as the £ 760 million that the Chancellor come up with in the spending review yesterday — it will always be use first and foremost to lift up those below the line , while do nothing to cause a below - inflation increase for those who be above the line . even if the Minister agree with that idea , there will still be crisis management . how do we begin to tackle systemic inequality ? above all , it be vital that we revisit the high need national funding formula , because it do not sufficiently account for regional cost difference , or for the genuine cost of deliver service in dispersed or under - serve area . the formula must reflect both complexity of need and the geography of the area in which that need arise . it need to account for the add cost of provide service in rural area . it be vital , too , that the formula move away from the historical spend factor — the part of the formula that base current funding on what a local authority spend on SEND provision in the 2018 - 19 financial year , and how it administratively describe that spend . the formula mean that a large section of funding be determine by pre - covid demand for SEND service , despite a post - pandemic spike . the Government have state their intention to remove that factor , but progress have be painfully slow . every year that we fail to act , we condemn another group of child with complex need to struggle without the support that they deserve . the issue be not simply how much money be available ; it be also how accessible and responsive the system be . family be force into adversarial process , school be burden with bureaucracy , and child be too often treat as number on a spreadsheet , rather than individual with potential . we need a system that be focus on early intervention , not crisis management . I be here not simply to raise a problem , but to call for action . that action would ensure a fair , more transparent funding formula that reflect real - world cost across the country , account for rurality and discount historical spend . it would establish a clear baseline per - pupil cost for deliver effective SEND support , and ensure that every local authority be bring up to that level — if not quickly , then at least over time . it would create well accountability mechanism , so that area that be underperform on deliver SEND provision can be support and , where necessary , challenge . at the very least , I ask that the Government recognise the injustice of the system and the inequality that it produce . those be not radical ask ; they be practical , deliverable reform that would make a meaningful difference for my constituent in Beverley and Holderness — and , I believe and hope , across the rest of the country . we have a duty as parliamentarian to ensure that every child , regardless of background , diagnosis , or postcode , have the support that they need to thrive . the disparity in SEND funding undermine that duty . if we believe in a truly inclusive education system , we can not continue to turn a blind eye to the structural inequity build into the funding model . we owe it to our constituent , our school and , most importantly , the child to fix this . rise — I inform member that even with an immediate three - minute time limit , I will still not be able to get everyone in . I thank the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) for secure this important debate . this issue affect family in Huddersfield and across the country . I recently meet SEND parent from Huddersfield to hear their experience of the system . they be try to do the right thing , and to get the right support for their child , but too often the system work against they . they tell I that the system be difficult to navigate , especially the process of gain an EHCP and any subsequent appeal process . I also hear from parent who be struggle to access home - to - education transport , or who be not able to get their child into school due to poor mental health or it be the incorrect educational setting . these story be not one - off . this be happen to too many family across the country , and it be clear that something have to change . I welcome the work of local support service , such as Kirklees Information , Advice and Support Service , which offer free and impartial advice , but it be deal with a grow number of inquiry . in Huddersfield , we see grow demand for specialist support , but the funding be not keep pace with that demand . local service be stretch , school be under pressure , and family be leave to navigate a complex and often frustrating system . last week , I visit the fantastic Southgate school , a specialist school for child with complex special educational need . I spend time with its amazing pupil and teaching staff . the teaching and support staff be passionate about their work , but they speak to I about the increase complexity that they be deal with , and their struggle to access all the emotional and mental health support that they need for their pupil . the transition to post - 16 support be a particular issue . they also ask I to raise the need to look again at the pay scale for support staff , who be value member of the team . the issue of pay be impact retention . as the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness have say , there be a postcode lottery . whether a child get the help that they need often depend on local resource , not their actual need . we need to take into account wide need , deprivation and the complexity of child ' s circumstance . I welcome the Government ' s recent move to improve SEND provision . they include : inject an additional £ 1 billion into service ; invest £ 740 million in adapt classroom and build specialist facility ; and restructure the Department for Education to put SEND at its heart . local authority like Kirklees council need the tool and resource to respond properly to the challenge . without a sustainable funding formula , local authority will struggle to provide timely solution . school want to do the right thing , as do council , but they be often force to make impossible choice , and that leave family to pick up the piece . we need a long - term plan that give certainty to local area and put the voice of parent , carer and child at the heart of decision making . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) for secure this important debate , and for his work on this issue . accord to the late figure , there be around 1 . 7 million school pupil in England with identify special educational need . that equate to 18 % of all pupil . of those pupil with identify SEN , around 1 . 2 million receive SEN support , and around 400 , 000 have ehcp . in Huntingdon , the school that I represent have express many concern about the whole SEND system , and funding consistently underlie many of the issue that they face . school pay the first £ 6 , 000 towards meet the outcome of an education , health and care plan . the rest of the funding be top up by the local authority . often the funding provide do not cover the cost that the school incur in support child with need . I urge the Government to address that as a matter of urgency , as this be stop school from provide help to child suspect of require SEND support . I thank Yasmine Trace , the headteacher of Sawtry infant school , and Jo Dyke , the school ' s SEND co - ordinator , for highlight this matter . I know that they speak on behalf of other school in Huntingdon , and across the country . the unacceptably long wait to obtain an ehcp in Huntingdon — one child at Wheatfields primary school wait 62 week for a draft — have lead many desperate parent to seek to fund they themselves . the cost of a private educational psychologist ' s assessment in Huntingdon vary , depend on the service require and the provider , but it might be in the range of £ 900 for a full assessment , or £ 450 for an assessment of an under - three . for example , a full assessment could be £ 775 with a £ 400 deposit , and one provider offer an assessment for £ 900 with a £ 400 deposit . these figure be a significant barrier for most family that I represent . it be yet another burden for parent , and yet another reason why we need more support on offer . the Government have hint at sweeping change to the EHCP system , and I would welcome further detail and clarity for the many parent , carer and teacher in Huntingdon who be uncertain about what these change will mean . there be a fear among parent that the rug will be pull from under their foot . I would welcome it if the Minister could confirm the ongoing support for ehcp go forward . to conclude , I want all child to get the education , care and support that they need . there be a grow number of child with SEND , and we must adapt to ensure that they be cater for and do not fall by the wayside . I would welcome plan from the Government on how they will support school in meet the cost of ehcp — or of whatever they be replace with . I wish to hear that parent will be support throughout the process , and that the Government will not force parent down expensive route , which most of they can not afford , to ensure that their child get the education and support that they need . I thank the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) . as it have for many member , this issue have become a quiet emergency in my constituency ; Hertfordshire face many of the challenge with the funding and delivery of SEND provision that other part of the country be grapple with . SEND support should be a lifeline that enable a child to reach their potential , regardless of their diagnosis or circumstance . in Hertfordshire , the system be creak . Ofsted and the Care Quality Commission have say that there be " widespread and systematic failing " , and too many family be lose out as a result . I have raise a number of story in the past of constituent who be deal with this issue . today I bring to the House the story of my constituent Sarah , who recently tell I about her daughter Grace . grace suffer from avoidant restrictive food intake disorder , alongside autism and dyslexia . after a long and traumatic journey through the NHS , make hard by the lack of a national care pathway for ARFID , Grace spend six week at Watford general hospital and a further nine week at a mental health unit in Great Ormond Street . her condition have thankfully stabilise , but her recovery remain fragile . now her mother Sarah be face the daunting challenge of secure an appropriate education . she be apply for an EHCP and have request a place in a specialist setting that would meet Grace ' s need , but like many school it be oversubscribed . a mainstream environment , crowded and overwhelming , would simply be unworkable for Grace , whose previous experience in school have leave long - last trauma . Sarah be even consider move country in search of suitable provision . this be not an isolated case . family in Hertfordshire be tell we time and again that the system be fail the child who sit in these so - call grey area — child who require more than mainstream education can offer but who do not meet the threshold for the few specialist placement available . Hertfordshire be rank 148th out of 150 local authority in per - head high - need funding . just 7 . 5 % of our local education budget go to SEND , well below the national average of 11 . 5 % . we be also face a project £ 30 million deficit in the SEND budget this year . I finish by thank Ministers for their engagement on this issue , and for meet I and other Hertfordshire Labour mps . I know that the hon . member for Harpenden and Berkhamsted ( Victoria Collins ) and for South West Hertfordshire ( Mr Mohindra ) have also be diligently raise these issue . I be glad that the Government be now look at the national funding formula and how it might be revise , which I hope will mean that Hertfordshire end up with more support . I congratulate the Government on their pledge to invest an additional £ 1 billion into high - need funding , and I look forward to see how this benefit all our child . Hampshire be a county that fall into the f40 group , which be area that receive some of the low per - pupil funding in the country . this disparity be hit pupil with special educational need and disability the hard . the cumulative deficit in Hampshire for the dedicated school grant now sit at £ 86 . 1 million . that be not just a number on a spreadsheet but a daily reality in school across my constituency . despite have to find the first £ 6 , 000 of funding for every EHCP , school in North East Hampshire , as with elsewhere , be bend over backwards to do everything they can to support these pupil . a headteacher in my constituency recently explain to I that their budget this year be so tight , and they have make every efficiency that they can , that they will be force to reduce the amount of support for the child who do not have an EHCP but who do have additional need . what be the sense in that , when we know that early intervention lead to well outcome and low cost ? before be elect to the House , I run a charity for young people with down ' s syndrome and their family . we see at first hand the impact that early intervention can make in build the fundamental skill for life that many of we take for grant — walk , talk and participate in society . child with down ' s syndrome will always need an ehcp , yet the family still have to go through a laborious process . many child need a bit of extra help at various point without an EHCP , yet the funding formula also work against they because school can not afford to fund the support . as Lily ' s mum explain after Lily be deny an EHCP , " the emotional and financial toll be huge , make bad by constant pushback and denial . there ' s endless talk of SEND reform , but what about the child like Lily who need help now ? every delay be another failed day , risk long - term harm . " I welcome the investment in education and training outline by the Chancellor in yesterday ' s spending review , but it be not just school ' wall that be crumble ; the system within the building need just as much care , investment and resource . one headteacher say to I : " of course teacher want to be pay fairly , but that ' s not why so many be leave the profession . we want well funding for the school , for the kid . " I conclude not with the number but with a quote from Olivia ' s mum , a constituent of mine . Olivia be in her 16th month without appropriate educational provision . her mum say : " I be increasingly fearful for her future . how can she be expect to participate fully in society — to reach her potential , to build independence , to thrive — if she be deny even the most basic right to an education ? " the national funding formula must be reassess and make fit for the future . over the past decade we have see a 140 % increase in the number of child identify as require an education , health and care plan . today we have nearly 2 million pupil in England who be identify as have special educational need . unfortunately , the rise in demand have not be match by a corresponding increase in funding . as of October last year , the Department for Education project a cumulative deficit of £ 4 . 6 billion in the dedicated school grant by the end of 2025 - 26 , alongside a £ 3 . 4 billion gap by 2027 - 28 between high - need cost and current funding level . our child have for too long be let down by previous government , and we have have 14 year of conservative austerity . we must urgently re - examine the structure and long - term sustainability of our SEND provision . in my constituency , the pressure be all too evident . nearly 9 , 000 pupil be currently receive either special educational need support or have an EHCP — around 18 % of the total pupil population . if we look at the datum more closely , a stark pattern emerge . there be a clear correlation between the level of special educational need and the index of multiple deprivation , which mean that child in our most deprived area be significantly more likely to require additional support than their peer live in more affluent neighbourhood . this be not just a matter of education but a matter of social justice . we must invest in early year intervention and deliver a holistic programme of support . Wolverhampton West be home to five state - fund special school : Tettenhall Wood school , Broadmeadow special school , Penn Fields school , Penn Hall school — close to where I live — and Pine Green Academy . I be proud of all of they , as they have dedicate staff and specialist educate over 650 pupil . however , even with the tireless effort of our dedicated school staff , our state special school be under strain and operate beyond capacity . I be proud that this Government have put forward £ 740 million for 10 , 000 new SEND place , and spend review document reveal that the Government will spend £ 547 million in 2026 - 27 and £ 213 million in 2027 - 28 . perhaps my question could go through the hon . member to the Minister if he do not know the answer . the £ 740 million be very welcome , but as he say it be frontloade in one year and then halve the follow year , with no indication of where it be go thereafter . although it may be a welcome short - term intervention , how be it part of a sustainable effort to improve SEN ? my point be that we have not have sufficient funding to provide our special educational need child with the support they require . the National Audit Office have warn that without significant change , the current system be financially unsustainable . the evidence be damn . since 2019 , we have see no consistent improvement in outcome for child with SEND . we must , therefore , take bold , decisive step to reform our SEND system to ensure that every child , irrespective of their need or background , receive the proper support they rightly deserve . only then can we say that we have remove the barrier to opportunity . before I start my speech , I acknowledge the awful tragedy in India . I be aware of my own constituent be directly affect by it , so my thought and prayer be with they at this difficult time . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) on secure this important debate . I have speak many time about education in this place , include about my own experience . as a former governor of a school for autistic pupil , I have always be passionate about ensure that our child and young one can fulfil their full potential . early this week , I be lucky enough to visit one of my SEND school , Breakspeare school in Abbot ' s Langley , which be absolutely life - change not just for the child that it support and educate , but for the family and the wide network associate with those young , brilliant individual . I have two other such school in my constituency , Colnbrook school and Garston Manor school , but I want to focus my comment on Breakspeare . breakspeare hope to move to a different site in Croxley in my constituency . there have be a change of administration at Hertfordshire county council , but I know from the plan of the previous conservative administration that funding would have be put in place for that new school , because the current one do not have the capacity to meet the demand associate with it , not just in South West Hertfordshire but in the wide area . the school support predominantly Hertfordshire child , but also those from Buckinghamshire and London . I be grateful that two fellow Hertfordshire mps from across party — the hon . member for Hemel Hempstead ( David Taylor ) and for Harpenden and Berkhamsted ( Victoria Collins ) — be in their place , acknowledge that SEND remain an apolitical but very important issue for all our resident . today , I urge the county council to do all it can to ensure that that school break ground as soon as possible . the current location be not fit for purpose , not just because it be an old building that be not build for SEND provision , but because the significant demand for such provision in Hertfordshire mean that it will quickly be out of date and not able to accommodate sufficient student number . I hope that the Minister will provide not just additional support , but — go back to my right hon . friend ' s early suggestion — fair funding for those area that really need it . there be a perception that Hertfordshire be an affluent county , but as someone who have not always be base there , I know it be still a significant concern for my resident that across Hertfordshire , we do not receive the average provision that other county benefit from . if the Minister be willing and able to speak to Treasury colleague , I be sure she would get cross - party support in her long - overdue fight to right this wrong . we all want to ensure that child in our community do well and fulfil their potential . decision on SEND funding in this Parliament directly affect the availability of resource for additional support need education in Scotland . one of the good experience of my career be work with the pupil , parent and teacher at the Royal Blind school in Edinburgh when I be at the charity Sight Scotland . there we create a happy and supportive environment to help blind and partially sight pupil to reach their goal in education , and to gain the vital life skill they need to manage their visual impairment throughout their life . such support should be available in every school — in every mainstream setting — but it simply be not . that be because the presumption of mainstreame policy in Scotland have not be anything like adequately resource . in February of this year , Audit Scotland conclude that the Scottish Government and council must " fundamentally evaluate how education be fund , staff and assess to support all pupil " , include those with additional support need , " to reach their full potential . " the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) — we very much welcome his securing the debate — have mention the disparity in funding between local authority . that be an issue in Scotland as well . repeat poor funding settlement from Ministers for our council have result in a number of local authority cut additional support need budget again and again . the impact on pupil , parent and local charity have be dramatic and , frankly , intolerable . the number of pupil who need such support have go up by 32 % since 2019 , but the number of specialist teacher have increase by just 2 % . Sight Scotland and RNIB Scotland have report fall number of specialist teacher for visual impairment . the National Deaf Children ' s Society in Scotland report a 40 % decrease in the number of specialist teacher for the deaf . the brilliant charity Autism Rocks , which be base in Buckhaven in my constituency but support family throughout Scotland , tell I that in one school , the number of support staff have be cut from nine to four . I have see the huge difference that specialist educational support can make for disabled young people . specialist teacher give pupil the time and skill they need to have a level playing field in the curriculum . the brilliant Stepping up programme run by Enable , another charity that I have work with , help pupil to manage that difficult transition from school to further education or work . because of the action of this Government , we be finally see increase in funding for SEND , and therefore in Scotland for additional support need , but for two decade SNP Ministers have preside over a crisis in additional support need provision in Scotland . it be child , family and staff who be suffer as a result — a sorry decline in a scottish education system of which we be so proud for so long . that be why we urgently need a new direction in Scotland ' s school to ensure that all our child have the support that they need — that be their right — to achieve their full potential . I commend the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) for set the scene for we all incredibly well . I be go to give a presbyterian sermon ; for those who do not know what that be , it come in three part . first , some child thrive academically and other practically . some brain think in one way and other in different way . we need all of they for a function society . we need mechanic as well as doctor ; we need plasterer as much as farmer . it take all sort , and we need to train child not to fit into a standard box , but to find the box that fit they . that be become increasingly difficult for teacher to manage when the range of child be so wide and the pressure be so extensive . I hope the hon . Gentleman agree that under the current model , family must first endure an unnecessarily prolong , complex and emotionally drain diagnostic process before resource finally begin to trickle in . that be a reactive approach , which not only delay the sense of support but undermine the principle of educational equality and inclusion . do he agree that we must recalibrate the system so that diagnostic service be prioritise , adequately fund and make accessible locally for every family in need ? the Minister be listen , and I be sure she will respond positively to the hon . Lady when the time come . SEN be not about write off a child ' s ability , but about ensure that they find their place in the system in order to achieve their potential . the second part of my presbyterian sermon be about the stat for Northern Ireland . I know they be not the Minister ' s responsibility , but I will give some figure and talk about a solution that I hope might be helpful . in Northern Ireland , SEN cost £ 65 million a year , but that figure be about 14 % less than what be need this year . the number of child with special educational need have rise since 2017 from some 18 , 000 to some 27 , 000 . in the same period , the number of child enrol in special school increase by some 25 % . funding be not meet need , and we must look at other way of do that . the Department of Education in Northern Ireland be look at unit attach to mainstream school , which provide a good - of - both - world approach . I hope that that solution can be of some help . the Department be look at how well that can enable child to be a part of mainstream and well equip to move forward . the unit provide additional specialist facility on a mainstream school site for pupil with an EHC plan . they focus on specific need such as speech , language , communication or autism . the class be small , and there be more teacher to help each student . the teacher be train to work with pupil in the designate area of need , the classroom be adapt to suit pupil ' need and the pupil spend a minimum of 50 % and a maximum of 100 % of their teaching and learn time in the unit , join mainstream peer ' class when appropriate . that be one of the solution that Northern Ireland Education Ministers and education authority have come up with to try to address the issue when funding be low . I be conscious of time , so I conclude by say that perhaps that unit approach be the way forward . I hope that there will be buy - in from staff throughout the United Kingdom . the goal be a UK - wide education system that be fit for all and accessible for all need . the pressure be great , but so too be the reward in teaching , and we need to find a way to get the great reward for our teacher , classroom assistant and all who be involve in school life . that can only come with appropriate Government support , which I know the Minister be always ready and willing to give . for far too long , family across my county of Staffordshire , and indeed across the country , have be fail by the very system that be mean to support they . the breadth and depth of the crisis in SEND provision be such that this have to be one of the most , if not the most , frequently debate topic since the general election . since become an MP , I have speak with dozen of parent who be force to travel long distance , often across county border , just to get their child the support to which they be legally entitle . recently , my team help a family who have be wait nine month to get into the school of their choice ; other have be wait for year . I have hear story of poor communication , of document be illegible to parent , who feel like outsider navigate a system design to exclude they , and of family have to repeat their story multiple time due to layer and layer of decision making . my constituency of Ribble Valley sit under Lancashire county council , which recently receive a damn ofsted report for its SEND provision . one parent , Selina Shaw , tell I that her son Monty lose two year of education while the council spend more than £ 146 , 000 on a school he never attend , as the council do not seem to understand that that school could not meet his need . do my hon . friend agree that the Government and local authority must listen seriously to the voice of the child and to parent to improve SEND provision and must stop waste precious resource in the immediate term , as well as provide the long - term financial improvement that the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) propose ? I be sorry to hear about Monty ' s story and I fear that we will hear story like his from member across the House in this debate . it be a perfect , but shocking , example of how the system be so broken that we be waste huge amount of resource . money be leak out of a system that be already inadequately fund . my hon . friend be right to highlight that . it be awful that we be in such a situation . child , particularly those with high need , be have to wake up before dawn and travel for over an hour , find themselves exhausted when they reach school . that be not choice ; that be a scandal . it be not just the child with the most acute need who be suffer ; many child and young people could thrive with target , mid - level support if only it be available . the number of child with education , health and care plan have explode since 2015 , in reflection of a genuine increase in need and great recognition of mental health issue and neurodivergence . yet funding have not keep pace , result in a deficit of around £ 33 billion in high need budget within local authority . I welcome the Government ' s acknowledgment that the current SEND system be not fit for purpose and the recent commitment of £ 740 million to deliver 10 , 000 new SEND place , particularly in mainstream school where specialist unit can offer much - need support close to home . follow yesterday ' s spending review , I look forward to the school White Paper that will come out in the autumn , with detail of the Government ' s approach to reform the SEND system . we must ensure that the money go where it be truly need . I share the frustration of the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) , as Staffordshire be also chronically disadvantage by the outdated funding formula , with specialist school in my constituency receive £ 8 , 000 per pupil less not than Camden but than the national average . a fair , need - base funding system must reflect the actual cost of specialist provision , not assumption or average . that be partly about the specification of need and the quantification of how we meet it . government can be helpful in that . I first take an interest in the matter as a county councillor more than 30 year ago and then as a shadow Schools Minister more recently — some 20 year ago . the Government can provide support through guidance . Guidance can get right the specification of need , and some of the problem that the hon . Gentleman have describe can be address . I thank the right hon . gentleman for bring his expertise and long experience to the debate . I be sure that that message have be hear by the Minister on the Front Bench and that she will look into it . we must recognise that every child ' s need be different . reform must deliver on three major front : early intervention , so child get support before problem escalate and not after they have already struggle for year ; inclusive school , with proper funding for specialist unit and train staff in every community , not just in a lucky few ; and fair access to transport , because no child should be deny education due to postcode lottery or long , exhaust journey . before I conclude , I want to take a moment to highlight the number of young people with SEND who go into employment later in life . in Staffordshire , only 2 . 1 % of adult with learn difficulty be in pay employment in 2019 - 20 , compare with an average of 5 . 4 % for all english region . I be proud to support the Government ' s investment for child with additional need , but family in Cannock Chase now need to see change on the ground : to see parent and child listen to , not dismiss , and to see they respect , not exhausted . we can not build the fair , more inclusive country that we all want to see while SEND family be leave fight for support . I thank the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) for bring forward the debate , and I appreciate his speech . I also appreciate the interest of everybody in the Chamber in this matter . that stem from our experience on the doorstep , where we have meet far too many parent go through hell . we see a mix of determination , frustration , helplessness and betrayal . they look at I and at each hon . member and say , " what be you go to do about it ? " we be not do enough , and their comment motivate each of we to be here today to do what we can . primary school in my constituency — just deal with the As , we have Alvescot , Aston and Appleton — do not have the space and the provision to provide for their child and the SEND need that be go through the roof . in the secondary school , it be the same story . we have no high need provision in the constituency , which mean that lot of child be be taxi God know where , far too far away , on a daily basis , which be terrible for the kid and terrible for the whole system for obvious reason , economic and otherwise . we be desperately try to find route through that and to find solution . in Oxfordshire , we be head for a £ 100 - million high need block accumulate deficit this year , which be obviously completely unsustainable . that be just one county , and I be sure that it be repeat across all our county . to quote the chair of the County Councils Network , we be " nine month away from a financial cliff edge when these multi - billion deficit be place onto council ' budget book , potentially render half of England ' s county and unitary council insolvent overnight . " Oxfordshire county council ask for three thing , and I think many of we will agree with they . the statutory override , which will run out in nine month ' time , need to be extend . frankly , extend it for one year make little sense ; let we have some perspective and length on this . we need a write - down or a write - off of the high need block deficit across local authority . we need to have some borrowing potential for local authority . that need to be explore , so that they have flexibility to settle any remain deficit over an affordable period . I will speak about the deepening funding crisis , and the crisis in general , for child and young people with special educational need and disability , include the failure of our national curriculum to meet the need of all learner . since the curriculum reform introduce in 2012 , we have see a return to a rigid , academic model of education — one that might have suit a mid - century grammar school but fail to deliver for a modern comprehensive system . the curriculum be simply inaccessible for at least a third of our pupil , both those with SEND and many other who thrive with practical , creative or vocational learning . too many child be be tell , implicitly or explicitly , that their job be to , " just get a pass and forget about it . " that be not a curriculum that inspire or include , it be not a curriculum that recognise or nurture diverse talent , and it be certainly not a curriculum fit for the 21st century . it also ignore the cost of adequately educate child with special educational need . this narrow focus do more than limit opportunity ; it damage self - esteem , confidence and emotional wellbeing . it restrict the gift and potential of our young people , particularly those who already face the great barrier . critically , school have lose the flexibility they once have to tailor education to the need of their pupil . they be now judge on a narrow set of outcome , force a one - size - fit - all model on to a hugely diverse student body — again , a cut - price way to deliver our education system . that have consequence . we can draw a direct line from the rigidity of the curriculum to the crisis in school attendance , and from there to the rise in neet — those not in education , employment or training — who be vulnerable to exploitation or even to enter the youth justice system as they be exploit by organised crime . too many young people with SEND be be fail by a system that offer they no real route to thrive , and when school stop be a protective factor , the risk grow . that situation be be make bad by how SEND funding be distribute . local authority be under incredible pressure , with funding that simply do not reflect the grow complexity and volume of need . we see huge disparity between area , and often between school within the same local authority , where child miss out on vital support not because their need be different , but because of postcode lottery in funding . fair and adequate funding be a matter of educational justice . if we be serious about inclusion , we can not continue to under - resource the very system mean to deliver it . we urgently need to reimagine our education system not as a funnel toward academic exam alone , but as a foundation for every child ' s success in every form it might take . I hope the Minister will listen to the parent , carer , teacher and young people themselves call for change . SEND provision in our school be in a state of deep and grow crisis . in my area , West Sussex county council be already struggle with a £ 130 million SEND deficit this year — a figure likely to rise to £ 224 million by next year . that huge figure be one of the bad in the country , but what be truly concern be that so much overspend have not even buy we a satisfactory service . complaint from parent and school have fill my postbag ever since the election . only half of ehcp nationally be issue within the legal 20 - week timeframe . in West Sussex it be even bad : just 12 % now meet the deadline — and that be after a big push to get the waiting list down . it be hard to believe that slow processing be not a tactic . an EHCP give parent the right to access educational support , but that support do not actually exist , so the local authority ' s solution be to create deliberate bottleneck in the system so that many family will never get all the way through . that be particularly unfair at the nursery level , because educational psychologist assessment can take so long that the child be all the way through school before they get one . More and more family be force to go to appeal — tribunal appeal be up 53 % in one year — but the fact that council lose almost all those case tell we that thing should never have get that far in the first place . in effect , that discriminate heavily against parent who , for whatever reason , be less able to fight their case all the way through the system . I have meet many parent with SEN child and the emotional cost be enormous . sometimes I feel like I myself need counselling afterwards . parent have to watch their child drift away from mainstream schooling when early intervention might have save they . family be break up under the strain . one couple tell I that a third of marriage do not survive the experience . of course , the pressure on staff be no less severe . our teacher — particularly senco — be exhausted , unsupported and leave the profession . one Horsham SENCO tell I : " we be seasoned professional , but we be at break point . " mainstream school face manifest injustice . one school tell I about a child who be refuse by a specialist school because their need be say to be too great . what happen ? the child be allocate to an ordinary mainstream primary without any specialist support . I realise that the demand on the Government ' s budget be endless , but I hope that the current review will lead to swift action . any further delay mean we risk lose all the educational progress that teacher have work so hard to deliver over the past 10 year . I congratulate the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) on secure the debate . it be clear that the special educational need and disability system be overstretch , underfunded and increasingly out of step with the reality face by child , parent and school . I will share with colleague two local example from Bolton West that illustrate the strife that the current system have cause parent . one mother , Jo , write to I after I visit her child ' s school in Lostock . her child be both bright , engaged , full of potential and autistic , but they be all too often exclude from the very activity design to inspire they . when the school organise a high - profile enrichment trip to London , her eld be not choose . it be not the fault of the school , which be operate under challenge financial constraint ; rather , it be a symptom of a system that fail to see autistic child as leader or participant in national life . after all , as Jo remind I , representation be not just about be present , but about be expect . another mother , Victoria , write to I distraught about the possibility that education , health and care plan may soon be restrict to child in specialist setting . her 10 - year - old son , who have complex need , be in mainstream education . he can not learn without tailored support . his EHCP be not a luxury ; it be a lifeline . without it , he would not be in school ; without it , he would not be learn . in Bolton alone , more than 9 , 000 young people have identify SEND need , and over 20 % of they rely on ehcp , so I welcome the £ 1 billion increase to SEND and alternative provision that be announce for 2025 - 26 in the autumn statement last year . I commend the Chancellor for her announcement in yesterday ' s spend review of another £ 547 million in 2026 - 27 and £ 213 million in 2027 - 28 to reform the special educational need and disability system , to make it more inclusive and to improve outcome ahead of publish a school White Paper in the autumn . however , can the Minister reassure my constituent and I that , whatever happen with ehcp , parent and teacher will be closely consult to ensure the good outcome be secure for child across my constituency and up and down the country ? I be very concerned about the potential knock - on effect of any reform for teach assistant . from visit school , I know how vital their role be in ensure child can maximise the time they have to learn in classroom , whether it be at Ladybridge primary , the Gates in Westhoughton or Beaumont Primary , to name but a few . I know from speak to a local head just this morning that the current situation simply can not go on . she tell I that headteacher be have to go cap in hand outside the school to seek alternative funding and that she have never find it so tough in seven year of be a head . we owe it to all our child to give they the ability to realise their ambition , so I hope the Minister can address my concern and those of my constituent . I congratulate the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) on secure this important debate . give the limited time that have be allocate , I will speak about the state of SEND in my area and then suggest how the Government can address some of these challenge . the Dewsbury and Batley constituency sit in the authority of Kirklees , which rank very low in term of funding per child in the high - need block of the dedicated school grant . accord to recent report , Kirklees be the second worst fund council for high - need funding per capita . kirklee have nearly 9 , 600 disabled child and young people between the age of nought and 24 . since 2016 , there have be a real - term spend cut of £ 717 , 000 on service for disabled child in Kirklees . give the lack of funding , it be not surprising that in June 2022 a joint SEND inspection by Ofsted and the Care Quality Commission report two priority area of action , which , as far as I be aware , be still unresolved . without the necessary funding , it be extremely difficult , if not impossible , for the council to address these challenge . in Kirklees , one in eight ehcp be process within the 20 - week legal timescale , compare with the national average of 50 % , make it one of the bad rate nationally . Kirklees be part of the Department for Education ' s safety valve programme , which help local authority with their SEND deficit , but that may pressure council to limit ehcp , add barrier for family seek essential support for their child . I completely agree that the Government ' s plan for major SEND reform be necessary and overdue . however , current rumour and medium leak have alarm many family . the disabled Children ' s Partnership , which represent 130 - plus charity , royal college and parent group and support early intervention , have warn that reform must not disrupt current placement or support arrangement ; they must not remove ehcp for child with complex or unmet need ; they must not abolish the SEND tribunal , which be a vital legal safeguard ; they must not remove support after the age of 18 before young people be ready ; and they must not redefine SEND in way that narrow eligibility . I thank the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) for bring this important issue to the Chamber for a full and thorough discussion . I want to highlight a few issue in Suffolk Coastal . I recently have quite a large conversation with many parent in my constituency . nearly 100 parent fill in my survey and tell I the extent of the issue they be face as a consequence of battle with special educational need provision . some 60 % of those who fill in the survey tell I that they have have to withhold their child from school for up to a year because their child could not access education in a setting that be right for they . nearly a quarter of those child have be off school for over a year . it will not surprise anyone in this Chamber or any parent listen to the debate that many family be struggle with the mental health consequence of this crisis . one in two parent tell I that they be battle with mental health issue as a consequence of their battle with SEND provision . in many conversation that I have have across my constituency with school , parent and young student , we have also explore some of the recommendation that could be bring forward , and I have speak at length about that in the past . we have a dual badge in Suffolk : we be a member of f40 and also an area that be be let down regard SEND . our county council be effectively in special measure . that be the truth that dare not speak its name . it be often the most disadvantaged or poorly educate parent who struggle to navigate a complex system . middle - class parent be at an advantage — let we face fact — but that be never really recognise , and it need to be . those people need support and guidance to navigate the system , and to get the education that their child rightly deserve . I could not agree more with the right hon . Gentleman , which be why I and so many member be passionate about this issue . those who can not articulate or fight for themselves need people to stand up and fight for they . in many discussion I have have , I have work with my constituent and with school to come up with six key recommendation that we think will be innovative . we know there be a funding issue , and I welcome the Government ' s investment and commitment to that . however , we need to relook at how we deliver special educational need . education , care and health plan be just one part of the problem , but fix those will not fix the situation that parent be face . a school in Saxmundham close down last summer , because of the decline population in that area , two year after more than £ 1 million be spend on its SEND unit . it be a great facility whose footprint could facilitate primary and secondary education . I have be urge the Government to look at that — I have write to the Minister , and I will continue to urge the Government to look at that provision and take it forward . we need a national conversation about SEND and about funding . I welcome member from across the House talk about the need to bring the voice of parent and young student to that national conversation . we must hear from they why it be fail , and how adversarial the system have become . statistic publish today by the Government show that there be more than 482 , 000 child with ECHPs but 1 . 284 million child without ECHPs who require SEND support . although the £ 750 million be welcome , do the hon . Member agree that it be a drop in the ocean and that the Government need to invest more ? perhaps the hon . Member will agree with what I be about to say , which be that , yes , funding be part of the issue , but we need to look at the entire system to solve it at the scale that be need . in rural area — the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness speak about this at the beginning of the debate — the issue be different to those in urban area . there be decline population in many of my primary school . one primary school have just 15 student and spare classroom , because the population do not match the capacity . we have capacity within those school . I have put forward a recommendation , which have be support in principle by my county council , that where we have decline population in rural area , we could operate with a special educational need unit alongside mainstream provision , act separately but within the same infrastructure . that SEND unit could bid for separate funding , and have a separate , wide catchment area than the primary school . what be incredibly exciting about that idea be that the provision do not need to stop in year 6 . we know that small , cute primary school with tiny population have a huge challenge with student move from year 6 into huge class size in secondary school in year 7 . if we be to go ahead with the proposal , there be no reason why the SEND unit in a primary school could not hold student in year 7 and 8 , enable a much more gradual transition to a secondary school setting . that be something I have be push passionately . I have write a report about it , which I publish in my constituency . I be have load of conversation with my school , and I will continue to have a conversation with the Government . I welcome everyone ' s contribution today . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) for secure this important debate . it be a pleasure to speak on a matter so close to the heart of parent , carer , teacher and pupil in Bognor Regis , Littlehampton and across West Sussex : the urgent need for equitable and sustainable funding for special educational need and disability . since 2015 , the number of ehcp in West Sussex have rise dramatically , from 3 , 362 to 7 , 684 in 2024 , an increase of 128 % . that surge mirror an England - wide trend , where the number of ehcp have grow by over 70 % since 2018 . that equate to about 180 , 000 additional high - need pupil . local mainstream school , like Bishop Tufnell and Edward Bryant , report be stretch to capacity . they rely on fundraise from charity merely to maintain basic SEN provision , while increase staff shortage and rise national insurance cost exacerbate burnout . nationally , high - need spending have rise to roughly £ 11 billion , but with pupil number grow fast than funding , per pupil support have actually fall by a third in real term . the Government have recognise that pressure . a capital investment of £ 740 million aim to support the creation of 10 , 000 additional SEND place , include in specialist unit in mainstream school , and a furth £ 1 billion be be allocate to support 44 , 500 mainstream school placement by 2028 under the high - need national funding formula . however , even with that funding , expert warn of a tick time bomb , as council , include West Sussex , face soar deficit that could reach £ 5 billion by 2026 . until 2018 - 19 , the council be in a surplus , but since then , the exponential rise in need have put immense pressure on the system . I have ask the Leader of the House to facilitate a debate on a sustainable model for SEND funding that ensure that local authority like West Sussex receive adequate per - head resource ; that deliver timely funding adjustment as EHCP number grow ; and that support retention of specialist staff and inclusive practice in mainstream setting . I urge the House to commit to sustainable and future - proof funding . as many right hon . and hon . member have outline , there be no doubt that there be a crisis in our SEND system in this country — a crisis that we inherit from the previous Government . however , funding be still too low to keep pace with the rate at which child be be diagnose with SEND , and many family and teacher be struggle to get the help that child desperately need and deserve . unfortunately , family in my constituency of South Dorset experience the same . accord to figure set out early this year , 18 % of pupil in South Dorset receive SEND support , roughly 5 % more than the national average . that be why I want to increase the number of SEND place in special school setting . we have three state - fund special school locally , Harbour school , Westfield college and Wyvern academy , whose staff do a truly brilliant job deliver specialised and individualised support for every child . however , follow conversation with mum and dad at the school gate and teacher in the classroom , I be all too aware that , put simply , there be more SEND pupil across South Dorset , primarily base in mainstream school , than there be special SEND place in special school setting . in 2023 , the Department for Education say that demand for special school place nationally outstrip available place by at least 4 , 000 , so do my hon . friend agree that we need more special school place ? I completely agree with my hon . friend , and we really feel that in South Dorset . there be simply not the place need to support every child with SEND . we urgently need the Government to move far , fast , to ensure that every child with SEND get the education , and the school setting , that they deserve . I once again ask Ministers at the Department for Education to get the SEND school at the Osprey Quay site on Portland open — we wait for year for that to happen under the previous Government — and to finally rebuild the building at Dorset Studio school . if we can get those two project over the line , we can really start to deal with the crisis in South Dorset . funding for a new SEND school be promise for so many year ; that be what be most frustrating for parent in my constituency , particularly those live on Portland . in 2019 , 2020 , 2021 , 2022 , 2023 and 2024 , they be promise a solution that do not come , and once again we be wait . parent on Portland need that school on the Osprey Quay site open as soon as possible . every child , no matter their educational need , should have the opportunity to do their good , but they can do that only in the right school , with the right support . I know that this Labour Government recognise that reality , which be why I look forward to hear from the Department for Education on the future of those two school in my constituency , and to hear a little more from the Minister at the end of this debate . school in my constituency be among the lowest - fund in the country , and there be a lack of resource for early intervention work before child get to the point of need SEND support or an EHCP , which mean that more child will need a high level of intervention later . it be a vicious circle . the lack of money to act early mean that more money must be transfer from the school block to the high - need block , reduce still far the funding for early intervention . South Gloucestershire be one of the local authority that enter into a safety - valve agreement with the previous Government . it face a cliff edge when that agreement end next April , and as yet there be no certainty about what come next . a great deal of work have be do by the council and school work in SEND cluster , but the deficit have continue to increase . the agreement be sign pre - covid — we all know about the impact that the pandemic have on demand for additional support — and as a result the target in the agreement be completely unachievable . safety - valve agreement have not work . will the Government write off those historical deficit and find a new fairer funding formula ? I support the Government ' s focus on inclusion , early intervention and preventive support to make that possible for more child . however , we need to recognise that there be child and young people already in the system who do not get that support , and school need the funding to support they now . one of the reason for the historical deficit in south Gloucestershire be the lack of specialist place locally , which have result in high number of expensive out - of - area placement . those be bad for child , who would be well off be educate in their local community , so that they do not face excessive travel or need a residential place , and they be bad for the school budget . the hon . Member make a really important point about early intervention . the current funding model respond only to high - level need and ehcp , which lead to an over - reliance on costly ehcp and new special school place . do she agree that we should look to allocate a ringfenced proportion of the high - need funding to early intervention in mainstream school ? that be one approach , but we need to ensure that it do not take away from the high - need approach . the point be that we have to fund both early intervention and the high - level need that have result from the lack of early intervention . the previous Government decline to fund an additional 200 special school placement when they sign the safety - valve agreement . when I meet the Minister for School Standards , she do so too , say that the focus be on provide place in the mainstream . increase inclusion be a sound ongoing policy , but pupil can not make the switch overnight . we need a fairer distribution of capital funding as well as revenue funding . another issue with SEND funding be the notional £ 6 , 000 . to give one example , a headteacher locally tell I that more than 60 % of their allocation go on the high number of child with ehcp they have on roll , leave less than 40 % to support all the other child on the record of need . school funding do not recognise that there can be great disparity between community and school , even in the same local authority area . some acquire a reputation for be good at support those with additional need and suffer financial consequence , and some community in an authority have great need than other . the formula for distribute SEND funding and more general school funding do not reflect that , and it mean that school in different part of the country with similar cohort be treat very differently . this be clearly a national crisis . cornwall rank 144th out of 151 local authority for per - pupil SEND funding , and child with SEND need in Cornwall get almost half the funding of those in Middlesbrough . do my hon . friend agree that this gross funding unfairness should be urgently address ? absolutely . South Gloucestershire be in an even bad position , and I be sure all the authority in the f40 group would agree . yesterday , I raise with the Prime Minister one of the impact that lack of support for SEND have on family . he do not take up my request for a meeting , but I hope he will consider meet I to discuss this aspect of the issue , and meet charity that represent parent who be in this situation . of course , the lack of support for child with special educational need have many other impact ; I simply do not have time to go into all of they today . we need overall SEND funding to reflect the level of need . we need more funding during the transition to great inclusion , to reflect the fact that we will be support people with a high level of need , as well as fund early intervention . we need a national body for SEND to end the postcode lottery , and to fund the very high - need case that cost over £ 25 , 000 a year , and school need funding to be distribute in a way that reflect their need , not some overall and potentially flawed perception by their local authority . I congratulate the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) on secure this debate . this be an issue close to my heart . I use to be a school governor as well as a college governor , and I remember set up — along with other teacher and professional — a specific learn unit , as well as a general learn difficulty unit . of course , have be a constituency MP for the past 15 year , this be an issue that I have deal with many a time , and when I have be try to assist family , I have notice that they feel utterly exhausted , not only by their caring responsibility , but by a system that seem to place obstacle in their way . my council , Bolton , have make real progress . its " belong in Bolton " strategy be help to create more local SEND place , and it be rightly praise in its most recent Ofsted and Care Quality Commission inspection . in the area cover by Salford city council , part of which now come into my constituency — it now cover Walkden — the council have also be work really hard to improve provision for child with SEND , but of course , all these council have limit resource . in Bolton alone , over 9 , 000 child have a SEND issue , an increase of 27 % since 2015 . one headteacher in my constituency recently tell I that their school spend £ 333 , 000 a year on teach assistant to support child with special need , but it receive only £ 155 , 000 in education , health and care plan funding . that leave a gap of £ 178 , 000 every single year , around 7 % of the school ' s total budget , which they have to find somewhere . that be before we factor in the cost of behaviour support , speech and language therapy , or educational psychologist . we need a proper plan that would increase the outdated £ 6 , 000 top - up threshold ; invest in local authority team to ensure that EHC plan be issue on time , give family the certainty they need ; and target capital funding at where demand be great , include in Bolton South and Walkden , to make sure that child can get support close to home . child in Bolton South and Walkden need support , and that must not be like win a lottery . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I congratulate the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) on secure this vital debate . I would like to start with the word of berkhamsted student Hermione : " I believe , without a doubt , that the school system need to change . but more than anything , it need to change for SEN student — because right now , it be fail they … the system break I down completely . instead of support I , the system leave I feel isolated and overwhelmed . " last week , I meet Hermione at Egerton - Rothesay school in Berkhamsted . she have complex need , and have find solace in her new school after year of struggle . that be why , for her english oral exam , she be compel to write a piece call " the school system need to change : especially for SEN student " . she happen to send it to her headmaster on the day I visit . it be an eloquent piece about her experience , and I wish I have time to share it in its entirety . she conclude by say : " I know I ' m lucky to have the support I do , but it ' s still not enough . the system need to change — not just for I , but for all the student still be let down , and for the future of education itself . " she call for improved teacher training , for a more flexible curriculum and assessment , for school to listen to SEND student and for properly fund and staff support . I would like to tell Hermione that Parliament be listen , and this debate will dive into why that proper funding be so vital and how it can be improve . the Government must heed the call of parent and child to tackle this issue head on . the Public Accounts Committee report in January that despite the 58 % increase in the Department for Education ' s high need fund over the past decade , it have not keep pace with demand . the current funding model , which see top - up funding for student require more than £ 6 , 000 a year of additional SEND support , have not be update , even give the change in real - term value . that be crippling local school and authority , with 38 unitary and county authority have rack up debt exceed £ 2 billion this year alone . that have result in high - need spending be consistently high than available funding by between £ 200 million and £ 800 million a year between 2018 and 2022 . Hertfordshire be give the bad rating for SEND provision under the previous Conservative Administration . the funding formula under the Conservatives mean that child in Hertfordshire have be burden with the third - low per capita funding for high need funding and far less than just next door in Buckinghamshire . a three - year - old in Hertfordshire with SEND need would have to finish all their formal education before they would get equal funding to a similar child in Buckinghamshire . the new Government must stop this postcode lottery , as eloquently put forward by the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) , and ensure that those previously leave behind get the support they need . Kyle ' s family in Markyate tell I that the system treat they not as kid with hope and dream , but as just another name on a piece of paper . Jess in Tring make the difficult decision to remove their six - year - old from school to home - educate and tell I that see their five - year - old struggling be " heartbreaking " . those be not isolate case ; they reflect the story across constituency up and down the country , the real consequence of underfunding and the postcode lottery of unfair distribution . the Liberal Democrats have a clear plan to fix this break system . we call on the government : to establish a national SEND body to end this postcode lottery and to fully fund cost above £ 25 , 000 per annum , ensure that child with complex need receive the tailored support they require ; to increase funding for local authority to reduce the financial burden on school after the Conservatives leave local council underfunde ; to extend the profit cap from child ' s social care to SEND ; to provide cash towards the cost of ehcp to tackle the disincentive create this adversarial system ; and , to reform that break national funding formula . this crisis can not go on . every child , no matter their need , deserve the opportunity to succeed with the right support in place . the Government must urgently clarify their reform plan . SEND family deserve certainty , not to be drip - feed information about their child ' s future . as Hermione say : " to anyone who think , ' the system work fine as it be ' — fine for who ? if it doesn ' t work for all , then it doesn ' t truly work . " I call the shadow Minister . it be a pleasure to follow such excellent contribution from member from all part of the House in this important debate . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) on secure this vital debate . I pay tribute to the parent , the carer , the school and all those who have battle tirelessly to secure funding for SEND student . I be one of those SEND student who benefit from my parent tirelessly campaign for I to have the disability support I need in school . it have only take I this long to finally say thank you . such support play a vital role in child ' s long - term success . member from all part of the House have raise this issue today because they can see the merit in fighting for child ' s chance , particularly in primary school , to increase their success overall . we know that find the right provision can be difficult and bureaucratic for child with SEND and their family . secure the right assessment of a child ' s need , get their education , health and care plan , and find the right provision take huge effort and far too long . many parent who have come to I have be absolutely choke and suffocate by the system . too often , child with SEND face a postcode lottery , with suitable provision too far from their home or , in the bad case , no suitable provision at all . accord to the 2024 datum , we now have 1 . 67 million child who have be identify as have SEND — 18 . 4 % of all school pupil . we know that the number have grow significantly over the last few year , which be why the Conservatives open 108 new specialist school , commit to a further 92 and deliver over 60 , 000 new special need school place . the growth in child with SEND be why get the distribution of funding correct really do matter . we know that not enough of the funding be reach school and the child who need it the most . we know that as the number of child with SEND have increase , the deficit from the high - need block have become financially unsustainable , as many member have allude to today . that be why we must confront the challenge face local government when the statutory override end in March 2026 , and we would like to hear what assurance the Minister can give on how council can address the deficit . as I expect , my hon . friend be make a powerful and compelling case . will she also ask the Minister to address the issue of special need not be static ? many need be dynamic — child change when their need change — and that dynamism need to be build into the system so that flexible funding can follow need . I thank my right hon . friend for make that excellent point . many member have raise this issue , and perhaps we can have another debate in Government time on how SEND funding can follow the student , rather than just have it allocate . the need of a SEND student will change over time , which be why parent often change educational provider . child may go into independent school setting and then come back to state setting , and parent be constantly battle the system . it be worth look at whether we can have a model in which the funding follow the student . many parent have come to I , and I be sure to other member , to ask for vat not to be charge on independent school fee , because over 100 , 000 pupil with SEND who be be support in that educational setting now have to go back into the state sector , which can not cope with rise cost and the number of student enter the system . I ask the Government to urgently look at that and to u - turn on the policy of charge vat on school fee , because SEND child be fall through the crack as a result . for SEND student in primary school , it be very important that they have educational support through teacher . primary school teacher be some of the most important teacher . they change my life and help I cope with my disability , and I would not be here today if I have not have they . the Government claim that they would recruit 6 , 500 more teacher , but we have now hear that they will not do so . the truth be that there be now 400 few teacher than there be a year ago . promise have be make , but this promise seem to have be break . however , it be even bad than that . when it come to SEND , primary school play a vital role , but this Government have have to quietly drop primary school teacher from their promise to recruit 6 , 500 teacher , and I honestly want to know why that be . primary school be where child with hidden SEND will first present . if there be early intervention , the journey to provide they with the right support be much easy . have that support yield high level of return , but if it be not put in place in time , we see high level of exclusion and ultimately see child disengage from education and learning . do the hon . Member agree that the problem begin even early ? nursery receive no dedicated SEND funding , which mean that essential early intervention be provide by school and the funding be overstretch . that be neither sustainable nor fair for the child or for the school try to support they . the hon . Member make a wonderful point about the fact that early intervention be underfunde , but such funding actually reap huge benefit for student . I should declare that I work at the Centre for Social Justice , where we look at early intervention as one of the most important way of turn around the life of child . especially for child with special educational need , early diagnosis and early intervention can make all the difference in their not fall behind when they enter main education . it be rare that I support additional funding , but I do for early intervention because it be life - change . the year during which we can change a child ' s life be those from four to seven . it be such a small window during which we can erase trauma and help with any disability , but that will help they for the rest of their life , so early intervention make all the difference for such child in the long term . I ask the Government to listen : to listen to the child , family and school tell they that SEND funding be not make it to the child who need it ; to listen to the local authority that need clarity urgently on the future of high - need block and the statutory override ; to listen to the parent of child at independent school who be be rip from setting that work for they because of an Education Secretary who will not listen to the evidence that those school be the right place for those student at this time ; and to listen to the primary school that be now short of teacher , but be try to provide SEND support for these child at the most vital stage of their education . it be time for the Government to listen and to make the change our child with SEND so desperately need . I congratulate the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) on secure this debate on this important subject . I know he have a strong interest in special educational need and disability , and I commend he for his 20 year of advocate for change . he speak widely about many area , but especially about distribution . I also thank the many member across this Chamber for their passionate and sincere speech , which all advocate for their constituent and the child they care about . among the many member who have speak , my hon . friend the Member for Huddersfield ( Harpreet Uppal ) talk about the difficulty for parent navigate SEND . the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) speak about the challenge involve ehcp . my hon . friend the Member for Hemel Hempstead ( David Taylor ) give some case study , and like other Members mention these precious child and their experience , which be all very vital and pertinent to this debate . I thank they for those case study about Grace , Olivia , Hermione and other , which I really appreciate and acknowledge . my hon . friend the Member for Wolverhampton West ( Warinder Juss ) speak about the Government invest in early year , and that be absolutely what we be do . I will seek to address as many as possible of the issue and challenge that have be raise and bring to my attention , but I again thank my hon . friend the Member for South Dorset ( Lloyd Hatton ) for his strong advocacy for SEN provision in his area , which have be note . however , I will push back against the hon . member for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) , who raise many issue to be address . I gently say to she that , give the past 14 year , we do not need to be in this position with SEND — we do not need to be here — and this Government have be leave to fix the foundation . we do have a plan for change , and I will mention as many of the area as I can . the Government be commit to break down barrier to opportunity and give every child the good start in life . that mean ensure that all child and young people receive the right support to succeed in their education and to lead happy , healthy and productive adult life . will the Minister give way ? I would like to make some progress before I begin to give way . member from across the House will be aware of the challenge face the SEND system — a system that be difficult for parent , carer and young people to navigate , and where outcome for child be often poor . that have be mention by many member . the Education Committee have undertake its own inquiry aim at solve the SEND crisis , which underscore the significant challenge we face . improve the SEND system be a priority for this Government . we want all child to receive the right support to succeed in their education , and to lead happy , healthy and productive adult life . the hon . member for Harpenden and Berkhamsted ( Victoria Collins ) quote Hermione , who say that SEND need to work for all , and I just want to acknowledge that . I be grateful to the Minister for give way . she will be aware that the title of this debate , despite what it say on the screen , be " distribution of SEND Funding " . I hope , therefore , that she will focus primarily on that particular technical point . the distribution of SEND fund across the country be , accord to f40 and campaigner across the House , unfair , break and need to change . be that the Government ' s view and the Minister ' s view ? that be the first answer , and then we can turn to how it can well be fix . the most important thing be to recognise whether it be break or not . I feel it be unfair and broken , and I would like to hear the Minister say so , if she agree . I hear the right hon . Gentleman ' s point , but he do need to allow I time to proceed . it would be wrong of I not to also respond to other member from across the Chamber who have mention concern with regard to the reason we be here . member across the House will be aware of the challenge face the SEND system . improve the SEND system be a priority for this Government . as I say , we want all child to receive the right support . we be prioritise early intervention and inclusive provision in mainstream setting . we know that early intervention prevent unmet need from escalate , and that it support all child and young people to achieve their goal alongside their peer . these be complex issue that need a consider approach to deliver sustainable change , and we have already begin that work . we launch new training resource to support early year educator to meet emerge need , and announce 1 , 000 far fund training place for early year special educational need co - ordinator in the 2025 - 26 financial year , which will be target at setting in the most disadvantaged area . we have extend the partnership for inclusion of neurodiversity in school programme to support an additional 1 , 200 mainstream primary school to well meet the need of neurodiverse child in the financial year 2025 - 26 . that investment build on the success of the programme , which be deliver to over 1 , 650 primary school last year . we have already establish an expert advisory group for inclusion to improve the mainstream educational outcome and experience of those with SEND . all that work form part of the Government ' s opportunity mission , which will break down the unfair link between background and opportunity . we will continue to work with the sector as essential and value partner to deliver our share mission and to respect parent ' trust . as my hon . friend the Member for Cannock Chase ( Josh Newbury ) mention , parent need to be respect , not exhausted . the Department be provide an increase of £ 1 billion for the high need budget in England in the 2025 - 26 financial year . total high need funding for child and young people with complex SEND be over £ 12 billion for the year 2025 - 26 . return to the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness , of that total , East Riding of Yorkshire council be be allocate over £ 42 million through the high need fund block of the dedicated school grant — an increase of £ 3 . 5 million on 2024 - 25 . the high need block be calculate use the high need national funding formula . the NFF allocation be a 9 . 1 % increase per head for the two to 18 - year - old population on the equivalent 2024 - 25 NFF allocation . I will turn to the many issue raise by other member . we know that family face issue with education , health and care plan , and that even after fight to secure the entitlement , support be not always deliver quickly enough . EHC plan should be issue within 20 week and be quality assure for a combination of statutory requirement , local authority framework and good practice guideline , but the late publication datum show that just half of new EHC plan be issue within the time limit in 2023 . where a local authority do not meet its duty on timeliness and quality of plan , we can take action that prioritise child ' s need and support local area to bring about rapid improvement . this government believe that a complex legal process should not be necessary to access good , early support for child and young people , which be why we need to focus on address the overall systemic issue to make SEND support easy to access . we be continue to develop the way in which we protect support for the child who will always need specialist placement and make access that support less bureaucratic and adversarial . do the Minister acknowledge that early support must be give to child when they be at nursery ? if we identify those need at that point , we could save money in the long run . the Government be very much committed to early intervention and prevention work . it be strongly suggest the other day that the Government be go to look at change ehcp and possibly even scrap they completely . can the Minister give some reassurance to the House , and to constituent who may be watch this debate , that ehcp will remain extant and will be work on ? as far as I be aware , EHC plan will continue . we know that child ' s early year make the big difference to their life chance . as I have already say , we believe in early intervention and recognise the importance of high - quality early year education and care , which can lead to well outcome for child . have access to a formal childcare setting allow child ' s need to be identify at the early opportunity , so that the appropriate support and intervention can be put in place to allow child with SEND to thrive . arrangement be in place to support child with SEND to access Government funding in early education , include funding for disability access and special educational need inclusion and the high need NFF allocation to support local authority . we be review early year SEND funding arrangement to assess how suitable the current arrangement be for support the need of child with SEND . the additional funding for school of more than £ 4 billion a year over the next three year announce in the spending review will provide an above real - term per - pupil increase in the core school budget , take per - pupil funding to its high ever level and enable we to transform the SEND system . we will improve support for child , stop parent have to fight for support and protect the support that be currently in place . detail of the Government ' s intend approach to SEND reform will be set out in the school White Paper in the autumn . the Government will also set out further detail on support local authority as we transition to a reform system as part of the upcoming local authority funding reform consultation . the point be make early about rural area . my county of Lincolnshire have a sparsely distribute population , which make travel and access difficult for parent of child with special need . will the Minister address that in the new funding formula to ensure that rural area do not lose out ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question . as I have already say , the Government intend to set out our SEND reform in the school White Paper in the autumn . I will make sure that a further response be also provide to the right hon . gentleman on that point . the investment in the spending review be a critical step forward in our mission to support all child and young people to achieve and thrive , and to support teacher and leader to deliver high and rise standard across every school for every pupil . on travel , which have be raise by many member across the Chamber , local authority must arrange free travel for child of compulsory school age who attend their near school and can not walk there because of the distance , their SEND or a mobility problem , or because the route be not safe . there be additional right to free travel for low - income household to help they exercise school choice . where a child have an EHCP , the school name in the plan will usually be consider their near to home for school travel purpose . we know how challenging home - to - school travel be for local authority at the moment . that be due in large part to the pressure in the SEND system itself . Central Government funding for home - to - school travel be provide through the local government finance settlement , administer by the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government . the final settlement for 2025 - 26 make available over £ 69 billion for local government , which be a 6 . 8 % cash - term increase in council ' core spending power for 2024 - 25 . we have commit to improve inclusivity and expertise in mainstream school , so that more child can attend a local school with their peer . this will mean that few child will need to travel long distance to a school that can meet their need , which will reduce pressure on home - to - school travel over time , mean that we will be well able to meet the need of those who still need to rely on it . Madam Deputy Speaker , I be sure you want I to draw to a close . I reiterate that the Government be urgently look at reform the SEND system , so that it well serve child and young people and their family . we have note all the contribution that have be make this afternoon . this will take time , but we be work at pace and will be set out our plan to do that in the White Paper in the autumn . member can rest assure that our approach be root in partnership , and that all our work will be guide by what child , their family , expert , leader and frontline professional tell we . we can transform the outcome of young people with SEND only if we listen and work together on solution . I call Graham Stuart to wind up . I thank all colleague for come to the Chamber on this Thursday afternoon , because this issue be just so important . we have hear really interesting and reflective speech from right across the House , as member have seek to champion the child who probably most need help in our society , so it be right that we should be here . I thank the Minister for her response . I be slightly disappointed , because the title of this debate be " distribution of SEND Funding " , and it be important to ask whether the distribution be right . do the Government think that it be , or that it be not ? I do not think that the system be defensible as it be , and it would be good to hear that say . once one have recognise that the system be break and unfair , the next question be : how shall we fix it ? we do not get an answer to that , because we do not get an answer to the first question . the Minister ' s response morph into what we talk about generally , which be SEN overall , what the Government be do , the £ 1 billion extra and all the other thing , many of which be welcome , but the question underneath that be whether the distribution be right . if it be not , be we go to do something about it , while make these other change ? we do not get an answer to that . my appeal to the Minister — I think colleague across the House will welcome this ; I might even get a nod from some on the Government Benches — be to make sure that , in the White Paper , there be an opportunity to make the distribution fair , if not immediately , then at least over time . we must recognise the problem and look to level up over time . that be not to penalise those who might be technically overfunde today , but to make sure that every child have a fair and well chance of get whatever we can well provide from the system . that be an important element of the overall discussion about SEND . we will doubtless hear more about this topic . the Minister do not seem absolutely clear whether ehcp be here to stay . resist my own stricture on stick to the subject of distribution , I will use the few second that I have leave to talk about the EHCP system . when a child get an EHCP , they get a well outcome . perhaps that be drive parent to push their child to get one , and that may be contribute to the financial unsustainability of the system that we have today . it would be enormously controversial to look to remove it . at the moment we have a system that from 2019 to 2024 be increase by 60 % . the Government be put in another £ 1 billion , and another £ 760 million be announce yesterday , and that be welcome , but if we do not find a way of stabilise the system , we will still have those who be sharp - elbowed get something for their kid and those who be not lose out . that be not a system that anyone across the House should be satisfied with . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the distribution of SEND funding . covid : Fifth Anniversary I bet to move , that this House have consider the fifth anniversary of the covid - 19 pandemic . I start by thank the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) and the Backbench Business Committee for grant my request for this debate . I also thank all hon . member who support my application . I approach the Committee because it be important that we mark the fifth anniversary of the pandemic . it be an extraordinary time in our life and for the nation . in some way it feel like a dream . five year on , it seem hard to believe that we actually go through such a period of disruption . the impact have be huge and long - last , even if we do not acknowledge that on a day - to - day basis . I should say that I do not intend to talk about , and neither do I hope this debate become about , the origin of the pandemic , the way it be handle , personal protective equipment , the then Government , or any of the inquiry or legality . there will be plenty of time for those discussion , and no doubt this House will have plenty of opportunity to talk about those thing in future . I want this debate to be about people and community . we lose a lot of people to covid , and the impact on those who lose love one be significant . it cut across community , age and faith . Most of we will have have covid . all of we will know someone who have be affect . many of we will know people who die and will understand the impact of the grief and loss combine with the shock of a pandemic . there be funeral unattended and people who have to die alone . as the current Prime Minister say at the time , " People be frighten by the strangeness , anxious about what will happen next . and we have to remember that every number be a family shake to its foundation . " it be not just those we lose whom we must remember . the country keep go through the incredible hard work and bravery of our frontline workforce , but it also carry on because of school , community group , place of worship , volunteer and people just be good neighbour . without they , we could not have keep go . I know from experience in my community that the work of volunteer be vital . they put their community first , above and beyond their own need , as do our frontline worker , from those in the NHS and care home to bin man , social worker , the emergency service and transport worker , to name just a few . there be a danger as we get into the politic and the legality that we will forget the many worker on whom we quietly rely , or that we will allow their contribution to be underappreciated . they deserve to be recognise and for their effort to be applaud . during the lockdown I be a member of the Newham council cabinet , with responsibility for much of the public realm , include waste and recycling . I remember the poster attach to the wheelie bin thank the bin man for their work and for come out during the lockdown to clear rubbish . in normal time we perhaps do not think about the people who collect our bin , other than to curse a little if it be an early morning collection or mildly panic on realise that it be bin day and the bin have not be put out . in this time of stress , the role they play be emblematic of so many of our key worker , and it be great to see resident share their appreciation . across Newham , over 650 resident volunteer their time with the council ' s # HelpNewham initiative to support the borough ' s most vulnerable . there be also more than 500 covid champion , who help to distribute information and advice to their community during the pandemic to keep people inform . those be the people who make such a difference and provide vital support to the local council at a time when it be stretch by deliver vital service in a borough with a high number of vulnerable people and a high rate of infection and casualty . we often talk about the number , but it be important that we understand the sheer scale of the impact that the pandemic have on our community . my borough lose more than 1 , 000 people to covid . it be one of the worst - hit place in the country , and at the beginning of the pandemic it be the worst - affect place in the UK . it be extremely easy to lose sight of the impact when we talk about the number , and the large the number , the great the danger that it become a statistic and the individual behind it be lose . behind those number be real people , real story and real life , and we must never forget that . that be back up with story of compassion and kindness from family , friend and NHS doctor and nurse . it be vital we find way for their name and face to be remember , and for their family to gain comfort from that memory . the inspiration for this debate come from my staff during a visit to Plaistow Park . it be there that Newham have create its permanent memorial to covid . in the middle of the crisis , I be certain that we would need to find a way to mark it for local people . it be clear from the scale of the pandemic and the life lose that there would be national and regional memorial . indeed , Newham host the London blossom garden , a memorial for London , in the olympic park , which be in the constituency of my neighbour and hon . friend the Member for Stratford and Bow ( Uma Kumaran ) . the national memorial wall have also offer much to many people . give the impact on Newham , however , we need something dedicated to our local people . a monolithic memorial feel wrong . this be not a war memorial ; it need to be something that reflect the nature of the people who be impact . it need to be a memorial for all — young or old , single or with a family , religious or not . it have to be a space for everyone . what be design be a memorial garden in one of our park , create with the help of our park team , landscape architect and local artist Matt Ponting . importantly , it be create in consultation and discussion with local people , and design to work for all in our community . it be a landscaped area in a previously little - use part of Plaistow Park in my constituency , in the centre of our borough , with tree and flower , seating and its own path and work of art , in which people can sit quietly , pray , reflect or enjoy it with other . on the day of its opening in 2023 , more than 100 local people turn out , include one local resident who have lose his father . still grieve the loss , his appreciation for have a place that he could visit , and that mean that his father and those who die have not be forget , be something that strike I and that I remember vividly . all politician hope that they will have a legacy , and we all have idea of what we might like to achieve . I do when I start as a councillor , and I even realise some of they . but if I have to leave just one thing behind I , I think it would be that garden . sadly , there be no database of memorial , and no online guide to what have be put in place , but we will all know of something that have be do to recognise the impact of covid . we need to create some form of guide or register so we can ensure that such memorial be not lose for the future . we know that good work have be do . research the background to this debate , I come across some wonderful example , such as memorial garden in Telford , Oldham and Enfield , memorial woodland in Wokingham and Hornchurch , and a memorial mosaic in Barrow . I hope we will hear more example from hon . member this afternoon . these space be vital , not just for now , but for the generation that come after we . we can not allow the legacy of the pandemic to be the preserve of documentary , textbook and history lesson . it should be a legacy root in our community , celebrate the sacrifice and contribution that be make and remember those who be no long with we — not as the statistic they be record by , but by the life they live . this year be the 85th anniversary of the beginning of the blitz , which start in my constituency . it be in the east end of London that the phrase " blitz spirit " , which we still use , emerge — a spirit of stand firm and work together as a community . we see in 2020 how strongly that still exist and , when the chip be down , the strength of our community . perhaps we should now be talk about pandemic spirit , and talk with pride about how that spirit shine through across our community . today , I hope that we can contribute to that spirit in this House . I hope the debate will provide comfort for those who be remember love one . I hope it help to ensure that all who go out to work to keep thing go in those difficult day get their recognition . I hope it help to shine a light on the army of volunteer who step up and help when it be need most . rise — order . colleague can see how many member wish to contribute . there will be a speak limit of three minute . I thank the hon . member for West Ham and Beckton ( James Asser ) for secure the debate , and for the eloquent and passionate way in which he speak . I agree that it have be hard prepare for this debate , because in many way I think we have still to come to term with what happen . for I , it be particularly strange as a new MP , as I be at the start of 2020 . I arrive in this place expect everything to be see , debate and understand through the lens of Brexit , because that be how it have be in the recent year up to that point . just three month after my election , we see covid and national lockdown , and everything change . I recruit staff , hand they laptop and do not know when I would see and engage with they again . this place be diminish too . the benefit of develop cross - party relationship be so valuable and we do not realise that until there be no opportunity for it . in the same way the hon . member for West Ham and Beckton thank those in his community , I recognise the staff here who do so much to facilitate the sitting of this House and the work that need to be do . every day , as I come here , I walk past the national covid memorial . on a couple of occasion I have see people update or enhance some of the fading that have take place — and it be important that we do that . the memorial be across from this place , and we take this moment to remember the 200 , 000 - plus people who die from covid - 19 in the UK . the memorial be a daily , poignant reminder of the cruel , devastating and terrifying disease that covid be , especially in those early month . for those affect , the pain of that loss be still acute . as a Scottish MP , I want to touch on how policy response to the pandemic highlight that often we do not have four - nation thinking and decision making . in those early day , everything be align and we see the strength of intergovernmental thinking and decision . as hard as it be , there be one set of rule and they apply everywhere . there be no doubt , however , that as time go on , the rule get more complex — inside , outside , work , two metre , rule of six and tier — and they differ between the four nation . I have to have covid app for Scotland and for England , and occasionally get ping in different place by different app . another example from my constituency be the impact on golf and tourism , and that include the impact of the different rule . we need to learn those lesson , and I be pleased to see that there be well intergovernmental work between the Scottish and UK government . however , where we have different policy response , we always need to ensure that they be good , they be clear and they be for the right reason . I commend my hon . friend the Member for West Ham and Beckton ( James Asser ) for secure this debate . the covid - 19 pandemic have a global reach , yet the impact be not feel equally . on a local level , the pandemic have a disproportionate impact on some of the most vulnerable in society . the elderly , those with pre - exist condition and people live in the most deprive area see some of the high fatality rate . the covid - 19 pandemic in the UK and globally display for all to see — or all who care to see — the damn consequence of societal and economic inequality . globally , covid - 19 be estimate to have directly cause 7 million death and many million more indirectly . the global response be unequal and unjust , with many country starve of essential vaccine , test and treatment . though some speak of covid - 19 as be a once - in - a - lifetime event , that be not necessarily true . a key way of honour those who die , those who be leave bereaved and those who suffer in so many way be to focus on have a plan for the next pandemic . study suggest that outbreak cause by disease move from animal to people be happen more often and with great impact . that say , there be reason for hope in that area . a number of initiative and project be work to ensure that the next outbreak do not catch we unprepared . one example be the 100 Days Mission , which be a global initiative that aim to have safe , effective and accessible vaccine , test and treatment within 100 day of the next pandemic . it be estimate that have the world deploy vaccine , test and treatment within 100 day for covid , rather than within 300 day , we could have prevent 8 . 3 million excess death and avoid trillion in economic loss . it be welcome that the UK Government continue to support that mission and more general global health research and development . research in that area and in so many other be so important . we live in an age where some decry expert . I suggest that we need more expertise , research and science , not less . we need to remember those who suffer and those who die , and we need to mark that by a commitment to ensure that we be well place than ever before for any such eventuality in the future . I pay tribute to the hon . member for West Ham and Beckton ( James Asser ) for secure the debate , which take place five year after covid - 19 sweep across the country . it be right that we take a moment to reflect not only on what we have lose , but the duty we have to those who continue to carry the burden of the pandemic . today I speak for some of the family who catch covid and never recover . for they , the pandemic be not history , a chapter from their past ; it be still very much with they today . I speak particularly for those in my constituency who do the right thing , follow the rule , take the vaccine and be harm . in particular , I want to share the story of Adam Bounds , who come from Axminster . he be 41 year old . he be a devoted father , a hard - work man and deeply love by his family . on 20 May 2021 , he receive his first dose of the AstraZeneca vaccine , and 11 day later he die of vaccine - induce thrombotic thrombo - cytopenia , which be a rare but now medically recognise side effect — essentially , blood clot . my constituent — Adam ' s father Leslie — have fight a dignified and determined campaign to get compensation for Adam ' s son , his grandson , through the vaccine damage payment scheme . it have take two year and considerable stress and anxiety . the family have now receive the £ 120 , 000 payment , and Leslie have deal with it all , cause he an enormous amount of trauma , frankly — two year of form fill , chase department and relive that awful historic period . if we want people to have faith in vaccine , and I do , we must ensure that we have a proper , function compensation system that be swift , supportive and responsive to the need of grieve family . justice be about not only those who die , but those who live with the aftershock . in Devon , 20 , 000 people be report to have long covid . my hon . friend speak passionately about an issue that also affect constituent of mine , such as Anna in Harpenden , a 12 - year - old who live with long covid . she have headache and stomach issue day in , day out . do he agree that we need to have a covid register and care pathway to ensure that those live with the consequence of covid be properly look after ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . a covid register make good sense . she mention symptom , and those can also include tiredness , struggle for breath , memory problem and heart palpitation . we should remember that many of the people affect by long covid be the very people who take the brave decision to expose themselves right at the beginning . they be the people we pay tribute to , such as care worker , shop assistant , health staff and teacher — those who keep society go while other be isolate . last month , I be speak with resident in Sidmouth and meet a constituent who share the impact that long covid continue to have on his daughter . she be somebody who be hard - work and determine but now find that her energy have almost vanish . she be unable to work and be often confine to her bed , and her social life have disappear . like thousand of other across the UK , she face the potential hammer blow of the Government ' s propose welfare reform . Most people with fluctuate invisible condition like long covid or I will not be eligible , as we understand , for personal independence payment under the new assessment . accord to the Office for National Statistics , 3 . 6 % of adult say they have experience long covid at some point . if we want a society that be prepare for the next crisis , we must learn the lesson of the last one . we owe it to Leslie Bounds and other in Sidmouth and to everyone across the country who suffer from covid . I thank my hon . friend the Member for West Ham and Beckton ( James Asser ) for secure this debate . we have rightly speak about those who die during the pandemic , but covid also do something else : it make it much hard for people to earn a decent living . those who be already struggle — the low pay , the young and people in place outside London — suffer the most . first , covid hit low - pay people in job such as bartende , which could be do only in person because they require complex manual movement , while those in high - pay job could use Zoom to reach the office . the low pay be hit and far more likely to be lay off or place on furlough . secondly , the young fall behind while the wealthy baby boomer continue to pull ahead . in the two decade lead up to covid , house price go up by 100 % while wage grow by only 20 % . that be why the young can not afford home . during the pandemic , quantitative easing , low interest rate and pensioner not spend cash mean that baby boomer start to buy home again , and house price be up 25 % since covid begin , while some 40 % of 18 to 30 - year - old be live at home with mum and dad . thirdly , London continue to pull ahead . zoom to work enlarge London ' s effective size , while place outside the capital lose out . More and more people and economic activity be suck into the capital . the people who already could not make end meet be pull away not only from mainstream party but from this House itself . the economically insecure be 50 % more likely to have stop support the Labour party , but they be also leave almost every party in this House . we can reshape our nation so that everyone can earn enough , but we will do it only if the Government act . for the low pay , we must invest to create good job and to get bill down . for the young , we must build far more home . for the rest of the nation , we must invest outside London . we be at this moment a nation deeply divided , and the pandemic widen those division . thousand of self - employ people and business owner be exclude from Government support because of the arbitrary eligibility criterion . they pay their taxis but be leave unsupported during the crisis . do the hon . Member agree that it be disappointing that those people be still struggle five year on ? indeed , huge number of people be hit so hard during the pandemic . we agree that although support be broad , it certainly be not perfect . on top of the suffering , the pandemic widen exist inequality and division in our nation . those who could not earn enough — the low pay , the young and people outside London — be hit the hard . they be already turn away from we in this House ; they be now turn away more quickly . we can bring they back only if we act to ensure that every single person can earn enough for a decent life , if we create a nation in which we recognise that our strength be found in each of we do well — a nation of unity , common purpose and connection . it be for we to build that nation , as my hon . friend the Member for West Ham and Beckton rightly note . I thank my hon . friend the Member for West Ham and Beckton ( James Asser ) for secure the debate and for his tribute to public service worker . we should never forget that in place like Edinburgh , everyone — from bus driver to bin lorry driver — take huge risk at the start of the pandemic because the consequence and transmission of the virus be not understand . at this point , I must mention my lovely wife , who work in end - of - life care as a nurse all the way through , as well as the fantastic Hannah in my office , who work in a care home . Covid have not disappear . the fantastic covid memorial wall across the river from this building tell we that . the number of heart on it be slowly grow . I hope that , when she respond , the Minister will give we an update on any plan to make the memorial permanent and acknowledge the fantastic work of the friend of the wall . Covid have not go away yet . in one week alone in Scotland last year , 443 people be hospitalise with covid . long covid be now just as prevalent as stroke , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and atrial fibrillation . I thank my hon . friend for bring up long covid . the organisation Long Covid Kids , which be found by my constituent Sammie McFarland , highlight the experience of young people with long covid . do he agree that we must ensure we give long covid the consideration it need alongside other illness when we develop health policy , even though we be five year on from the pandemic ? absolutely . I hope I will be able to expand on that in the time I have remain , but that organisation sound fantastic , so I thank my hon . friend for mention it . one of the most powerful thing about be an MP be the people we meet , particularly in our constituency . one of those people be Sophie , who attend my surgery in the fantastic Fountainbridge library . her story starkly portray the reality of live with long covid . Sophie enjoy a full and active life before the pandemic . she use to run to her office in the morning , where she oversee a small , dedicated team of designer — I be sure she be not too sweaty after her run to work . she now rely on a wheelchair to get around and be largely housebound . she say , " I be desperate to get back to my career and live again " , but doctor have be unable to help she . Sophie be one of a small but grow number of constituent who write to I with story that highlight the seemingly irreversible impact that a covid infection have have on their life . with no prove treatment or a cure in sight , we can not afford to treat covid as old news . we need to keep talk about it , and particularly about those people who be suffer from long covid . it should not be an economic argument , but the impact of long covid on our economy be significant : it be estimate to cost we £ 4 . 2 billion up to 2030 . as long as treatment option remain limited and new patient continue to join the thousand already grapple with long covid on a daily basis , we need to do just three thing to help they and reduce the burden on our NHS : we need to empathise with those who have this condition and treat it seriously — too often , they be see as work the system , and I know through the people I have meet that that be completely untrue ; we need to invest in new trial and research ; and we need to recognise that while the threat of covid may have diminish , we have to take it seriously and ensure that vulnerable group be vaccinate . I declare my interest in this debate as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on vulnerable group to pandemic . " stay at home . protect the NHS . save life . " it be almost surreal , five year on , to say those word aloud today . Most of we have never hear of social distancing or imagine a Britain under lockdown . overnight , vibrant community turn still . our high street , once fill with life and laughter , become eerily silent , like scene from a Hollywood sci - fi . but this be not fiction ; it be our shared reality . the consequence be real and the sacrifice immeasurable . today , as we reflect on that time , we carry a duty to not just remember but learn the lesson for the future . for many of we , the covid pandemic feel like a closed chapter . the lockdown have end , the pub be open , the mask be off and life have almost return to normal , but for over 1 million people across the UK , normal never really return . those be people who be immunocompromise . they can not mount an effective response to mRNA — messenger ribonucleic acid — vaccine . the very tool that pull so many of we out of lockdown — the vaccine — simply do not work for they . that mean today , in 2025 , they be still live with the same risk that the elderly and clinically vulnerable face in those terrifying month in 2020 . they be still shield , still isolate and still leave behind , and the toll on those people and their family be appalling . a recent report by the campaign group Forgotten live UK find that 93 % of family member of immunocompromise patient be still shield to protect their love one . three quarter of those family be in the clinical range for anxiety and depression . half of all patient be miss medical appointment , and a third be face financial hardship . I know the Secretary of State have meet with immunocompromise patient and representative from the Forgotten live UK group . I welcome that engagement and echo its call for well support . however , I must express my disappointment . as chair of the all - party group on vulnerable group to pandemic , I write to the previous Minister and the current Minister , ask they to meet I and those immunocompromise patient . to date , I have not receive a response , so I would be grateful if the Minister would follow up on that matter directly . in conclusion — I be flip through my well prepared speech , Madam Deputy Speaker — we need a whole - government approach to address this issue , and tangible assistance to help people reintegrate into work and public life ; and we need to educate society about the risk that covid - 19 continue to pose to immuno - compromise individual . rise — order . we will not get everybody in unless I drop the time limit again down to two minute . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for West Ham and Beckton ( James Asser ) on secure this debate , so that we can learn from the covid year . I first pay tribute to the amazing health worker , volunteer and key worker who support we through that turbulent time , and I will focus my brief contribution on the often overlook impact that covid have on maternity service and pregnancy , and on the live experience of woman . we know that woman be shut out of the high level of decision making during the pandemic , and their voice be sideline . research from the London School of Economics and Political Science find that the Conservative Government consistently fail to consider gender in their response to covid - 19 . during covid , the Maternal Mental Health Alliance report a sharp rise in maternal anxiety , and the already concern gap in perinatal mental health service widen far . informed support network , which be so vital to new mother , be decimate by lockdown and restriction . the withdrawal of home birth service and the closure of midwife - lead unit during the pandemic curtail woman ' s autonomy over how and where to give birth . that shift see many woman force to deliver in hospital where covid - 19 be actively be treat , heighten the health risk for mother and newborn . Post - natal service also suffer immensely . a coalition of 13 pregnancy and baby charity give evidence about covid - 19 , and they speak about the way that the need of mother and new parent be consistently overlook in critical healthcare decision . for instance , one - year assessment be do by video call ; there be a lack of replacement for in - person baby class ; and there be no health visitor or community practitioner . we be run short of time , so in conclusion , I remind the House that roughly 1 . 85 million baby be bear during the UK pandemic year , and all those child have mother who have to face that time alone , confused and forget . we owe it to every parent , midwife and newborn to ensure that never happen again . let that be our legacy — not just remembrance , but the resolve to build a health system that be resilient , compassionate and prepared . the next generation deserve to be welcome into a world that have learn from its past and strive for well . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for West Ham and Beckton ( James Asser ) on secure this debate . it may be five year since the pandemic begin , but those year cast a long shadow . regrettably , the effect will be feel for many year to come . across my constituency in and around Bolton , the pandemic leave a deep scar , with thousand of life tragically cut short . those be not number on a board or figure on a screen ; they be neighbour , parent , sibling , child , mum and dad , aunt and uncle , family friend and love one . their memory must be honour , not just with fine word in the Chamber today , but in our commitment to learn the lesson from the covid pandemic , so that never again do we find ourselves wholly unprepared for a public health emergency . we would be do all those people who lose or risk their life a huge disservice if we do not learn the lesson of the pandemic , so I implore the Minister — I hope we will make progress on this — to look at how it be possible that our frontline worker be send into battle against the virus without adequate personal protective equipment . there be PPE that be deem unfit for purpose , PPE that be not deliver in a timely manner , and PPE that be not manufacture to NHS requirement . PPE contract award by the previous Government mean that million of pound of taxpayer ' money be squander through a cavalier approach to procurement , and serious question be raise about integrity , probity , and value for money . five year after covid first hit these shore , these issue continue to wind their way through our court . of course the Government need to act at speed — nobody deny that — but what go on be , in my view , inexcusable . lead anti - corruption charity Transparency International UK produce a 2024 report , " behind the Mask " , which find a total of 135 high - risk covid - 19 contract , total £ 15 . 3 billion . many of those be award without competitive tender , and be rush . in Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole , up to 1 , 400 people die because of covid , and many in my constituency be live with grief , trauma and long covid . when I speak to GPs , they be rightly pleased with and proud of their role in vaccinate our town and country , but they feel that this role have be forget . do my hon . friend agree that we must remember the contribution of our GPs as vaccinator , and send the signal that this House thank they ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s contribution . we should thank not just GPs , but all the key worker who be vital in ensure that our country could keep go , and who keep we safe during those terrible year . return to the point about Government procurement , the vip lane disproportionately favour company with political connection , rather than prioritise value for money or capability to deliver . the National Audit Office find that supplier on the vip list be 10 time more likely to secure a PPE contract from the Government than those who come through the ordinary lane . that would be all well and good if those contract have provide any sort of value for money , but the Good Law Project reveal that such contract be 80 % more expensive than other supplier be . indeed , some contract be agree at more than four time the average unit price . to close , in order to truly honour the legacy of the hundred of thousand who tragically lose their life in the pandemic , we must act on the lesson learn during those awful few year . we must ensure that there be a proper government procurement system that can secure public trust . hon . member have mention the memorial wall on the bank of the Thames , opposite this place , on which 240 , 000 heart denote individual we lose during covid - 19 . I want to mention one of those individual : my grandad Bill . we lose he in June 2020 , five year ago next week . he go into hospital with something else , but he contract covid on the ward and he pass away . he die on his own in a hospital bed . none of we be allow to see he , because we be follow the rule , and the next time I see he , he be in a coffin , in an empty church . the reason I remember that date in June 2020 so viscerally be not only because we lose my grandad in a way that mean it be impossible to properly grieve , but because on that very same day , the then Prime Minister have a birthday party in no . 10 . many people across this House and this country will have story like that . while we follow the rule , make sacrifice and lose people , other act with impunity . I do not want to make my comment party political — I know that there will be Conservative Members who will also feel angry about what happen — but as we mark this anniversary , I hope all of we commit to ensure that the bond of trust between politician and the public be rebuild , and be never again fray and break in such a fundamental way . in the remain second that I have , I pay tribute to all our key worker , everyone in our NHS and all our community , particularly those in Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland . they come together during that pandemic , as we always have in time of hardship , but in a way that we have never see before . in the time I have available , I will focus on education and care provision during the pandemic . I be serve as North Lanarkshire ' s chair of education when the Scottish Government direct the closure of school in March 2020 . within day , the entire country be lock down , and we move to home - schooling and virtual lesson . do my hon . friend share my concern for the child in all our constituency who , after lose nearly two year of face - to - face schooling , be still suffer set - back in their learning and their social skill ? will he join I in call on the Government to channel investment into those who be at school during those year of disruption , to ensure that there be not a lost generation in this country ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the UK Government be invest significantly in skill and apprenticeship for some of those young people who be impact by the pandemic , and we need to see that in Scotland as well . for child transition from early year to primary 1 , and from primary 7 to secondary , it must have feel like experience an alternative universe , give social distancing , the expansion of digital learning and the use of PPE . sadly , despite the good effort of those on the frontline , young people lose learning , and we have to tackle that head - on . however , they show resilience . sadly , that resilience and those effort be trample on when the Scottish Government seek to downgrade the higher result of 2 , 900 child from my local authority area . some 46 % of young people be discriminate against base on their postcode , rather than recognise for their ability . thankfully , young people successfully fight back on that . I will also touch on the role of carer . like so many frontline worker , they show up and put their health and wellbee on the line to serve some of the most vulnerable in our community . they do so despite , at time , limited and faulty PPE , entrenched low pay , and poor policy decision that see frail patient discharge from hospital and into care home untested , contribute to 5 , 000 care home death . there can often be a focus on Downing Street party or delete WhatsApp message , but at the forefront of our mind must always be the victim of covid , include those who die unnecessarily and those who live with long covid and the psychological impact of the disease , as my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) say . there be also those who deliver the ultimate act of service , include refuse collector , police officer , nurse , shop worker and many other from the voluntary sector and religious establishment . as we recognise the fifth anniversary of covid , their effort in the face of such hardship , their resilience and their sacrifice must be the true and lasting legacy of such an unprecedented pandemic , which we must all fight to ensure that we never experience again . I will follow on from my hon . friend the Members for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) and for Paisley and Renfrewshire South ( Johanna Baxter ) . I have be meet a group of clinician who approach I , lead by Dr Rae Duncan , a consultant cardiologist and long - covid physician and researcher at Newcastle hospital . she have provide I with a detailed briefing note ; the two - minute limit will not allow I to do any justice to it , so I will circulate it to hon . member , but its message be very straightforward . the team want to get across the message that covid be not over . it be not seasonal , and it be not just a cold . it be a long - term , substantial and chronic burden . I will be brief . this be diabetes week , and we be rightly look at the impact that diabete have on child . do the right hon . Member agree that a similar approach must be take for long covid ? we must look at the unique impact it have on child and young people , so that we can well understand it . will the right hon . member give way ? order . I think the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) need to respond to the first intervention . I appreciate what be happen , though , and he may wish to take the second intervention shortly afterwards . I have never see an intervention on an intervention . I will follow on from that point . the clinician be try to get across to I that , as other have say , covid double the risk of a heart attack . we have see heart attack , stroke , pulmonary embolism and deep - vein thrombosis . in addition , the team be try to get across the message that long covid be not simply fatigue . it be an umbrella term for a range of chronic , multi - system pathology that have an effect . there be one issue that affect child in particular . the work of Dr Danielle Beckman have show that covid breach the blood - brain barrier . as a result , it infect the neuron and cause persistent brain inflammation , thereby impose cognitive impediment . my right hon . friend be speak about child . do he agree that the covid pandemic really affect child who be go through school ? all of a sudden , they could not see their friend for many , many week . I work in the NHS . when we be live in the moment , we do not think of these thing , but when we reflect , we think , " oh God , what a time we live through . " that strike I when I be with my niece , who be run through the park , and she see her friend — she be 10 year old . they run and hug . it be fantastic to see . they have not see each other for so long . that act of kindness , friendship and come together of spirit really lift I , because even child of that age be feel something huge that they have never feel before . that be an inspirational point for I during covid , and the same point hit I when carry out my NHS role . the intervention on an intervention be definitely worth it . I will briefly raise another issue . one of the message the clinician want I to get across be exactly that : child have not be spare . some of the research they have do , for example , indicate that covid double the risk of cardiovascular disease and diabete in child as well . a recent study in America indicate that up to 20 % of child at the moment be endanger and experience long covid symptom . one of the other issue that come out of my discussion with the clinician be that repeat infection be cumulative and dangerous , result in long covid that increase the risk of cardiovascular , neurological , gastrointestinal and endocrine disease . these clinician be try to get across how challenging the situation be . the problem we have at the moment be that the Office for National Statistics ' covid infection survey have be shut down . I can understand the argument for do so at the time , but the figure come out of the recent GPs ' survey be that 3 . 2 million people be experience long covid at the moment — again , a staggering figure . a number of recommendation have be make , one of which be to restore national infection surveillance as quickly as possible . exactly as my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West have say , we should fund research and clinical service for long covid . we should implement public health mitigation to reduce infection , particularly in place such as hospital , classroom and so on . we benefit from air circulation in this building ; other should as well . finally , as my hon . Friend say , we should protect vulnerable population — include child — from the chronic disability that covid can impose . I will circulate the briefing paper to all member , and we can have another discussion at another time . I be hope no one would turn up today and I would have long for my speech . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . today , we mark five year since the start of the covid - 19 pandemic . just under 227 , 000 people in the UK die with covid - 19 list as a cause on their death certificate . every one of those statistic be a mother , a father , a brother , a sister , a child , a neighbour or a friend . thousand be separate from their love one , and that loss and grief may never fully heal . yet in the darkest of time , the british people shine with immense compassion and courage , and a sense of community spirit . doctor , nurse and carer work punish hour , often risk their own life ; teacher , council worker and other work in the tough of condition ; and volunteer come forward in drove to collect and deliver prescription , shop for the frail and elderly , staff temporary centre to administer vaccine , and check in on neighbour . that resilience and solidarity show the very good of who we be . sadly , that same spirit of public service be not reflect in the high office of Government . the finding of the first covid inquiry , lead by Baroness Hallett , lay bare the truth that the UK be ill - prepared for deal with a catastrophic emergency , let alone the coronavirus pandemic . we have plan for the wrong pandemic , one base on flu ; we ignore the risk associate with other potential pathogen ; we ignore warning ; and then we fail to act on lesson from past civil emergency exercise and outbreak of disease . these be systemic and political failing that worsen people ' s suffer . let we be frank : the most vulnerable pay the high price . there be cruelty in the rigidity of restriction , with family keep apart even in their love one ' final moment . all of this be make more painful by the bitter hypocrisy of partygate , a betrayal of trust that mock the sacrifice of million . the Lib Dems call for an inquiry in 2020 , and we continue to demand answer . the full fact must be know about every aspect of the Government ' s poor response . this be not bear out of a desire for vengeance ; the british people deserve to know the truth , and they deserve far well in future . we now have a moral responsibility to act , and this Government must commit to implement the inquiry ' s recommendation in full and without delay . patient and care home resident must have a legal right to maintain contact with their love one ; a comprehensive civil emergency strategy be essential ; and the new UK Resilience Academy must train 4 , 000 people in resilience and emergency role , as promise . can the Minister give we confidence that this will be deliver ? the voice of frail and old people must be hear at the heart of Government planning . we call for a commissioner for ageing and old people , to ensure that their need be never neglect again . public official must be hold to a duty of candour — the Government ' s promise of a Hillsborough law remain unfulfilled . can the Minister say when survivor and family will see the legislation for which they have wait so long ? we must also confront a hard truth : our nation be less resilient because health inequality have leave our population quite simply less healthy . year of cut to public health service under the Conservatives leave we more vulnerable . the Lib Dems be call for urgent action to increase the public health grant and allow community to co - produce plan ; establish a health creation unit to lead cross - Government effort to improve health and wellbeing and tackle inequality ; improve access to blood pressure check in community space and expand social prescribing ; introduce a new kitemark for health app and digital health tool , ensure that they be clinically sound ; create a new levy on tobacco company profit to fund healthcare and smoking cessation service ; and pass a clean air Act to tackle pollution and improve air quality . lastly , we must not forget those live with the consequence of the virus , as member have mention . we call for a long covid register . as we remember those whom we lose , we owe it to they and to future generation to ensure that these lesson be not bury in report and leave on shelf , but lead to real change that make improvement in our constituent ' live . the british people be courageous , generous and selfless ; they deserve a Government who act to match that spirit . I call the shadow Secretary of State for Health and Social Care . I congratulate the hon . member for West Ham and Beckton ( James Asser ) on his speech and on secure this important debate . the vast majority of contribution today have be measure , thoughtful and non - political , and I think they have do this House proud . it be right that we remember , reflect and learn . it be the least we owe those who lose love one during the pandemic . as someone who during the pandemic be do the job of the Minister , I recall it incredibly well , as will so many in this House and outside it . the hon . Gentleman say — I know what he mean — that with the passage of five year , sometimes what happen then can feel a bit like a dream . it be something that still catch I in mine at night . I often wake with a jolt , suddenly remember vividly something that take place then — something that we do or have to do , or a particular moment as a Minister . I suspect that that be true of many up and down this country in many different walk of life , particularly those who be on the frontline . my wife be an obs and gynae doctor , and she still be . she be one of those people on the frontline whom the shadow Secretary of State describe . do he agree that there need to be a study into the long - term impact on the wellbeing of staff who be on the frontline deal with these traumatic situation , so as to understand the impact on health and productivity within the NHS ? that be important , because people up and down this country still live with the impact of the pandemic through long covid and mental health challenge . we see that huge impact still today on individual and the NHS . we must remember how the country come together in the face of unprecedented event , about which we learn more every day . we have to adapt our approach to that change knowledge . I be grateful to all member from all part of this Chamber for what they do . a few member in the Chamber be in the House at the time , and they will remember the work of Jon Ashworth , which I recognise in particular . he be in this place at that time , and I remember his cross - party approach to so much that be do . I pay tribute to the emergency service , to councillor and to the people of this country , particularly those who work in health and social care and those who lose someone . it be a traumatic time for the whole country . there be lesson that must be learn about plan for future pandemic and support those with long covid . the hon . member for Honiton and Sidmouth ( Richard Foord ) be right — like so many , I have constituent who lose love one and family member who be affect by the vaccine , as have be recognise by a coroner . they have be dignified and courteous , but they call for the Government to review the vaccine damage payment scheme . I hope that the Minister will take that suggestion in the spirit in which it be intend . we owe it to this country to make sure that we be well prepared for any future pandemic . we owe it to those who lose love one and those who suffer in so many different way : those with long covid , those with mental ill health , kid who be unable to attend school , domestic abuse sufferer and those who still suffer today . it be right that we remember , reflect and debate , as we do now , in order to learn . as a former Health Minister , I have memory that continue to surface . we will all of we live with our memory of that time till the end of our day . the least we can do be to ensure that this House and this country always remember and reflect carefully on what we can do well next time . I be short of time , but the Under - Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley South ( Stephanie Peacock ) , who lead on this issue , have hotfoot it from Committee and will take up any issue that I do not address . I thank my hon . friend the Member for West Ham and Beckton ( James Asser ) for secure what have be a moving and popular debate . as he say , we have to remember the people and community behind the number . my thought , and those of everyone , be with the family and community who lose love one because of the pandemic . we have hear the magnitude of that grief express today , as well as the pain of family who be unable to be with their love one in the normal ritual of grief and bereavement . my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland ( Luke Myer ) speak about the loss of his grandfather . the hon . member for Honiton and Sidmouth ( Richard Foord ) talk about the loss of Adam , and we understand the battle to get compensation payment . my hon . friend the Member for Ribble Valley ( Maya Ellis ) talk about woman ' s experience of pregnancy and birth . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Paisley and Renfrewshire South ( Johanna Baxter ) for the work that she be do on the APPG , and I will make sure that she get a response to her letter . it have be hearten to hear of the many way that community have commemorate the loss and sacrifice experience during the pandemic . the Government will bring forward a programme of covid - 19 commemorative activity , and we will set out full detail in response to the recommendation of the UK Commission on Covid Commemoration . I thank Baroness Morgan of Cotes and all the commission member for their consideration in recommend how to mark this period , and for their ongoing engagement with the Department for Culture , Media and Sport , which will lead on the commemorative activity . DCMS be work with a range of partner , include my Department , and regularly engage with the covid - 19 bereaved family group . I thank those group for their ongoing support and commend they for their strength and resilience , and for the support that they provide to other grieve family . as part of the commemoration of the pandemic , the Government support the Covid - 19 Day of Reflection in March , when more than 200 event take place . I can confirm that the Covid - 19 Day of Reflection 2026 will take place on Sunday 8 March , and I hope that member will support activity in their constituency . as we have hear , across the river from this House stand the covid - 19 memorial wall . I certainly remember the first time we stop at that memorial after we lose my father - in - law , Brian Davies . it be a really move and powerful tribute to the life lose , with almost 250 , 000 heart lovingly paint on the wall . for family , it be a really important space where they can remember . I agree with the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) that it be a poignant reminder when we pass it every day , and I know that my colleague in DCMS be work with the friend of the Wall on that long - stand commemoration and will update the House in due course . together we remember the courageous sacrifice make by frontline worker across the country , and we have hear about many of they today . there be too many people to mention , but they include NHS staff , train and bus driver , refuse collector , and supermarket and delivery staff . I agree with my hon . friend the Member for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) that many on the frontline be the poor and low pay , and they be disproportionately affect . we must continue to make sure that that do not happen again . the pandemic demonstrate the remarkable work of civil society . an estimate 12 . 4 million people volunteer in some way , include as vaccine volunteer , befriender and carer , as be mention by my hon . friend the Member for Coatbridge and Bellshill ( Frank McNally ) . I will briefly turn to the step that we be take to ensure that the United Kingdom be well prepared for a future pandemic , which remain a top priority for this Government . my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow North ( Martin Rhodes ) make a crucial point about learn lesson on PPE , as do my hon . friend the Member for Bolton West ( Phil Brickell ) . later this year , we will conduct a national exercise to test our ability to respond to a pandemic , and this will involve all region and nation of the United Kingdom , with thousand of participant . the outcome of the exercise will inform how we approach a pandemic in future . we have hear about long covid , and I would talk more about it if I have more time . the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) speak about that , as do many other . since 2020 , NHS England have invest significantly in support people with long covid , include through specialist post - covid service for adult , child and young people , and it have invest over £ 57 million in long covid research , which will remain hugely important . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for West Ham and Beckton for secure this important debate . as we mark the fifth anniversary of the pandemic , together we will ensure that lesson be learn , that our loss be honour , and that as a nation we do not forget . in the few second I have , I just want to say that I think it be important to have this debate so that the fifth anniversary do not pass without be mark . it be clear that we have merely touch the surface of what could be say , but I thank hon . member across the House who have contribute . much have be say , and there be clearly much more to say . I put on record my thank to my constituent for all they have do . I hope that all the family and all those affect who have be watch will feel that this debate have be important in recognise the past five year , acknowledge that there be more to be say and that we will talk far about it . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the fifth anniversary of the covid - 19 pandemic . I thank all member , and I especially thank the Minister for be so swift at the Dispatch Box . Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Kate Dearden . ) I thank the Minister for what I think be her triple shift at the Dispatch Box today . a few month ago , I meet three really great young lad — Benjamin , Eli and Jack . we have a great conversation , and they have I laugh and joke along with they for a very long time . I slightly disappoint Eli when I first open my mouth because , listen to I , he recognise where I be from , and he ask if I could introduce he to Sam Fender . the north - east be quite small , but I do not know everyone , and I could see the disappointment on his face . one of the thing we talk about be what they want to do in the future . Eli be consider be a musician , and Jack say he would like to do something involve public speaking or , who know , even be a politician . it be really great to see that level of ambition , but for I it be tinge with sadness ; I know that they be unlikely to realise their ambition , because Benjamin , Jack and Eli be unlikely to see their 30th birthday . Benjamin , Jack and Eli all have Duchenne muscular dystrophy . it be a disease that affect only boy , and about 100 baby boy be bear with it every year . diagnosis be normally at the age of three or four , and at that moment the parent find out that their son have a life - limit condition that can not be treat , and that he will probably need a wheelchair by the age of 12 and a ventilator by the age of 20 . there be no cure for Duchenne muscular dystrophy , but there be hope now with a new drug call givinostat . Givinostat be develop by an italian company , Italfarmaco , and it be an example of the brilliance of our UK life science sector that it decide to develop the drug here in the UK . as it have be trialle here , Italfarmaco have give the national health service a unique option to prescribe givinostat through an early - access programme entirely free of charge . the NHS can offer this drug to boy in the UK completely free of charge , and the early - access programme have be available since November last year . member might think that such an opportunity would be seize quickly by the NHS , but sadly it have not be . many family have have their hope raise , only for they to be dash when they find that they can not access the treatment . patient , family and charity be now call for urgent access to givinostat , as be many member of this House . my constituent Tracy be one of the many who have be fight for their child ' s right to live , and for the treatment that have be prove to slow down the progression of Duchenne . her son , Tom , be 14 year old , and she tell I that he be deteriorate . Givinostat have market authorisation for all boy with Duchenne over the age of six . it have be prove to slow its progression in clinical trial . it be not a cure — the family realise it be not a cure — but it could help boy and young man to keep walk and use their muscle for long . like my hon . friend , I have a constituent , Jamie Tierney , who , sadly , suffer with Duchenne muscular dystrophy . recently , he have be able to begin treatment , as have other patient in Scotland , but it take a lot of work and in some case intervention by lawyer to get that . Jamie ' s family tell I that " Time be muscle " . do my hon . friend agree that the soon we make givinostat available across all part of the UK , the well it will be for those people ? yes , I do agree with that very timely intervention . in fact , the slogan of Duchenne UK be " Time be muscle " , and it be absolutely right that every day and every week make a difference to these boy . I congratulate the hon . gentleman on bring forward this debate . he and I speak about it the other day . I have some constituent who have have a brave few year with Duchenne muscular dystrophy . the problem be that the opportunity of this drug have never be there for they , but it need to be . up until now in Northern Ireland , Duchenne treatment have include corticosteroid , physical therapy and other supportive therapy , while access to new treatment , such as vamorolone or givinostat , be be work on — we in Northern Ireland have not have access to they either . it seem to be almost a postcode lottery . do he agree that these drug could give those young boy a life - change opportunity that they would never have otherwise , and that , with great respect to the Minister , the Government need to move and ensure that they all get these drug ? I thank the hon . member for that intervention . I be very pleased that he have intervene and I think the comment about a postcode lottery be exactly right . I note , when I look at the figure , that currently the Belfast health and social care trust be not offer the drug to lad in Northern Ireland , because it be claim that it will cost £ 309 , 000 for 13 patient . that be different from the rest of the country by an order of magnitude , so I would be grateful if the Minister look very carefully at the situation in Northern Ireland . I thank the hon . gentleman for secure this debate . I have be engage with the Oxford NHS trust , which be not yet provide givinostat to boy in Oxfordshire . its own business case suggest that it would cost less than £ 2 , 000 per boy and £ 66 , 000 in total for the 35 boy . clearly , as a country , we should be able to afford such a sum . do he agree that a hospital that want to be world - lead should be provide it ? do he far agree that this be exactly the sort of thing we need Government intervention on , so that these boy can get treatment as soon as possible ? I do agree . I recognise the figure from the Oxford university hospital NHS foundation trust . it be quote around £ 2 , 000 per lad treat , which I understand be very similar to other area of the country . I see that as quite a small amount of money for the 35 life that could be save . despite , as we have hear , givinostat be available for more than seven month , there have be a very inconsistent approach across the UK . a very small number of ambulant people live with DMD have so far receive the treatment , and no non - ambulant boy have be treat with it yet . I , too , thank my hon . friend for secure this important debate . I meet a family in my constituency whose son be suffer with Duchenne . he be at that key stage right now where he still have his mobility , but he be start to lose it . do my hon . friend agree that , as the campaign say , time be muscle ? if we act now , we can prevent further deterioration of his mobility . yes , my hon . friend be absolutely right about that . time be muscle , as she say . sadly , because the drug be currently only available , in the area where it be available , to lad who be ambulant , the waiting time have mean that some lad out there who would have qualify for the drug now no long do so . that is , frankly , heartbreaking . of course , the use of one ' s leg be not the only thing people be concern about . we need to be able to use our arm to be able to dress ourselves , feed ourselves and brush our tooth , and givinostat could help with that . it be very disheartening that while cope with all of this , family , parent and carer and so on be have to fight for access to the drug on a trust by trust basis . they have do that with the support of all the Members in the Chamber tonight . I be very grateful for the fact that they have turn up , because I know family be watch . I also want to mention some member who have approach I who would have love to have be here but can not be due to other commitment in the House . my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend ( Mary Glindon ) have campaign on this subject for many year and chair the all - party parliamentary group . a constituent of my hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Luke Murphy ) , who have the disease , visit Parliament on Monday and be so pleased to see on the Annunciator that we be have this debate . my hon . friend the Members for Bury North ( Mr Frith ) and for Bury South ( Christian Wakeford ) work together to ensure that Manchester university NHS foundation trust do now provide the drug to their constituent . William from Codicote , a constituent of my hon . friend the Member for Stevenage ( Kevin Bonavia ) , be live with Duchenne . the hon . member for Chester South and Eddisbury ( Aphra Brandreth ) have be support Mr and Mrs Binns , whose son Jack have Duchenne . they do not yet have access to givinostat and be try to get it . I have also have representation from my hon . friend the Member for Beckenham and Penge ( Liam Conlon ) , the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) and my hon . friend the Member for Altrincham and Sale West ( Mr Rand ) . we can see that there be broad support across all party in the House , with member work with their constituent to try to secure this drug which be free of charge — free of charge — to the NHS . we have hear that provision be very patchy across England . there be some central co - ordination in Scotland , but no lad in Northern Ireland can access the treatment . I thank my hon . friend for secure this debate . it be important to acknowledge quality of life with this drug , but we also have to acknowledge that many people with Duchenne be live with 24 / 7 care need , include my constituent , Dylan Phillips , who live at the excellent care home in Glenbervie . do my hon . friend agree that those live with Duchenne in Scotland should be protect as they would be in England under continue healthcare scheme , rather than have to bear the cost of their social care and live on only £ 35 . 90 a week with universal credit and adult disability payment , as they do not qualify for continue healthcare in Scotland ? the important thing for we to consider here be that with only 1 , 100 or 1 , 200 lad and young man in the country live with the disease , and only 500 boy eligible for the treatment , we could at least expect some consistency in approach across the whole of the United Kingdom . to build on that point , I recently meet the parent of a young man in his 20 who absolutely reinforce the need to get givinostat fund properly across the country . I be also strike by how the life of both parent — they be teacher — and their other child be deeply affect by have to support their son and brother . do my hon . friend support my plea to the Minister to reassure my constituent that adult social care service will continue to support people like they , so that their life can be enrich ? it be really important that we remember the parent , family and carer — the big support network around these boy . it seem to be such a small thing that we need to do from the point of view of the NHS . there be some very good example : Leicester royal infirmary be lead the way as the first hospital to dose a patient . however , as we have hear , some large specialist child ' s hospital in many area have be slow to commit , and only a few have actually start dose patient , although some be still work to make givinostat available . the barrier that we hear about be a lack of capacity and resource constraint . clinic say that they need small amount of additional consultant time for pharmacy support and extra blood test , but really , in the context of the number of blood test that be carry out in the NHS on a daily basis , this number be really quite small . however , some trust still insist on tell family that they can not deliver the treatment because of that . give that some trust can and some can not , I would like to hear from the Minister what we might do to even out the service across the country . some trust have express concern that after start patient on givinostat , the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence might subsequently not approve it at its upcoming meeting in July , and trust would have to withdraw the treatment . well , they would not need to do so : Italfarmaco , the previously mention pharmacy company , have make it clear that in the event of a negative decision from NICE , it will continue to provide givinostat for those already enrol on the early - access programme for as long as it be deem clinically beneficial to the patient . continuity of supply letter have be sign between hospital take part in the early - access programme and the company to ensure that this be in line with NHS England guidance . there be two reason now to accelerate the roll - out before NICE ' s decision in July . the first be that every day and every week make a difference to these young lad ; the second be that every lad who get on that programme before July will be guarantee this treatment for the rest of their life , if it be not approve by NICE . when I meet Benjamin , Jack and Eli , I have already disappoint Eli by not be able to introduce he to Sam Fender , so I think I would try to redeem myself . I say to they , " look , I ' ve come to see you , but clearly , when you come to Parliament , you didn ' t want to meet the Member for Stockton North . who would you most like to meet ? " . they all say they would like to meet the Secretary of State for Health , not primarily because he could help they with their disease , but apparently they like he — he be a very popular Member of Parliament . I say , " I ' ll see if I can sort that out , " and I do manage to sort it out . the Secretary of State very generously give a lot of his time — I think his private office think he have vanish off the face of the earth , because he have a great time chat to Benjamin , Jack and Eli . I know that his intervention really cheer they up , but it also give they hope for their future . I want sincerely to thank the Secretary of State for Health for his generosity in share his time on that day and for the difference that he make to those boy . I turn to my request of the Minister . in the short term , what these family need be for hospital with specialist neuromuscular service across the whole of the United Kingdom — in England , Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland — to implement the early - access programme swiftly , and for it to be roll out to non - ambulant patient , too . the free availability of the drug from the manufacturer mean that cost alone be not the barrier here ; the barrier be bureaucracy . my simple ask to the Minister be to act with the urgency need to roll out the medicine across the country as quickly as possible . every day and every week matter — the lad with Duchenne do not have time to wait . it be a real pleasure to respond to this move debate . I know that many people with Duchenne muscular dystrophy and their family will have want to tune in to hear what be say this afternoon . I thank member who have contribute in different way to the debate . in particular , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Stockton North ( Chris McDonald ) , who secure this debate and advocate so powerfully for these family . he really bring to life the experience of Benjamin , Jack and Eli , and I commend he for do so . I first acknowledge the profound impact that this debilitate disease have on those live with it , and their family , and the urgent need for new and effective treatment . as have be say , my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care hear at first hand from people affect by this condition early this year , when he attend an event host by Duchenne UK . he meet many young patient and listen to what they say about the challenge that they face . as we all know , meet family and individual from our constituency leave a long - last effect on we , and it be important that we continue to meet they . timely and equitable access to innovative medicine for the treatment of DMD and other rare disease mention today be of the utmost importance . the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence be the independent body responsible for assess whether new licensed medicine can be recommend for routine use in the NHS , base on a thorough assessment of their clinical effectiveness and cost - effectiveness . through this process , many thousand of patient , include those with rare disease , have be able to benefit from effective new treatment at price that represent value to the NHS . NICE have be able to recommend two medicine for the treatment of DMD : ataluren , recommend in 2023 , and vamorolone , which be recommend in January this year and be now available on the NHS to around 1 , 700 eligible patient , in line with NICE ' s recommendation . as my hon . friend have say , NICE be appraise givinostat , and the first NICE committee meeting be schedule for July this year . if the medicine be recommend , the NHS in England will be legally require to fund it . I be aware that a small number of patient in the UK have be receive treatment with this drug through a company - lead early access programme , establish by the pharmaceutical company Italfarmaco , as we have hear . it be important to note that participation in these programme be decide at NHS trust level , and although the drug be free to patient take part in it and to the NHS , NHS trust must still cover administration cost and provide clinical resource to deliver the EAP . NHS England have publish guidance on free - of - charge medicine scheme , such as the givinostat EAP , provide advice on financial , administrative and clinical risk . NHS England can not , however , centrally direct NHS trust to participate in company sponsor eap like this one , or in any other private activity . to issue any form of national direction around participation in eap would both pre - empt and undermine the role of NICE , whose purpose be to advise the NHS on whether particular treatment should be make routinely available on the NHS . even when there be an agreement that a company will continue to provide a drug free of charge in the event of a negative decision by NICE , participate trust remain liable to cover the significant cost of deliver that service , include the cost of the clinical resource and staff time need . that would be outside their funding allocation and in addition to pay for any subsequent NICE - recommend treatment that they would be mandate to fund . I thank the Minister for her response , to which I be listen very carefully . I appreciate her point that it would be inappropriate for the Department of Health and Social Care to direct what trust should do , but what we have hear from the trust be that they would like to issue this drug , but have certain issue and problem . perhaps it might simply be a matter of the Department give help and support , and facilitate information - sharing between trust that have make this work and those that have not . perhaps it could be more encouragement than direction . I thank my hon . friend for that constructive suggestion . we need to wait to see how the NICE recommendation go in July . with this disease and so many other , it be important to share learning and information , and trust should be encourage and support in do so . we will work with he on that constructive recommendation . I understand my hon . friend ' s concern about the fact that non - ambulant patient be not yet able to access givinostat , but it be important to note that the eligibility criterion for participation in the early access programme have be determine by the pharmaceutical company . nhs trust that decide to participate in the EAP must only provide treatment in line with the criterion , which state that patient must be ambulant . a clinical trial be be carry out by the pharmaceutical company to evaluate the safety and tolerability of the drug in non - ambulant patient , and to far explore the efficacy of the drug in this population . I know that for the patient and family affect , it will be disappointing to hear that there be no access to the drug for ambulant patient before a nice decision , or for non - ambulant patient prior to clinical trial be conclude . I want to assure my hon . friend that we have arrangement in place to support rapid access to new medicine . will the Minister give way ? I will not ; I want to finish in the time available , and I think member want to hear the full response . outside of company - lead eap , there be establish route for patient to get access to new , innovative medicine prior to they be license . the early access to medicine scheme , or EAMS , help give people in the UK with life - threaten or seriously debilitate condition early access to new medicine that be not yet license where there be a clear unmet medical need . EAMS be support by key partner , include the MHRA , NICE and NHS England , and be a key part of this Government ' s commitment to accelerate patient access to innovative , life - change treatment , in support of the UK ' s position as a global leader in life science . in fact , since the scheme launch in 2014 , over 50 medicine , include for this disease , have benefit from be access early through EAMS . the innovative medicine fund have also make available £ 340 million of ringfenced funding for the NHS to fund early access to medicine that NICE have recommend with manage access . through this process , license treatment that demonstrate substantial clinical promise but still have significant uncertainty around their clinical and cost - effectiveness can be fund . further evidence be then collect on the drug for a define period of time . that be consider by NICE in determine whether the drug can be recommend for routine nhs funding . the Secretary of State have be clear that if givinostat be recommend by NICE in draft guidance , NHS England should aim to work with the pharmaceutical company to provide early funding through the innovative medicine fund . this could potentially speed up access by up to five month , and the treatment could be fund as soon as this summer , if recommend . this scope of this debate be wide than just access to new medicine . it be important to note that while rare disease be individually rare , they be collectively common . one in 17 people will be affect by a rare condition over their lifetime . the UK rare disease framework outline four priority , base on engagement with the rare disease community . they be : help patient to get a final diagnosis fast , increase awareness of rare disease among healthcare professional , well co - ordination of care , and improve access to specialist care , treatment and drug . in England , we publish a rare disease action plan annually . these detail the specific step we be take to meet the share priority of the framework . I be pleased to highlight the 2025 England action plan , which be publish in February this year on Rare Disease Day . one such action be review the effectiveness of early access scheme , such as the early access to medicine scheme , the innovative licensing and access pathway , and the innovative medicine fund . they be all design to help make innovative treatment available early to patient who need they . we be specifically consider how well they support access to treatment for people live with rare disease like Duchenne . NHS England , NICE and MHRA will meet annually to continue to discuss progress on these scheme . these meeting will include representative from patient advocacy group and from industry , and clinical researcher , and the next one will happen in the summer . manage a complex rare condition can be challenging , and it often mean interact with many different specialist and provider of health and social care . it can mean travel across the country to access highly specialist care from expert . all of that can add up to a significant emotional and physical burden , and it can deepen inequality . co - ordination of care can minimise this burden on patient and their carer , and it can ensure that healthcare professional work together to provide the good possible care , as we have discuss this evening . in the 2025 action plan , we have introduce a new action to incentivise provider to run clinic for multi - system disorder , in order to reduce the number of appointment and improve co - ordination of care for family . the NHS be also work to include the definition of " co - ordination of care " that be set out in the CONCORD — co - ordinate care of rare disease — study in all new and revised NHS service specification for patient with rare disease . I recognise how hard it be when patient want access to these new treatment . I also recognise the distress and worry it cause , not only to patient , but their family and friend . hon . member have articulate that well on behalf of their constituent this evening . the Government be commit to provide access to the most innovative medicine , but it have to be at a price that provide value for the NHS , and it have to be clinically safe and effective . that be why we be work hard with industry , NICE and MHRA to make that happen . I know that my hon . friend the Member for Stockton North will continue to work with the Government and provider to make that happen . I be grateful for the opportunity to respond to this debate on such an important issue . question put and agree to . House adjourn .