business without Debate Spoliation Advisory Panel Resolved , that an Humble Address be present to his Majesty , that he will be graciously pleased to give direction that there be lay before this House a Return of the Report from the Right Honourable Sir Alan Moses , Chairman of the Spoliation Advisory Panel , date 28 March 2025 , in respect of the painting " Aeneas and his family Fleeing Burning Troy " by Henry Gibbs now in the possession of the Tate Gallery . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) I beg to move , that the House sit in private . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 163 ) Chris McDonald Tristan Osborne Stuart Anderson Harriett Baldwin Dawn Butler Ellie Chowns Feryal Clark Liam Conlon Jeremy Corbyn Claire Coutinho Neil Coyle Harriet Cross Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Stephen Doughty Luke Evans Mark Ferguson James Frith Lilian Greenwood Amanda Hack Emma Hardy Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Diana R . Johnson Sojan Joseph Alicia Kearns Laura Kyrke - Smith Noah Law Clive Lewis Jerome Mayhew Kerry McCarthy Jim McMahon Julie Minns Gagan Mohindra Grahame Morris Joy Morrissey James Murray Rebecca Paul Stephanie Peacock Luke Pollard Ellie Reeves Mark Tami Alison Taylor Fred Thomas Anna Turley Andrew Western Gen Kitchen Taiwo Owatemi the House divide : Ayes 0 , Noes 44 . question accordingly negative . water Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . around 50 year ago , Margaret Thatcher ' s revolution tear up the rulebook on political and economic management . she rewrote it with a single unwavering principle : that the pursuit of profit would serve the public good , even when it come to vital public service — even when it come to water . we often say that society stand on the shoulder of giant , but giant cast long shadow , and Thatcherism ' s shadow loom dark over our water system today . whether we see ourselves stand on her shoulder or trap in her shadow , one thing be undeniable : she prove that the world can be make differently . and if it can be make differently once , it can be make differently again . that , as the brilliant anthropologist David Graeber understand , be the hidden truth of the world . it be something we create and can choose to create anew . we can do it well . today , I want to show this House and this country that water be the lens through which we can imagine something well — a well way of run our economy , a well way of safeguard our environment and a well way of empower the public , for whom democracy supposedly exist . but that require something very difficult : it require we to break free from the constraint of our imagination and to let go of the idea that this economic model be all there be or all there ever could be . it sadden I to say that the Government ' s Water ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 perfectly exemplify this failure of imagination . one of its lead proponent have a particular rhetorical flourish they love to use when dismiss call for public ownership of water . they say , " I ' m more interested in the purity of our water than the purity of our ideology . " I love that quote . I love it because it lay bare just how deeply the ideology of privatisation , and all that go with it , have embed itself . so entrenched be it within our collective consciousness that we no long recognise it as an ideology . we no long see it for what it be : a systemic exploitation of a common resource for private gain . instead , it have simply become the natural order of thing . but how much long can this go on ? since the crash of 2008 , this ideology have be falter under the weight of its own contradiction , yet its grip on british politic remain vice - like . austerity , exploitation and corporate price gouging be still treat not as choice but as inevitability . why ? because too many politician on both side of the House refuse to contemplate alternative . for those on the other side of the House — on the Opposition Benches — I get it : this be their ideology . they be defend their class , and I would imagine they would go far still if they could . but on this side of the House , we have no excuse . we should be stand up for our class : working - class people — the public . instead , we wrap their ideology in the language of fiscal responsibility , economic prudence and stewardship of the economy . but it be not fiscal responsibility when we balance the book on broken back . it be not stewardship when the ship have be sell off and the crew leave to drown . it be not prudence . it be power maintenance . I hope the engineer can check that the microphone and speaker be work while I ask a quick question . my hon . friend mention member on this side of the House . there be far more of we on this side since July last year than there be in 2019 , with a very different approach take in our manifesto . do he fear that the shift in tone he be suggest be one of the reason that we do so badly in 2019 but so well last year ? no , I do not . we have a distorted electoral system . bring on proportional representation , because if we have pr , we would have have a different government in 2019 and most definitely in 2017 . sometimes politician have to do what they believe to be right and lead from the front . I think we should lead from the front . I compliment the hon . member on his Bill . to help his argument , there be overwhelming opinion poll support for public ownership of water in 2017 and 2019 , and there still be today . I thank the right hon . member for his point . I will come on to this later , and I hope other member will pick up on it , but the fact that the public be way ahead of this House on the issue of public ownership be one of the reason why so many people be lose faith in the two - party political system . one only have to look at some political party whose member be not in their place — at the Reform party , for example , which have a policy of public ownership of water . yes , its member will privatise the NHS , but they understand how popular this be , and they be ahead of the curve — they be ahead of we on this side . really ? on the issue of water , yes , I would say they be , because whether I like it or not , Reform have a policy for water to be own 50 % by pension company and 50 % by the public . as much as it grieve I to say it , that be a policy of public ownership . they be populist ; they be listen to a popular voice . will my hon . friend give way ? I will make some progress and then give way , and I will also try to keep the volume down a little bit . this be about the maintenance of a political and economic model that be never build to serve the public — a model design to shield the wealth of asset holder , landlord , shareholder , corporation and , yes , privatised water company . but here be the great irony : the very greed , recklessness and contempt of the water industry — its excess — have crack open the door , and through that crack , we glimpse an opportunity . it be an opportunity to shatter the myth of privatisation ' s inevitability , to break free from the narrow , self - impose rule that have cage our Government ' s economic choice , to expose its failure , to challenge its dominance and , above all , to show this country that there be an alternative — an alternative that be democratic , sustainable and run in the interest of the many , not the few . we can do it well . my hon . friend be make a typically impassioned speech . he say the general public be ahead of we . where might that same public be when face with the bill for bring in the nationalisation he be clearly wed to ? furthermore , in the event that we do not have to buy the water industry but seize it , the implication of that seizure will cause an economic collapse . at what point will he take responsibility for either of those scenario when confront a public who be , he say , ahead of we on this issue ? I will obviously come to many of those point later in my speech , but let I make this point now : I do not believe in nationalisation , and this Bill have nothing to do with nationalisation . this be about give the public a say over their water . it be about governance , standard and democracy . will my hon . friend give way ? no , my hon . friend have make his point . on this point ? no , I be go to carry on and make some progress . you make your point . let the public — order . Mr Lewis , I do not believe I be make a point at all . my apology , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I should have say that my hon . Friend make his point . the clock be tick . the climate crisis be no long a distant warning . it be our lived reality . rise drought , creep desertification , deplete aquifer , wildfire , systemic collapse — these be no long projection ; they be the forecast turn fact . prepare for this future and adapt to what be now inevitable have never be more urgent . the evidence be sober . the UK ' s water resource be under mount pressure and not just from the climate emergency , but from rise demand and population growth . expert now project that England could face significant water supply deficit as early as 2034 unless we act decisively . that be not a distant horizon ; it be a little over a decade away . but while the threat have grow , our resilience have shrink , because while the climate crisis have intensify , our water infrastructure have stand still , or , bad , be sell off , hollow out and leave to rot . in the 35 year before privatisation almost 100 reservoir be build ; in the 35 year since privatisation , not one major English reservoir have be build . but it get bad , because in that same period private water company have sell off 25 reservoir without replace one . instead of invest in resilience , they have extract value : £ 72 billion pay out in dividend while pipe leak , river choke , and the public pay the price . my hon . friend the Member for Bury North ( Mr Frith ) ask how we can afford it ; how can we not afford it ? that be not mismanagement ; it be a betrayal . if scientist tell we the climate crisis be an existential threat to humanity and to this country — will my hon . friend give way ? one second . if scientist tell we the climate crisis be an existential threat to humanity and to this country , we must treat it as such : an existential conflict . in that context , the action of these company — sell off reservoir , fail to invest , pollute our water — be not just negligent ; they be act that actively undermine our national water security . in any other existential crisis , we might call that what it be : sabotage . and in a time of national peril , sabotage have another name : treason . let I explain why this matter to I personally . when I serve on tour in Afghanistan back in 2009 — not in a boy band — I experience something utterly alien to I : the gnawing fear of thirst ; not the mild irritation of forget a water bottle , but the deep physical worry that there may not be enough clean water to get through the day . in Britain , we have be bless : water fall from the sky ; it fill our river , it soak our field , and we joke about it — it be part of who we be . but in Afghanistan there be no humour ; only heat , dust and desperation . there I see child trek mile through the desert , not for food , not for money , but to beg for clean bottled water . once we have see that , and once we have feel that fear , we can never take water for grant again . we never again believe it be something we can waste or pollute or privatise without consequence . that be why I have bring forward this Bill : because anger be not enough ; outrage , no matter how justified , will not fix the pipe , stop the sewage or fill the reservoir . we need a plan . we need a strategy . we need a future . we can do it well . my Water Bill deliver that . it set out the high standard our country deserve and the democratic governance our water system desperately need . first , it establish clear , ambitious target to stop the sewage in our river and on our beach , to restore our water to high ecological and chemical standard , and to deliver universal , affordable access to water as a basic human right — a right we have never have before in this country . it demand a system design not just to extract profit but to adapt , to build resilience in the face of climate change , and to harness nature - base solution that work with the environment , not against it . secondly , it transform governance . the Bill introduce representation for worker and local community on the board of water company . it give voting right to employee and customer , so that those who use and maintain a system have a real say in how it be run . water be not a commodity but a common good , and those who depend on it and pay for it should help govern it . thirdly , the Bill lay the foundation for a democratic future . it establish a commission on water ownership to advise the Secretary of State on long - term strategy , look at international good practice , especially in OECD country , where public water ownership be the norm , not the exception . crucially , it create a citizen ' assembly on water ownership to bring the public into the process , to deliberate , debate and decide how we can govern this most precious of resource . the public care , but how do I know that ? I know because a small fraction of they be in the Public Gallery today , have travel here from all over the country ; I know because of the thousand of email that have be send to mps across the House ; and I know because those people will never stop campaign until this injustice be resolve . they know that we can protect something not by sell it off , but by stand up for it , involve people in its care and ensure that it serve the public , today , tomorrow and for generation to come . my Bill offer a pathway out of crisis . it offer control , resilience and democracy . it be not just about clean up our river , but about clean up the system that allow they to be pollute in the first place . privatisation be not just a problem — it be the problem . we can do it well . I can hear some people on the Labour Benches think , " but we have just pass " — you can hear think ? I can now — for my next trick , I can hear think ! I can hear they think , " but we have just pass the Water ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 , clive , so what be you talk about ? " yes , we have , but I be afraid to say it have be water down — [ interruption . ] sorry , I have to get that one in — it be all go so well . the Act do not live up to what be promise , it do not deliver what be need , and it certainly do not live up to its name . do not get I wrong : it be a start . I congratulate my good and hon . friend on make an excellent speech and on advocate for public ownership of water and the opportunity to make thing well . do he agree that the mismanagement of the water company under privatisation be a huge indictment of the whole principle ? in my area , bill be way above inflation and huge dividend be be pay by borrow money . at the very least , should our Government not be look at stop the payment of bonus and share dividend while sewage pollution continue , and we have appal mismanagement of the industry ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . I agree with he wholeheartedly and I be just about to come to that point in relation to what the Water ( Special Measures ) Act do and do not do . it address some of those point , but as we have already discuss , privatisation be not just a problem , but the problem , and it be a big part of why so much have go wrong . unfortunately , the Water ( Special Measures ) Act do not live up to what be promise or what be need , and it certainly do not live up to its name . however , it be a start , and I praise my colleague on the Front Bench , include the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice ( Emma Hardy ) , who have do so much work in this area . unfortunately , the Act be not a solution . remarkably , my Government ' s Water ( Special Measures ) Act do not even define what clean water mean . there be no standard or target — just vague intention hand over once again to a regulatory system that have already fail we and to the company that cause the mess in the first place . it say nothing about well governance , and absolutely nothing about the big , fat , humongous elephant in the room : who own our water ? if we do not deal with ownership , we can not deal with accountability . if we can not deal with accountability , we can forget clean water . no — we must go far on clean water standard , corporate accountability and what happen when company fail . do my hon . and gallant Friend accept that there be increase accountability in the Water ( Special Measures ) Act through the fact that many company in the industry be now rewrite their article of association to ensure that they be accountable not just to shareholder , but to the customer and user of water ? after 35 year of abject failure , it be too little , too late . my Bill would put the final nail in the coffin of this sorry chapter of our country ' s water and water system . stick with the pun , I commend my hon . friend on his gallon of passion ; he be always make wave . he criticise the Government ' s legislation , which be obviously not yet in effect , but do he think that the Cunliffe commission will go any way towards address some of the concern he have outline ? unfortunately , I do not , because again the elephant in the room — who own our water — have be rule out of the Cunliffe commission ' s operational process . it can not actually look at that issue . I have no issue with Sir Jon Cunliffe , but let we not forget that he originate from the Treasury — he probably have Treasury brain . that economic orthodoxy be part of the reason why we be in the place that we be . I do not have so much confidence in the Cunliffe commission , but I do have far more confidence in the People ' s Commission on the Water Sector , which be be run by academic and which will report at the same time . I will be very interested to hear what it say . will my hon . friend give way ? those be the reason why I have bring forward this Bill . the Government ' s Act do none of those thing , but my Bill do . take just one example — order . I believe Mr Lewis probably can not hear intervention , because he be so loud himself . member should intervene loudly if they wish to intervene . I do hear the intervention , but I want to make some progress . take this one example . under this Bill , if a water company breach the term of its licence with a major sewage discharge , it can forget shareholder payout and pile on more debt . if it do it twice , it be in the last chance saloon . after three strike , it be out — licence terminate and on its bike — and those price - gouging , asset - strip , river - kill vulture capitalist outfit will be roll into the sunset without a penny in compensation . what about those water infrastructure asset that they have be sweat for private gain ? they go back into the public realm , thank you very much . if they start whine about debt , do not worry : we will do a full audit of what they invest , what they rack up in debt , what they pay out in dividend and what they stuff into bloated executive pay packet . I will tell you this , Madam Deputy Speaker : I be yet to see a single privatised english water company walk away with anything other than a well - earn spanking and a sharp haircut for its creditor . those asset will belong to the public once again , and we will not pay a penny more than they be worth . I can hear people think , " where will the money come from ? how will you invest in publicly own water without the private sector ? " I will tell they where it have not come from in these past 35 year — I be mind - read again . will my hon . friend give way ? I will just make some progress , and then I will give way . I be on a roll . let I tell the House where the money have not come from for these past 35 year . it have not come from private shareholder or long - term thinking , and it certainly have not come from some mythical well of benevolent capitalism . the private company have put in less than nothing ; in fact , they have rack up more than £ 60 billion in debt . Thames Water have pay more than £ 7 . 2 billion in dividend since privatisation , and be now £ 15 . 2 billion in debt and counting — work that out . now , it be try to plug the hole with a £ 3 billion emergency loan that will cost 10 % in annual interest . that be more than half a billion pound a year , just for interest payment , courtesy of our bill . that money will not build a reservoir , fix a pipe or clean a river , but it will keep a rotten system afloat for a little long . my hon . and gallant Friend make an impassioned case for public ownership — something that , in the right context , I be sure member on all side of the House can celebrate . on the point about the cost of financing to the public , though , do he agree that while there be some serious indiscretion in part of the industry , such as in Thames Water ' s case , this conversation about the appropriate financing model would be well entertain at a time when the cost of capital in the private water industry be not low than the cost of public sector borrowing , on which , of course , we be in a very difficult situation ? the cheap borrowing in the country , without a doubt , be public sector borrowing . the private water industry , which have have 35 year to sort this mess out , be not go to find investment . it be up to its eyeball in debt . it be rely on a 50 % increase in our bill by 2030 , if we include inflation , and that be in the middle of a cost of living crisis . how can we justify that ? the answer be that we can not . the day after the seizure of public asset that my hon . friend be describe , billion and billion of pound of debt will come with it . what do he propose to do with that debt , other than refinancing , which be exactly where we be at now with the industry requirement to refinance the debt to try to keep bill down ? instead , he be advocate that the public purse take on that private debt . at the beginning of my now seemingly rather long speech , I think I refer to a failure of imagination . ask what Margaret Thatcher would have do when she be face with similar problem . she would have fight her way through it . she change the very fabric of our economy , our democracy and our politic , and she make it work . we can do the same , because the public be behind we . they want this to work . rise — rise — I will make some progress . let we recap , because I do not want to go on too long ; I want to conclude , if I can . that money from Thames Water — that half a billion pound in interest payment — will keep a rotten system afloat for just a little long . the myth of privatisation be that the private sector will act in the long - term interest of the british public because it want to turn a profit . that be preposterous , as be prove by the state of our water , and exhibit a be Thames Water . we can now turn to the question of where the investment will come from . under public ownership , it will come from the only place it ever should have — from we , the public — and every penny of it will go back into the system . it will go into the pipe , the river , the sea we swim in and the water we drink . there will be a direct relationship between what we pay and what we get , with no offshore dividend , no bloated bonus and no debt - laden shell game — just clean , accountable , democratic water . when I be in Afghanistan , every soldier have one critical duty : to stay hydrated . to dehydrate be consider a military offence , because it put the soldier and their team at risk . if someone run out of water , we do not debate market or metric ; we share what we have . we have each other ' s back . as the desert - dwell Fremen in James Herbert ' s novel " Dune " believe : " a man ' s flesh be his own ; the water belong to the tribe " . it be time our water return to the tribe , to the people , to the public . we can do well ; we must , and with this Bill , we will . I commend it to the House . rise — before I call the next member , I trust that the microphone have be adjust to their normal level . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for that hospital pass . I will make a note not to follow the hon . member for Norwich South ( Clive Lewis ) again , if I can help it . I will just try to do a good job , and perhaps not to speak for quite as long . I be delighted to be here to discuss and support this Bill , and I thank the hon . member for bring it forward . it will be no surprise to anyone here that I be absolutely in favour of this Bill to fix the despicable situation of our waterway . to do that , we need to bring water back into public ownership . this issue be so important to I and my Green colleague that we table the first early - day motion of this Parliament on the public ownership of water . we highlight that sewage be " be discharge into english waterway for more than 3 . 6 million hour in 2023 … that water company in England have incur debt of more than £ 64 billion and pay out £ 78 billion in dividend " — note the similarity of those number — " since they be privatised debt - free in 1989 " . we point out that " water company pay out £ 1 . 4 billion in dividend in 2022 , even as 11 of they be fine in the same year for miss performance target " . privatisation be just not work . the experiment have fail . we be one of the only country in the world with a fully privatised water system , which show that it be a bad idea . water be a natural monopoly . for example , people who live in the south - west , as I do , can not choose to be supply by Yorkshire Water . I be not sure that they would want to , but my point be that when their provider give a poor service and charge extortionate sum , they can not take their business elsewhere . there be no fair competition . you get what you get , and you can not get upset about it — but we be upset about it , because sewage be be pump into our water , and we be pay through the nose for the privilege , all while shareholder profit . on the point about take business elsewhere , do the Greens have a policy on how to perpetually nationalise an industry ? one of the difficulty be that if we nationalise now , a future Government can do something very different . what be the Greens ' position on that ? one of the reason why I support the Bill bring forward by the hon . member for Norwich South be that it use the tool of a citizen ' assembly to ask the public how they think the system should work , and to explore different option , rather than predetermine the exact model . for clarity , the Green party and I support public ownership of public service , but that do not necessarily mean nationalisation . before the water company be privatised , they be own regionally , and I think that would be a sensible model this time . I also think that the citizen ’ assembly could look into other form of public ownership , such as co - operative . rise — rise — I will make some progress , rather than have a long back and forth . we be pay through inflate bill , pay with our health , and now we may be pay with our public money , as the Government have say that they be ready to bail out Thames Water , which be privatise in 1989 with no debt . since then , it have rack up £ 14 . 7 billion in debt and at the same time — note the similarity of these number — pay out £ 10 . 4 billion to its shareholder . if that be not a scam , I do not know what be . privatisation be suppose to keep price down , but it have do the opposite . More than one third of people ' s bill be use to pay interest on debt , or to pay dividend to shareholder . the Government be take some step to improve the situation . I absolutely welcome those step , as far as they go , but these issue be not likely to go away without our consider the option , or look into the possibility , of bring water company back into public hand . that be why I be disappointed to learn that the Government ' s supposedly independent commission on the water sector regulatory system be not be allow — despite be independent — to consider public ownership as one of the option , though I note with interest the establishment of the people ' s commission on the water sector , which will look into this option as part of its broad scope . this be a subject on which I value the hon . Lady ' s opinion . my great concern about this Bill be the people ' s commission , and I wonder if she could assuage my concern . I fear that set up an alternative representative body impinge on the right of this Chamber , which be the prime expression of democracy in the UK , and that the two could be bring into conflict . it be a big concern for I . be there anything that she can say to assuage my concern ? if hon . member of this House feel threaten by the setting up of a citizen ' assembly in order to gather view , that may be an indication of the weakness of the democracy that we have in this place . I really value the contribution that citizen ' assembly can make . they have be use in other country , notably Ireland . they be not a replacement for the House of Commons , but they can add valuable extra detail . rise — I think my hon . friend be about to chip in with an example . do my hon . friend agree that we have the example of the citizen ' assembly on climate change , which be establish jointly by six Select Committees of this House a couple of year ago ? I agree with my hon . friend , and I would also point to the citizen ’ assembly set up by Bristol city council . citizen ' assembly be particularly strong at look in depth at detailed , specific question , rather than broad topic to do with how the entire country be run . I see citizen ' assembly not as replace the role of the House of Commons , but as supplement it valuably . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will make some progress . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I ask for your direction ? this be a debate , and there be no time limit . be there any way of press a member to answer a question during a debate , or to at least allow a debate to occur ? I have a follow - up question that the hon . Member seem reluctant to allow . the hon . Gentleman know that it be entirely up to the Member who be speak to decide whether they wish to take or reject an intervention , just as it be up to member attempt to make an intervention to either persist in the attempt or not . we will let the debate continue , but the hon . Gentleman be right to say that there be plenty of time . the provision of water — will the hon . Lady give way ? one last time , though the hon . Member be push it . I be very grateful . the reason why I persist be that the issue of a citizen ’ assembly have come up . my previous question be : how could a Government — any government — bind the action of a future democratically elect Government ? a citizen ' assembly do not have the power to do that . I be intrigue ; how can the Greens believe that a citizen ' assembly could bind a future Government , of any political persuasion , to not re - privatise our water industry ? of course a current Government can not bind a future government on a decision like that indefinitely , and I be not suggest that they could , but as I point out , as England be one of very few country on the entire planet with a fully privatised water system , I suspect and hope that if we return to a public system , it would be more likely to stay public , as both elect representative and the public would see that the system perform well when the profit motive be remove . People talk about whether something can be take out of public control and put back into privatisation . of course , Parliament be sovereign and that can always happen , but there be a point about give control to the public . let we take the NHS , which be a public service . any Government in the post - war period could have take the NHS back into privatisation . why do they not do so ? they would not have dare , because it would have be so publicly damaging and politically destructive . that be what would happen with our water . do the hon . member agree ? [ interruption . ] order . may I remind people in the Public Gallery to remain silent ? thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank the hon . gentleman for that helpful reminder about the analogy with the national health service . public ownership be not just essential for social and environmental justice ; it be also , in this situation , a pragmatic necessity . it just make sense , which be why almost everyone else do thing that way . with water back in public hand , the Government could invest in fix the crumble infrastructure and clean up our river , or prevent they from get into such a state in the first place , without haemorrhage money to shareholder and allow it to spill over — sorry ; I couldn ' t resist — into fat cat ’ salary . People be struggle to put food on the table and heat their home . we can not allow water company to contribute to that situation by hike up the bill that everyone have to pay . without real change , we will not stop sewage flow into our river and profit flow into the pocket of shareholder . there be an obvious answer that make both people and the environment the winner : if they so choose , the Government could bring water company back into public hand , to end the profiteering , drive down bill , protect our river , waterway and coastline , and catch up with the public who , as the hon . member for Norwich South point out , be way ahead of the Labour Government on this issue and much else . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Norwich South ( Clive Lewis ) on introduce the Bill . whatever my position on its detail and on the history of what have happen with our water industry , we would all agree on how important it be to have a proper debate about water . unlike many of the member present today , I have the privilege of have serve in the previous Parliament , during which water and sewage discharge be constant topic of conversation . it be absolutely right that we talk about that and that we act . I be now proud to be in the party of a Government who have begin to act on the big challenge face we when it come to water . I congratulate my hon . friend , too , on the enormous passion that he bring to all the issue that he care about . nobody could say that he do not believe passionately in what he be talk about today . he be right to shine a light on the failure of the water industry — the profit that people be make while organisation such as Surfers Against Sewage have to deal with the very real issue of paddle through sewage . I be try to be polite . we have to go right back in time to see why the system be set up . the water company be privatised to avoid taxpayer investment and to get the private sector to pay . that of course mean the need for dividend , and we have see how that have work . my hon . friend talk about the last chance saloon — " two strike and you ' re out " — for the water company . his Bill suggest that on the second occasion , the state would take the company ' s asset and run it , but the taxpayer would still pick up an enormous bill for that . it be important to reflect on the context that we find ourselves in today , whether we be talk about investment in water , our railway , the 700 , 000 pupil in school not fit for purpose , or in our crumble hospital — include the 40 build with reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete , which I visit during the last Parliament . those will be unfit for purpose within the next five year and need money to be invest in they . we need to invest money in our road . it be great that the Government be put money into pothole — that be a start . however , we know that we need more than that . I cycle , and pothole cause I enormous grief . I be constantly break a spoke . a speak be only about £ 1 . 50 , but get a wheel true — I be not expert enough to do that myself — cost a lot of money . these be issue that be actually hit the pocket of our constituent . it be not about I ; many people have these problem . I have have the opportunity to spend a lot of time in Northamptonshire , and I commend my hon . friend the Member for Wellingborough and Rushden ( Gen Kitchen ) , who have fight a tough campaign against pothole in her constituency , underline how poorly the council have manage its road . she have do excellent work to highlight the problem and to challenge and look at the council ' s contract , and that have lead to the Government ' s announcement in just the last week about invest in pothole — they have take her blueprint from Wellingborough and be apply it to the country . however , all this cost money . we have road , railway , the water industry , school and hospital all in dire need . we need that money to go into the NHS to reduce waiting list , which have reduce for five month in a row . we be see those waiting list go down . constituent of mine be in desperate strait — anyone who have a bit of money be pay privately to have their hip replace . the constituent I visit who do not have that kind of money be on a long , slow waiting list while their health deteriorate , unable to work or go about their life . we have to see this issue in the context of all the money that need to be spend . a year ago , I produce a list of what I call the big nastie . I have highlight some of they . the list also include the fact that we have not yet in this country decommission a single nuclear submarine , which be not just a monetary cost . it need to be do , but we be find it hard to bring submarine into port to repair they . it have be leave for decade , and have now fall to this Government to resolve . I gather that the first one be now be decommission — thank , again , to a Labour Government be in power . we have real problem at the animal health centre in Weybridge , where we do not have space to deal with two zoonotic disease at the same time . to deal with these difficult disease , the centre have special facility so that no contaminant can escape . if we be hit by two zoonotic disease in this country , we would be in a catastrophic situation . this situation be leave by the previous Government , who do not deal with it for 14 year . then we have Porton down . in 2017 , it be go to be move and rebuild . again , the facility deal with some of the most difficult scientific issue ; there could be catastrophic effect if it be not there to deal with they . what have happen ? there have be no movement at all . again , it have fall to this Government to spend something . around £ 700 million have be spend , but nothing have be achieve . this Government have pick up the piece . I thank my hon . friend for make a powerful speech in this debate . there be a few thing to say about the cost . first , we would control the asset . the asset would come off the balance sheet , which would be one mitigate factor . secondly , throughout the post - war period , with British Leyland , Railtrack in 1945 , coal , steel , gas , civil aviation and even the Bank of England , we pay less than the market value . as I explain at the beginning , this be about a mindset . we can do an audit of what the company have take out — what money they have extract from our economy — and then we can pay they an appropriate rate and return . it may well be that they be pay nothing , but they may get something . their creditor may take a haircut , but , frankly , that be well than our constituent take a continuous haircut with their bill . I thank my hon . friend for that point . I hear his passion and his helpful iteration of those historic example . however , I would also say that we need to be clear about who the shareholder be — very often , they be our pension fund . pension fund trustee have a fiduciary duty to ensure they be maximise the income for those pensioner . if that do not happen , we know that , effectively , the taxpayer pick up the tab . a reality of privatisation be a drive to have a shareholder society . we can argue about whether that be the right or wrong thing to do , and I think we would probably agree in many respect on that . however , that be the reality of the situation now . early today , before the House be sit , I be on a call about constituent who have lose money in an investment and be in a desperate situation . in that case , it be because of criminal activity by a fraudster . their life saving have go . the people who have invest and buy those share , often very humble family who have work hard all their life , need some compensation . a student debate society might be tempt to say , " let ' s take it all back , and forget about the impact , " but we can not forget about the impact , because it often fall on low - pay , hard - work people who be taxpayer too — they would end up pay a double whammy . I thank the Chair of the Treasury Committee for her wise word about the risk that shareholder take when they invest . have she consider the alternative ? at the moment , we be talk about privatisation versus nationalisation , but the alternative be mutualisation , where a water company ' s customer would own and control the company on their own behalf . it seem there be an awful lot of mind reader in the Chamber today , because the hon . Gentleman anticipate my comment . I be proud to be a Labour and Co - operative Member , so I have thought on how , one day , we may be able to move to that nirvana of co - ownership . we have see too often that dividend and bonus be pay without investment in infrastructure , which be where my hon . friend and I would agree . we have a privatisation model that be suppose to deliver investment on the back of people invest in share . in return for get a dividend , there would also be an investment , but we have not see enough of that . of course , under Ofwat rule , water customer bear a share of the cost . in Hackney , under Thames Water , which have be a poster company for the problem in this sector , bill be go up by more than a third . a number of constituent who be very worried about their water bill have write to I just in the last fortnight . when we talk about money in this place , we sometimes talk about million or billion of pound , but £ 100 a month be a great deal of money for many of my constituent . to set that in context , I have a number of fantastic street market in my constituency — one where people can buy fruit and veg , and clothe and underwear at a reasonable price — and I also have the lovely Broadway market , where sourdough bread cost about £ 5 a loaf . I have constituent who do not have £ 5 leave at the end of the week , let alone at the end of the month — those be the margin that people be work with . water bill be therefore a significant issue , which be another reason why I be delighted to be here today , support by colleague of all party who want to talk about the challenge of water . on the face of it , the argument for nationalisation sound appeal to many , but there be a cost — and it be not a hidden cost : to those who buy share in good faith , to those pension fund that be invest , and in the upheaval of turn around these company . where would we get the people to run a nationalise water company ? it be likely to be the same executive , if they would take the pay cut . there be not a wealth of expertise . I spend a decade examine the work of Whitehall , and there be some excellent civil servant in this country who have do amazing work — many of the civil servant who do not do such amazing work appear before the Public Accounts Committee — but find somebody overnight with the technical and management expertise to run a major water company be a challenge . to take the corollary , I be passionate about see insourced service in our hospital , but after have intense conversation with executive at my local hospital , I know that , when the public sector have not do something for many year , it take a very long time to build up the expertise . let we take catering . if hospital do not cater well , they could kill patient , so they need to make sure they have the management structure in place to deliver those skill . it be the same with water company — it be not as easy as say , " one day it ' s private , and the next day it ' s national . no problem at all . " the upheaval would be immense , so we need a measured plan , and I think this Government have begin to develop that plan , for all the reason I will outline . I will talk a little about what the Government will do to improve the situation , and then I will talk about the Bill , but I want first to touch on the comment of the hon . member for Bristol Central ( Carla Denyer ) . I be very interested in her passionate commitment to citizen ' jury . she have be elect , which be a privilege as we all know , to represent her constituent in this place , yet month after her election , she want to pass responsibility for this big , difficult decision to a citizen ' jury , rather than take responsibility for that decision as an elect MP . I think it be important to correct the misapprehension among some Government Members , which may arise from an inadvertent misreading of the Bill . clause 4 , on the citizen ' assembly on water ownership , at subsection ( 4 ) , simply say : " the Commission must publish the recommendation of the Citizens ' Assembly . " it do not say , " this House will hereby delegate responsibility for make decision about water sector ownership to the Citizens ' Assembly . " it simply suggest set up a structure , which , as I say , have already be use by the House to provide the opportunity for the general public to consider in depth an issue of complexity . my point be clear . just as , many year ago , a certain Mr Ratner famously talk about the price of a prawn sandwich in Marks & Spencer and the price of earring in his store , people do not want to be on the board of Marks & Spencer to get a decent prawn sandwich ; they just want to be able to buy a decent prawn sandwich , and while my political foundation be in devolution , neighbourhood structure , work and listen to people , ultimately we must responsibility ourselves . I be look at clause 4 , as the hon . Lady highlight . I have be around for many year , but one of the challenge about citizen ' jury be that while we can have this engagement , they be lengthy and costly , and we know that not everybody attend the whole time . how would we select people ? there be many challenge in set they up . rise — Order . I remind the hon . member that intervention should be short . I remind the House briefly that all these issue be well investigate and understand , and the House have previously use this mechanism effectively . well , in my experience of 20 year in the House , this system have be use once , and that be in 2019 , by a selection of Select Committees , not by the Government of the day . I be aware that the first debate about citizen ' jury be 30 or so year ago , and there be many challenge to deliver they . do my hon . friend agree that one of the concern with citizen ' assembly be about gain the confidence of the public ? when some people see opinion poll , they say , " well , I wasn ' t interview , so I have no confidence in it . " secondly , there would be no power to compel someone to be on a citizen ' assembly , so how could people have confidence in a body that contain only those who be willing to take part ? absolutely . I think we would all agree that we talk all the time to constituent , whether on doorstep or at public meeting and other forum , because that be our job . I say to constituent every week when I be on their doorstep , " I be here because I need your expertise . I can ' t do my job without you . " but it be a cumbersome task to be on a citizen ' assembly as it require people to devote a great deal of time , and only a certain subset of society have the time to do that . many of my constituent be work three or four job and struggle to survive . they do not have the time to do that , but their voice need to be hear , too . I declare experience in this area in that , through Herefordshire council , I set up a citizen ' assembly . a process call sortition be use to ensure a fully representative sample . participant be pay for their time so that people of all socioeconomic background can participate , and additional effort be make to ensure that under - represent group can participate . will the hon . Lady acknowledge that such an institution might be more representative of the general public than this House , in which two third of mp be elect by only a third of the electorate ? I will be careful not to try your patience , Madam Deputy Speaker . we could have an endless debate about the difference between select people through the sortition process — I be well aware of how that work — and how our electoral system work , but , in the end , we face our electorate , and they can reject we . many colleague have be sack on television at 4 o ' clock in the morning because the electorate reject they or their party . there be no same power over a citizen ' s assembly . let we be clear . perhaps I should talk in a bit more detail about clause 4 of the Bill as propose . subsection ( 1 ) say : " within four month of be establish under subsection ( 3 ) , the Commission on Water must establish a Citizens ' Assembly on Water Ownership … to … consider different model of water ownership , and … make recommendation for reform to water ownership and governance . " it be deeply patronising to suggest to my constituent that they would be guarantee the same job after serve on a citizen ' assembly . we can not force or compel McDonald ' s to retain people on zero - hour contract , which , thankfully , the Government will scrap . but be it not typical of the Green party to shirk responsibility to a citizen ' assembly ? on housing , wind farm and onshore energy , we see the Green party shirk responsibility in Bristol , Brighton and the east of England , and this similar situation be a classic example . I certainly recognise the point about job security . many of my constituent work three or four job and be struggle to survive . I would like to inform the House that the Employment Rights Bill outlaw exploitative zero - hour contract , and that be something that member — especially Government Members — should talk about constantly . absolutely , and that be a yet another example of why it be good to have a Labour Government . I thank my hon . friend for highlight clause 4 ( 1 ) ( a ) , in particular . I be quite disappointed by the response from the hon . member for Bristol Central ( Carla Denyer ) to my very sincere intervention . I think we have hear that many member have make their mind up about the form of ownership , and they be determined to have nationalisation . so if the citizen ’ assembly come to a conclusion that be not in favour of nationalisation , I would have to ask people whether they agree with the citizen ' assembly — in which case , what be the point of this House ? — or whether they would ignore the citizen ’ assembly , in which case , what be the point of the citizen ' assembly ? that be one of the challenge : we can set up this lengthy and expensive process and then it do not necessarily hold any sway . I be go through the provision in clause 4 , and as we get into the detail of the citizen ' assembly , I sense that there be an appetite to discuss that . perhaps I can continue my remark before I take any further intervention , or we will be here all day — but I suppose that that be what today be for . the commission would support the work of the citizen ' assembly . clause 4 ( 2 ) state that " the Commission on Water must undertake a public consultation on water ownership in which all individual who use water and sewerage service in England and Wales can participate . " Hallelujah to that — to a strong , well - found public consultation ! we can all go out to our constituency and do roundtable , knock on door and ask people what they have to say about water . however , I think that most of we have have quite a strong indication about that from our constituent , in our mailbox and from our time on doorstep — I have not get into all the issue in the waterway in Hackney , which be utterly appal in relation to sewage discharge . we need to make sure that we have that public consultation . if the hon . member be so aware of the overwhelming public support for public ownership of water , as she just indicate from the level of concern in her constituency , I be confused about why she be so dogged in her pursuit of continued privatisation . I urge the hon . Lady to listen to what I say . I do not say that I have people say overwhelmingly that they want public ownership — certainly not . they be say that there be a problem , and say , " you lot be in government . you need to sort it out . " over the last 20 year that I have be in this place , and particularly in the last Parliament , there have be endless discussion about how to resolve this situation , and stasis in the Government . we now have a Government who have act to begin to tackle some of these huge challenge . I give real credit to the Minister , who have engage massively with member across the House on this . she be absolutely aware of the issue , partly because many of we across the House have lobby she , because our constituent have lobby we . I do not think there be doubt about the problem ; the issue be about the solution . we should absolutely have a big public consultation , but that be to inform the work of the citizen ' assembly . clause 4 ( 3 ) state that the citizen ' assembly must " be compose of a randomly select representative sample of user of water and sewerage service in England and Wales , and … consider any matter which the Commission refer to it in relation to water ownership . " I want to be clear that that will be a randomly select representative sample of user , and the Bill be silent on the model . I appreciate what the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) highlight — that there be a science to do this — but the Bill be silent on how it would be do . to return to the construction of citizen ' assembly , I take on board the point about the concept that be be use locally , but when one have to travel 10 minute to a meeting on an evening after work , it be a very different order of magnitude — will the hon . Gentleman give way ? member can not intervene on an intervention . be you near your point ? I be on the cusp of it . there be cost implication of ask member of the public to travel to another part of the country , and these thing be inevitably in London . as somebody whose constituency be 250 mile from London , I would be concern about member of my community be leave out of such a consultation . order . before the hon . Lady respond to that intervention , I know it be Friday but you do not intervene on an intervention , and intervention be short . they be not speech . I think my hon . friend make some important point . we have see from citizen ' jury , include in Ireland , which have a well - wear route for use these for their referenda , that people do drop out and do not always attend , because life get in the way . that be why we be elect : to make hard decision and defend difficult issue . we can not make the world like the land of milk and honey — certainly not after the inheritance we receive from the last government after 14 year of mismanagement . we have very big challenge and we need to tackle they . it would put heavy pressure on citizen ' jury to do that . the key point here be that , whatever the good practice , the Bill do not go into the detail of it , so we can not assume that the good practice that the hon . member for North Herefordshire have highlight from her constituency be necessarily what would apply — let alone the challenge that other hon . member have raise . turn to the hon . member for Bristol Central , I would be surprised that a member of her party be so willing to pass responsibility over , but then I look at what happen in Brighton when the Greens control Brighton council . I will put aside the rubbish collection issue and the infighting and look at the issue with the i360 — the tower that be now a tourist attraction . the company behind it go bust with over £ 50 million of debt . it be the Green - run council that provide £ 36 million of public money to pay for that vanity project , and in the end taxpayer in Brighton and Hove be leave £ 51 million out of pocket and Brighton and Hove council be leave to pay £ 2 million a year for the foreseeable future . I do not think we need to take any lecture from the Green party about how to manage public money , because when they have be in power , they can not do it . no wonder they want to pass responsibility over to a citizen ' jury rather than take responsibility themselves . I have be divert , but I think it be useful . before I move on to my next point , I will take one more diversion . it be not just the Green party in this country that cause such significant challenge . the demand of the Green party in Germany on the then - government to stop use nuclear energy directly contribute to the reliance on Putin , and Germany be struggle as a result today . the Greens should not be trust with any economy anywhere . Madam Deputy Speaker , I do not want to try your patience , so I will move on from the Green party , because the subject of the debate be the Water Bill that my hon . friend the Member for Norwich South have put forward . I want to talk about the challenge that we be see in water . nobody would argue that there be not a problem we be have to deal with . I take the example of my wonderful constituency of Hackney South and Shoreditch and the amazing resource that be the River Lea . it run through my constituency , start far up beyond London . we do not have the figure for 2024 yet , but in 2023 there be 1 , 060 instance of sewage discharge into the River Lea . that amount to 11 , 502 hour of sewage discharge from storm overflow . if that be not bad enough , it be almost double the figure from 2022 , when sewage be discharge into the River Lea for 5 , 891 hour . it have be get bad . we have be raise this issue in the House , and in the last Parliament not enough happen to tackle it . now , thank goodness , we have a Labour Government who be begin to act and make sure that water company be take into account . the water quality of the Lea have have a damn assessment : an overall classification of bad , fail on chemical standard and bad ecological health . it be a tragedy that we work so hard to get our waterway clean up during the run - up to the 2012 Olympics , which be a major boost to east London , but we now have bad ecological health . on a hot , sunny day on Hackney Marshes — sadly no long in my constituency after the boundary change — people can be see swim in the river , and that be not a place they should be swim . it be one of the most polluted river in the country , but it should be a blue lung for east Londoners . we need to get this problem tackle . the hon . Member be make an important point about river pollution , and she be absolutely right . would she agree that there be also a planning issue ? there be too many paved space , and not enough run - off be available to go into the ground water . we need a holistic approach that include much more assertive planning policy on drainage . otherwise , we end up with sewage in our river during period of heavy rainfall . I thank my right hon . friend for that — I say " Friend " because the right hon . Gentleman and I serve very effectively together in Islington when he be the MP and I be a junior councillor for eight year in his patch , so I know his passion in this area . on run - off , it be interesting that some council be still behind on planning issue , so in some area people be still allow to pave over their front garden , and in other they be expect to put in block for the tyre of vehicle , with drain - away or soakaway around they . we need much more of that . I have be involve in that debate for 30 year , and the right hon . Gentleman have be involve for even long — I bow to his experience — yet we still see challenge in the planning system not allow for that . we await the full detail of the planning change , but I really welcome the Government ' s move to look at plan differently , ensure that we be build this sort of resilience into our area . we have small area of flood risk in my constituency , around the Lea valley , so we need to ensure , if it be appropriate to build home there , that we manage that risk through some of these mitigation . that be very important , because what also happen be that rubbish be wash down from the street to the canal side — we have just talk about the River Lea — and many of my canal dweller be concern , as I be sure be the right hon . Gentleman ' s , about the rubbish that have to be collect . research by Thames21 and University College London show that the amount of faecal e . coli bacteria in the River Lea regularly exceed international standard . it pain I to have to say this , because I love my constituency and think that part of my job be to big it up and tell everyone the great thing about it , but sometimes we just have to call out the problem , unfortunately , and this be a real concern . my constituency be serve by Thames Water , of course . Thames Water discharge sewage into the Thames for more than 300 , 000 hour in 2024 , but what be really shocking be that only four year early sewage be discharge for just under 19 , 000 hour — 18 , 443 hour . we think that be bad and it have exponentially increase , and there be 50 % more sewage than in 2023 when sewage be discharge into the Thames for 196 , 000 hour . London be an international city ; it be unbelievable that our river be so dirty and we need to get this resolve . nationally , none of our river be consider to be in good chemical health accord to the Rivers Trust . that mean every river in England contain chemical that be know to cause harm , and figure publish just yesterday by the Environment Agency reveal that untreated sewage , include human waste , wet wipe and condom , be release into waterway for more than 3 . 62 million hour in 2024 . in 2016 — just eight year before that datum — the comparable figure be 100 , 533 hour . we be see a really big deterioration , and that be why we need to act . I look forward to hear from my hon . friend the Minister about some of the action the Government be take to tackle this . if sewage on its own be not a reason to look at how we tackle water , the problem of security of supply be a very big concern . I have the privilege of chair the Public Accounts Committee for nine year , have also serve on the Committee for long , and in 2020 we find that there be a serious risk that the country will run out of water in the next 20 year . we be not a Committee that tend to use hyperbole ; we be look at the fact . we would build our report on work by the National Audit Office , and we would question witness about it . the timescale for that risk be 20 year , so we be already five year into that programme . my hon . friend the Minister and the Government face a great challenge to try and resolve this in such a short time , because 15 year be not as long as it seem when we be deal with such big issue . security of supply be threaten by increase demand and diminish supply . relevant factor of course include population growth in part of the country , and urbanisation and development . the point of how we deal with this in planning have be raise and it be absolutely vital that water supply be build into new development and the new town the Government be propose and all the housing development that we hope to see . climate change have obviously be a factor as well , as be unsustainable abstraction when water be remove from the natural environment . I will not try your patience , Madam Deputy Speaker , but the issue of chalk stream in this country be a scandal , and once damage they be go forever . we have be rape our environment for water company profit and that have to stop . we have also see growth in water - intensive industry such as data centre , which be cause issue for electricity but also for water , and we need a proper planning process for that . so a lot of this do come back to the Government ' s stance in take a genuinely proactive approach , make sure that planning be not a blocker but actually help deliver the solution we need . in 2022 , the Government update Ofwat ' s strategic policy statement to include an objective for the regulator to " increase resilience " in the long term . in 2024 , the national infrastructure commission recommend that the Government and Ofwat ensure that water company ' plan be sufficient to increase water supply to meet demand for an additional 4 , 800 megalitre per day by 2050 . the number be all very well , but we know there be a big challenge now . the Government will be publish an update national framework for water in the summer — I do not think my hon . friend the Minister ever get a holiday , with the amount of work that she have to do . basically , we have water , but not in the place that we need it . we have not build a reservoir for decade . as a child of the 1976 drought — unbelievable , but true — I remember the impact that have on behaviour . in my case , we do not have standpipe in the street , but many family in this country have to go with a bottle to a standpipe in the street to get their water . water be always a precious commodity , but we really learn that then . we be tell not to leave the tap run when wash up or clean our tooth . I do not want to lecture people , but we should all keep to those habit . I learn those habit about water preservation at the age of seven — I will admit it — and they have never leave I . that be a serious crisis in 1976 , but here we be in 2025 , face many of the same challenge . I do not envy my hon . friend the Minister for the challenge she be seek to address . the Government be act . the Water ( Special Measures ) Act have be introduce and include , quite properly , criminal liability for water executive . they can not hide behind the corporate body and say it be someone else ' s fault ; we have to have people step up . in over a decade on the Public Accounts Committee , I learn that failure be always an orphan . we use to call it " public account tennis " . we would say , " who be in charge ? who be responsible ? " and people would all look at each other , wait to see who would jump forward . introduce criminal liability sound draconian , and it be , but it be vital that those who be head up operation of this importance , and be pay the pay that they be to deliver they , take real responsibility and ensure they have system in place in their organisation . if the buck stop with they , they will take it very seriously . the criminal liability include imprisonment for water executive when company fail to co - operate or obstruct investigation . the Act also introduce a bonus ban for chief executive and senior leader unless high standard be meet on protect the environment , consumer and financial resilience . we can talk more about Thames Water in relation to that in a moment . it also introduce automatic penalty for environmental pollution . it ensure that pollution be be measure in real time , because during the last Parliament it be discover that , for all the talk about measure sewage , it be not be measure in real time . a lot of the indicator be not there , so it be easy to dodge the real number that we be now see with the exponential increase in sewage discharge . the Act introduce an independent water commission as a regulator , which I welcome . the commission be launch in October last year and be chair by the former deputy governor of the Bank of England , Sir Jon Cunliffe . it be intend to deliver a reset to the sector and be expect to be the big review of the water industry since privatisation . I say to my hon . friend the Member for Norwich South , who introduce the Bill today , that the commission will be the platform for discussion about the future . tempt as it may be for he to want to get his Bill pass today , it would not deliver in the timeframe that he would want it to , as that would take a while . let we take a measured stand and look closely at the independent commission — as I have warn my hon . friend the Minister , I will be watch it very closely and ask question about it — because we need to see that overview from every angle . Sir Jon Cunliffe be an independent individual who will be very tough with the Government on this issue . my hon . friend have criticise the proposal for citizen ' assembly , say that we should have the confidence to make political judgment in this House for the future of our water company . will she explain why she support have an independent water commission but do not support the proposal for citizen ' assembly ? I will not repeat all of the issue about people ' s attendance at a citizen ' assembly — the difficulty of achieve it and of people come to it . I be not sure whether Sir Jon Cunliffe be be pay to do the job — quite often people be not — but he have be give time to devote to it , and also have access to a lot of technical expertise and datum . I have spend more than a decade look at these sort of review and how they collect information . they have power to receive that information and the expertise to analyse it . I have have the privilege of work with the National Audit Office for a long period of time , and I know the level of expertise that go into analyse that information , which be quite intense and immense , especially when we be deal with money , infrastructure and water . will my hon . friend give way ? I will give way one final time . I thank my hon . friend for give way , and I will be very brief . there be a crisis of democracy , and as my hon . friend the Member for North East Hertfordshire ( Chris Hinchliff ) have just mention , we be reject a citizen ' assembly . such an assembly could have the technical support and technical capacity as well , but it would give a voice to the public . instead , we have decide to give that voice to Sir Jon Cunliffe , a lifelong Treasury insider who work in the City of London and who will make a decision base on its interest . can she not see the problem here , and the lack of confidence the public have in the democratic decision that be be take by people like that ? my hon . friend be be particularly personal about Sir Jon Cunliffe . I have to say that I have not meet he , but the point be that he will not be make the decision ; they will go to Ministers . I be aware that time be march on , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I would like to say briefly that there be six key area in which the commission be seek view . that be the point — it be not just Sir Jon Cunliffe . I will rattle through those key area and then sit down . they be the strategic management of water ; the overarch regulatory system ; economic regulation ; environmental and drink water regulation ; water company ownership model ; and asset health and supply chain . each of those area contain a degree of technical challenge . any of we , and any of our constituent — I hope we be all ask our constituent to contribute to this process — can put in , but there will be a lot of technical expert in those area that will also need to provide input . Sir Jon Cunliffe will then have to put that to Ministers . another point be that minister do not have to accept what Sir Jon say , but if they want to go into any of it in more detail , my hon . friend the Minister would presumably have the power — of course she have the power ; she be the Minister — to seek further information . I be aware that when commission be set up badly , they can be a problem for Government , but this be a very thorough approach , which be the right approach after all these year of privatisation and the recent extensive challenge , particularly with sewage discharge . it be easy to think that we can just rush in and sort this out , but we need to do it in a measured way . I be always impatient — we all get elect to make change tomorrow — but I have look at fail project for over a decade . if we rush in and do not plan right , we spend more money and it often result in failure . I could list those project , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I will try your patience no far . I compliment my good friend the hon . member for Norwich South ( Clive Lewis ) on his passion , commitment , knowledge and determination . if I may say so , I be also grateful that he mention the late , great David Graeber in his introduction . he be a good friend to both of we , an amazing young man and an amazing philosopher sadly take from we too soon . I think his family will be really chuff that the hon . Member have include he in his speech on something so fundamental as the right to fresh , clean water for we all . this Bill seek to protect that right ; it recognise that water be an essential and basic need , and therefore something so universal and so essential surely ought to be completely in public hand . Most country around the world do not even countenance the idea of privatise water ; they say , " it be our public responsibility to ensure that we can provide clean and safe water for everybody . " when the Government of Margaret Thatcher and other privatise water in the 1980 , many of we strongly oppose it — I think I be the only member in the Chamber who have the privilege of voting against privatisation at the time . we predict that it would lead to a rip - off of the public sector , and to asset stripping of the land and other resource that the water board have build up . we also point out that the water infrastructure we enjoy — the reservoir in Wales , in Scotland and all over England , the piping , the sewage work , and all the other hugely complex element of infrastructure — be , for the most part , build by public enterprise and public investment . we all laud the work of Bazalgette in produce a sewage system for London . that be not do by the private sector ; it be do through victorian investment in a public structure to bring about proper treatment of sewage and provide clean water for the people of London . we should be proud of the public investment that bring about the water system that we have , and should recognise that since 1989 , when water be privatised , £ 72 billion have be take out in dividend by the water company . that amount to £ 2 billion a year not invest in water — not invest in new pipe and in protect the system we have . those profit be extraordinary . the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) rightly talk about the amount of pollution flow into our river . I can not get my head around the fact that 300 , 000 hour - worth of sewage be pump into the Thames in the last year alone . when we add that to the amount be pump into the Severn , the Trent , the Humber , the Mersey and all the great river across this country , we realise the scale of the problem we be deal with . we then realise what happen to that — the sewage go into the sea , and it come back in fish . it pollute water , which do not stop at the river ' s mouth ; it go into the ocean , create further global water pollution . surely we can do much well . I therefore welcome the Bill , and I invite member to look seriously at clause 1 and 2 . clause 1 set out the measure that will be require in the Secretary of State ' s strategy , include measure on prioritise investment , collaborate with local authority and use natural flood management technique , and a requirement for local authority to take into account the need for conservation — all incredibly sensible measure that can only be deliver by public authority . privatised water company do not have as their top line the conservation of the natural world and the environment . they have as their top line , their middle line and their bottom line the profit they can take out of it . and please , nobody tell I that the £ 72 billion pay out in dividend have be reinveste in the british economy . it be in tax haven all over the world . we be subsidise tax haven all over the world on the back of our polluted and privatised water industry . clause 2 relate to the commission on water , which be a fascinating proposal . the commission would include representative of water company — which be privatise at the moment but would hopefully be publicly own — union representative in the water industry , environmental or conservation group , water user , which would be local business , and local authority . I strongly support public ownership of water , but I do not envisage a situation in which the Prime Minister , as a gift to his friend , put they all on a british water board . I would like to retain the exist system of manage river basin area — Thames , Severn Trent and so on . that make sense , because that be where the primary water supply come from . that would be manage through a commission that include the workforce , trade union , all the local authority in the area , local business , because they use water and supply service locally , and other who can be appoint from elsewhere . we would have public buy - in to the structure , which would give we a much well and more democratic system . I urge member to look with some imagination at what the hon . member for Norwich South have put forward . some say , " we can ' t possibly bring this into public ownership because it might cost money . " the 1945 Labour Government start by nationalise the Bank of England in 1946 and go on to bring many other industry into public ownership . even the Ted Heath Government in 1971 bring Rolls - Royce into public ownership and create Rolls - Royce ( 1971 ) ltd because the company be fail . the agree share price be set by Parliament — it be not set by the market in all those case . we can do the same in this case . the right hon . Gentleman and I stand for election in 2019 on a manifesto of public ownership of the utility and water company . it cost I my job , and the public decide to give Labour the bad electoral thumping in our history . will he take some responsibility for that ? do he reflect on the point that what he be advocate have already be reject by this country ? I thank the hon . member for that incredibly friendly and helpful intervention . I be most grateful to he for the collegiate way in which he put that ; I could not put it well myself . that manifesto include public ownership of water and other service because those industry need to come into public ownership ; they be fail . the policy in that manifesto be all well in the plus category — more than 70 % support public ownership of water . this might be uncomfortable for he , but the Labour party actually receive more vote publicly and nationally in 2019 than it do in the recent general election . we have an electoral system that be unbelievably unfair , and which bring about an enormous majority on a very low total vote . we can all play with the number . I do not resile from what be in that manifesto , because it be put there by people who work in the industry . the GMB and other union take part in the consultation that bring about that policy on water . I urge the hon . member to consider the Bill put forward by my friend the hon . member for Norwich South , and to recognise that it be an opportunity to do something different . there have be a lot of to - ing and fro - ing about have a commission , or a citizen ' assembly . why be everybody so scared of a citizen ' assembly ? what be the big problem with it ? be it something in member ’ head ? what be go on ? why would anyone be so worried about it ? citizen get together and put forward a proposal . we do not have to agree it or accept it , and it do not take away the power of Parliament . it give an opportunity for randomly select ordinary citizen to put forward a point of view . that be do a lot in Scotland when we be talk about devolution . it have be do in other place ; in Chile , it be do to develop a new constitution , some of which be ultimately reject in a referendum . do these assembly take away from or diminish the principle discuss ? no . I believe they do the very opposite . I have not yet hear a response from anyone in this House to my legitimate concern about regional variation if there be no ability to compel . the right hon . Gentleman be a Member for Islington in London , where a lot of meeting like this one be hold . I be a Member for Gateshead , 250 mile away . attend an assembly would require a lot of travel . how do he suggest we deal with the lack of compulsion , and the regional variation in involvement in citizen ' assembly ? since the hon . Member use to live in Islington , he be well aware of how great the connectivity to the area be . obviously , we live in a country where the capital , London , be in the south - east . that be maybe not an ideal geographical location , but I do not think it be go to change any time soon . if we have a national commission , it have to meet somewhere — it do not have to be in London . do we have to pay the cost of get people to the meeting ? yes , of course , obviously we do . I envisage a more localise form of consultation in regional water area , such as Severn Trent , Humber and so on . I think that would meet the concern that the hon . Gentleman legitimately raise about the overly centric nature of our political structure in this country . be there not an inherent contradiction here ? I be not against the principle of citizen ' assembly ; my concern be the idea that they need to be form by Parliament . secondly , do the right hon . Gentleman not see an inconsistency between a party that have a mandate for deliver nationalisation , and hand these matter over to a citizen ' assembly for deliberation ? do he not see that there be an inherent contradiction between the two ? I do not think there be a contradiction at all . I think it be mature , grow - up politic to say , " we have the objective of public ownership . we want you to consider what the good form and structure of it would be . " it could be that people do not agree with it at all ; we would then have to discuss and debate the matter with they . obviously , ultimately Parliament have to make the decision . I know everyone in the House be brilliant ; the intellect be superb , and the knowledge amazing , and they be infallible in all their judgment , but be it just possible that there be some people who be not member of Parliament who also have enormous knowledge , experience and ability ? perhaps we should listen to they , too . rise — I will give way for the last time . how long , roughly , do the right hon . Gentleman think it would take to ensure that the citizen be skilled up enough to contribute effectively to the full consultation that he be talk about ? as he be so precious about the intervention from my hon . friend the Member for Bury North ( Mr Frith ) , I will do he a favour by point out that the Bill require the commission to report within four month . some people would not require any training or skill development at all ; other might , and of course a short period would be need for that . this be more a question for the promoter of the Bill . if the hon . member for Norwich South wish to intervene , I would be happy to give way on this point . may I make a more general point ? if the Bill go into Committee , we would look at this in far more detail , but a big part of the Bill be about a mission and our direction of travel . it be about tackle the crisis in democracy , and trust our fellow citizen to give a point of view , with guidance from expert , so that we can make a decision . when the founder of the renaissance or capitalism sit down , do they know that the renaissance would happen , or that capitalism would end up like this ? no . this be about head in a certain direction and have some imagination — order . intervention should be short . I thank the hon . member for Norwich South for that helpful reply to the hon . member for Bermondsey and Old Southwark ( Neil Coyle ) . I be just do my good to facilitate debate here , and I hope that you , Madam Deputy Speaker , will appreciate the congenial atmosphere that I be try to create . I do not know whether it be work ; please let I know later . it be work for we . well , there you go . thank you very much indeed . I will finish with a couple of point . this country now suffer serious flooding almost every year . we have all experience the pain that our constituent and other face as a result . part , but not all , of that be bring about by unusual weather pattern and excessive rainfall . we also need to think seriously about natural river management and natural flood prevention ; that be specify in the Bill , and be important . the city of York , for example , be at a confluence of river . it have always be in danger of flooding , because it have these river flow into it . there could be a combination of solution . one be , yes , flood defence wall , concrete barrier and so on to protect central York from flooding . however , there be also the management of what happen upstream . if we deforest far upstream , build on floodplain and prevent the river follow its natural course , we end up with flooding . there be lot of small - scale natural defence one can have against flooding , such as not build on floodplain , have river meander rather than flow in straight line , and let beaver build their dam on stream and so on . there be a whole lot of solution , all of which add up to something valuable and good . that will not be think about by water company ; it be do with imagination . farmer in Shropshire be promote exactly that kind of solution . likewise , what happen with the River Parrett , which have excessive flooding , have partly be resolve — but not completely — by the Environment Agency recreate peat bog up in the hill . there be a lot of thing that we can do , but they require imagination . a water company , whose sole interest be in make money out of the water industry , will not be interested in that . that be why the public must have a voice in this process , and that be what the Bill ensure . the level of pollution be truly shocking — the sewage that flow in and the danger to all of we . the water we drink be not pure and it be not clean , because there be a limit to how much scrubbing of water can be do to make it clean . we end up drink all kind of foul thing in our water , not to mention the microplastic that exist because of the excessive use of plastic water bottle as people do not trust the water supply . it break my heart . every day I walk up seven Sisters Road and outside every shop be a great stack of plastic bottle of water , because people do not trust the water . would it not be nice if we totally trust our water and do not feel the need endlessly to buy plastic bottle of water to keep we go through the day ? last Saturday , I take part in a local people ' s forum in my constituency . we invite people to come to discuss water and the water supply . the hall be completely full and the forum be also follow online by a number of other people . we have two excellent speaker : Johnbosco Nwogbo from we own it , and Laura Reineke from friend of the Thames . they both speak with passion , knowledge and interest . we then throw open the discussion for question and ask each table to come up with their idea . the commonality be : clean water ; ownership and control ; the cost of water ; and anger and irritation at Thames Water ' s lack of investment in the pipe network , include the lack of re - sleeving of the victorian main in so many place . we have have major flood on Isledon Road , Stroud Green Road , Holloway Road and Seven Sisters Road in the recent past , not to mention one in the constituency of Hackney North and Stoke Newington — not the constituency of the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) , who have be speak today — which flood into our area . the Sobell leisure centre , near where I live , be flood out . it be now two and a half year later and the restitution work for the damage do be just be complete . that be the irresponsibility of Thames Water not invest in the network , waste money in the short term by dig up short section of road , replace the pipe , fill it in again and come back the next month to dig up another bit of road 100 metre away to do exactly the same thing . we need a much more coherent and comprehensive approach . the Bill put forward by the hon . member for Norwich South give we the chance to do something well and do something different : to make our water a public asset and a public resource ; and to take it away from those who have do so much damage to it . instead , let we do something well and say that we be go to provide all the people of this country with good quality clean water . we will stop pollute our river and sea , and we will have river basin management to ensure that flooding , if not end — we be not go to end it completely — will at least be under control through natural as well as other mean . let we end the waste and start invest in a sustainable future for all of we . that be what the Bill do . rise — a lot of member want to contribute today . I call James Frith . I first want to congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Norwich South ( Clive Lewis ) on the Bill and on his passionate speech . no one can be in any doubt about his commitment to this cause . I be strike by the elegance of his comment in his wind - up , which draw on his time serve in Afghanistan . I thank he for his service in Afghanistan ; such service be frequently overlook in this House . it be a very powerful moment in his speech when he combine his service with the argument he be make , and I congratulate he on that . I welcome the opportunity to speak in this important and timely debate . yesterday , we learn of the 3 . 6 million hour of pollutant discharge into our waterway . the condition of our river and sea , and the system that govern they , demand our national attention . there have be conversation about a lack of imagination , but our record in government be that we have already begin to grasp the challenge we have all describe and understand . we be all overwhelm by the contact make by our constituent on this issue and on the quality of water . a distant , arm ' s length system have leave we knee deep in pollution and the water company be up to their neck in it . we need to continue with the mandate give to we at the general election to tackle this issue . the issue be not just about pollution either ; it be symptomatic of the crisis - mode , emergency nature of our public service that even get attention on to flooding or river dredging or even access basic expertise feel like a game of cat and mouse when it come to these organisation . whether it be the Environment Agency duck meeting in Bury North , or United Utilities or different utility branch in respective area , it be eternally frustrating and disappointing how lacking in accountability some of the organisation prove to be . there be politic and power in be a good customer service organisation ; it be not just about an accountable constituency MP turn up and the company take on board concern . even when a local MP write to these organisation , we can receive short shrift or the organisation can fail to respond to the issue at hand . we need to bear down on the organisation and get the good for our people . the mentality of accountability be decidedly miss from so many of our public service provider . we need to re - instil a sense that they be accountable to we — that we determine the nature of their work and the outcome that we expect from they . of course they be stretch and under pressure — we have all rehearse the inheritance that the Labour Government have receive — but too often there be a culture of avoidance , of obfuscation and , frankly , of duck responsibility . nowhere be that more apparent than in a sector charge with safeguard the very essence of life itself : water . the issue be not abstract but a live experience in community such as mine . in Bury North , we know all too well the consequence of failure . the River Irwell , which flow from Ramsbottom to Radcliffe , be the most dump in river in England last year . in 2023 alone , United Utilities be responsible for a staggering 11 , 974 sewage spill into the Irwell — an average of 32 every single day . that be not just staggering but shameful . the state we be in be barely fathomable . the issue be also personal — it be environmental and affect our family . I have walk those river bank in Ramsbottom , through Burrs , with my child . I have warn they not to go near the water for a variety of reason , which now also include the pollutant level . I have spend many a sunny afternoon warn they to stay away from the water or encourage other people ' s family to exercise due care because of what lie beneath . the pollution of that river be a blight on our community and a direct threat to our health and wellbeing . it be not just a statistic but a national scandal — another day , another national scandal . it be barely believable that the situation should have be allow to get this far . do my hon . friend agree that one of the under - recognise aspect of sewage and pollution be their huge impact on the tourism industry and our ability to attract people to this country so that they spend their money here ? my hon . friend be absolutely right — that be an important observation . the town be do its utmost to make Burrs , the country park I have be refer to , into a jewel , a place to visit and a destination to come to , but we have very little say in the quality of the water that run through it . I will engage with the proposal make by my hon . friend the Member for Norwich South and the aim to clean our river , strengthen environmental protection and ensure well oversight , but I believe that the Government be well under way with that focus . I remain focused on community such as mine and what they need now — urgent , decisive action . I look forward to the Minister ' s comment on what come next and what we have already achieve . that have include the banning of boss ' bonus and of mega - payout after decade of under - investment . I agree with what the hon . Member be say about level of pollution . do he really think that United Utilities be a fit and proper organisation to carry on supply water ? do he not think that somebody else should be do it — like we ? I would not suggest that either the right hon . Gentleman or I should be in charge of the water in my constituency . we need severe and automatic fine for illegal sewage discharge . there have be real - time monitoring by campaigner , as well as formal observation — I have refer to yesterday ' s update . we need criminal charge for water company executive who have oversee law breaking , and strict environmental and consumer standard . none of this should divide we , but our focus should be the end , not the mean . to bring fail company to heel require a degree of imagination , and we need to put public service first . to simply say that we should have public ownership of everything , without ask who pay and who take the debt thereafter , do not require imagination . it be a failure to answer the challenge and the question . the hon . Member have express concern about how public ownership would be pay for . be he aware of the special administration regime for water company ? it be bring in last year and would substantially address these issue . I be aware of the special arrangement that have historically be provide for many of our formerly nationalise utility organisation , but the clue be in the term " special " . public ownership should not be the go - to ; it be do only under extraordinary circumstance . the hon . Lady and I do not agree on that . I want to recognise those who have work so hard to raise the alarm — campaigner such as Feargal Sharkey and Labour ' s own environmental champion , as well as Bury ' s angler , include Eric Owen and his team . Feargal and the campaigner join I in Ramsbottom last year to stand with local resident and shine a light on the scale of this crisis . Feargal have be a passionate and vocal advocate for clean water , and have not hesitate to call out the water company and call for their accountability . his support speak volume about the urgency and importance of this fight . however we shape the future of water governance — whether through regulation , strategic oversight or question of ownership — it be vital that we never lose sight of the people and place affect by it . this be not an abstract issue . it be about family in Ramsbottom and Radcliffe . it be about child be tell not to play by the river . it be about the wildlife that no long thrive . it be about the basic right to clean water and a function , fair system that protect it . to that end , will the Minister join my effort to register part of the River Irwell in Bury North as an area of outstanding natural beauty , so that we might secure the protection it need and the deep attention that the issue of pollution deserve ? we must act , and we be act . let we continue to do so . I look forward to the Minister ' s comment on what come next in light of today ' s debate . we owe it to our community , our child and the generation that follow to end this sewage scandal and deliver the clean , safe future that they deserve . I be delighted that we be have this debate in the House today . clean water be a subject that be very close to my heart as the representative for North Herefordshire , and to the heart of my constituent , because the condition of the River Lugg , the River Wye and their tributary have cause terrible damage to the local ecology and , indeed , to the local economy . I draw the House ' s attention to my role as co - chair of the all - party group on water pollution , which I establish . these issue be crucial . I will start by reflect on the debate we have have thus far , and then go on to make three point . one hon . Member say that we should not do anything in a rush , but it be clear that nothing in this Bill would be do in a rush . the Bill set out a consider approach to tackle a very complex issue , and there have be some debate today about the potential to use citizen ' assembly as one component in address it . I regret to say that some of the comment and intervention have perhaps be root in a misunderstanding of , or a lack of engagement with , the concept of citizen ' assembly . for example , the citizen ' assembly to which I have refer , which be set up jointly by six Select Committees of this House , be hold in Birmingham , not London , and partly online . travel expense and participation expense be pay . full attention be pay to participation . Birmingham be , in fact , far more difficult than London to get to from my constituency . I do not believe it be about the specific geographic place ; it be about how we get people together from all corner of the country , to make sure we have a regional spread . I warmly invite the hon . member to read up about how citizen ' assembly work , how the sampling work and how participation be facilitate for all people , and about the time commitment . the citizen ’ assembly previously establish by this House be over three weekend in Birmingham . these be not huge commitment , but they be a valuable mechanism for ensure that the public have the time to consider an issue in depth . I want to raise three point on this important Bill . first , I could not agree more with the hon . member for Norwich South ( Clive Lewis ) that the privatisation of water have be an absolute disaster . we have see soar bill , soar executive pay , soar dividend and soar siphoning of finance out of our country into the pocket of private interest , while at the same time our infrastructure have crumble and our river have become increasingly polluted . it be long past time to resolve this national disgrace . my Green colleague and I believe that public ownership be a core part of the solution , but it be not the only solution . we have to ensure that the water system be adequately regulate , so that whoever be in charge stick to the rule , do not make profit on the back of pollution and do not pump sewage into our river — that be fundamental and essential . how do the hon . Lady propose to pay they for run the water system ? we all agree there be problem , but in the current climate , where would she get the money from to pay for this to happen ? I refer the hon . Lady to my previous comment on the merit of citizen ' assembly in consider the detail over many dozen of hour . I also refer to my party ' s manifesto . secondly , climate change be a systemic challenge . I be glad that some hon . member have mention this and that it be include in the text of the Bill because , as the hon . member for Norwich South say , it be a huge problem when there be too little water . too much water be also a huge problem , and that problem be increase . I have already speak several time in this House about flooding in my constituency . climate change be make these challenge more frequent and more severe , so any Water Bill need to address not only the water industry , water supply and sewage , but also climate change and its interaction with water . I be pleased that be mention in the Bill . another topic mention by the Bill , somewhat briefly , be perhaps even close to my heart — and certainly close to my constituency . indeed , as I put my hand to my heart , I feel the jewellery I be wear , which represent the River Wye . pollution be the elephant in the room in how this issue be currently be tackle . pollution come not only from sewage but from agricultural run - off . nearly three quarter of the pollution in my constituency be from agricultural run - off . there have be a plan moratorium across almost all of my constituency for more than five year , with devastating economic effect . tackle the water industry will not address this . indeed , the majority of my constituency be serve by the only non - profit water company in the UK . the problem we face be around pollution . I find it disappointing , even distressing , that although the conversation about water in this House have rightly focus on sewage , it have not focus sufficiently on tackle water pollution . as DEFRA figure and the Environmental Audit Committee ' s report both show , half of the problem be from agricultural water pollution . slightly more of our waterway be in bad condition because of agricultural pollution rather than sewage pollution . this be an issue that we need to tackle together , work in concert with farmer . we need to support farmer , which be why I be so devastate by the direction in recent month , which have arguably be wrong . I be particularly upset that just a couple of week ago , the sustainable farming incentive be take away from farmer without anything to replace it . we need a government who work with farmer and support they to transition to nature - friendly farming , so that we can reduce the agricultural run - off that have such a devastating effect on our waterway . the Government have this vital role to play in leadership . it be essential to tackle the failure of the privatised water industry , essential to tackle the outrageous volume of sewage overflow into our river and essential to tackle agricultural water pollution . could I take the hon . member back to the question of farming pollution ? do she feel that the problem be too many pesticide be use in farming , too large field , or an inability to restore the natural drainage system , such as ditch , which lead to water go into groundwater , rather than rush down and fill and pollute our river ? I hope the right hon . Member would agree that it be a multifaceted problem , and that there be different issue in different place . there be no one - size - fit - all approach . in my constituency , the issue be particularly about phosphate pollution , but in other place it be about nitrate , and in other place it be about water volume . I absolutely agree with his early comment on the importance of upland water management and natural flood management approach , which be way to ensure that we manage water , keep water on the land and address question of drainage . indeed , I mention this in a debate on the Planning and Infrastructure Bill just the other day , because it be vital that the Bill address the question of water management . we need to treat these thing in an integrated and site - specific way . I have call for many year now for a water protection zone in my constituency to ensure that the source of pollution be correctly attribute and tackled , and have call for more funding and tooth for the Environment Agency to enforce the exist rule , which will help to reduce the problem of pollution . to conclude , I warmly welcome the Bill bring to the House today by the hon . member for Norwich South , which present a thoughtful , constructive and detailed way of bring people together to address what we all recognise be a crucial problem . however , I say to he — and to the Minister — that we must tackle agricultural water pollution with the same sense of urgency and commitment with which we be address sewage . Sir Jon Cunliffe ' s Independent Water Commission explicitly exclude this issue from its term of reference , except in so far as it relate to the water industry . I have read the water commission ' s term of reference very carefully , and have speak to the commission about it : it be not set up to address the problem of agricultural run - off into our river . we need the same level of focus on this issue as we do on sewage , because if we want to clean up our river , lake and sea , we need an integrated approach . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Norwich South ( Clive Lewis ) on his success in the private Member ' s Bill ballot and on bring forward this Bill , which deal with such an important topic . he deserve great credit for continue the national debate on the quality of our waterway . I know from the many email I have receive since my election in July that my constituent in Ashford , Hawkinge and the village be angry about the state of our waterway , and they have every right to be angry : the late figure for my constituency show that the waterway that be pollute by sewage 1 , 127 time in 2023 . this be allow to happen as a result of 14 year of mismanagement and weaken regulation of the water industry by the Conservatives . the polluting of our local waterway have a real - world impact : it risk damage our ecosystem and have an impact on people ' s health . not long after I be elect , I be contact by a primary school in my constituency . at the end of the summer term , the school have a lovely tradition of take some of its child to paddle in the Great Stour , which run near the school . however , the school contact I to say that when it take child to the river at the end of last year , 25 % of those who have splash and paddle be ill within 24 hour . I will give another example . a constituent who regularly swim in the channel off the coast of the constituency of my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Tony Vaughan ) contact I to express his deep concern about the amount of sewage that be allow to be pump into the sea from the combine sewer overflow . those be just two example of how pollution have be permit in our waterway . this unacceptable and unforgivable destruction of our waterway should never have be allow to happen , but that be exactly what the Conservatives do when they be in power . many of my constituent contact I in advance of the Bill ' s Second reading to let I know how important water quality be to they . water be a resource that we all rely on , and they rightly feel that the system be fail they , with polluted waterway , decline service standard and increase bill . water company be fail to deliver for their customer and the environment , and the public have rightly have enough . I welcome how , since my hon . friend the Minister and colleague enter office , they have take immediate measure to address the failure of the last 14 year , include ensure that funding for vital infrastructure investment be ringfence . I be pleased to see that compensation for household and business will be double when basic water service be affect . I be proud to support the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill , and I be delighted to see it receive Royal Assent last month and pass into law . the strengthening of the enforcement regime be an important sign to the water industry that thing have change under this Labour Government and that Labour Members will not tolerate the poor standard of the last 14 year . I want to see a fundamental transformation of our water industry . I also want the waterway in Ashford , Hawkinge and the village , as well as the rest of the country , to be clean up and restore to good health . I will not , however , support my hon . friend ' s Bill , as the measure that he propose go too far . I do not think it be the right time for they . this be an important issue , and we need to talk about it , but I be not convince that bring water service into public ownership would guarantee well service . we have hear , see and experience that in our NHS . what happen there ? we bring in NHS England to fix the problem and now , 14 year later , we be get rid of NHS England . we have hear hon . member talk about standard in our school and the standard of our road . be it the right time for the measure in the Bill , or be it time to take responsibility and undertake the action that Labour come into government for ? in eight month , we have move fast and take strong action . should we not give those new act time to come into effect and see if thing get well ? for how long do my hon . friend think we should polish the turd — we can probably find that float in most of our river — of privatised english water ? I would like to see thing get well immediately . we can not carry on as we have any long , but what guarantee be there that by take water into the public sector , the public ' s water bill will come down and they will get the service they expect ? we see problem in our public sector . for example , the NHS do not have the workforce to do the job , and we have see waiting list go up . can we wait for two day before get the water supply back in our house if we do not have enough people to do the job ? be this the right time for the change in the Bill , or should we give time for the action we have take already to come into effect and see if thing get well ? that be why now be not the right time to do this , but we need to talk about it because it be an important subject . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Norwich South on introduce the Bill , but we should continue talk about and monitor this , as it be the only way to move forward . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Norwich South ( Clive Lewis ) for bring forward this important Bill . I enjoy his passionate — although a little loud — speech . he be right that the public want well , and I think the action that we have take in government show that we want well too . in recent month there have be so many discussion in the Chamber , Westminster Hall and the other place on how we can fix the break water industry that the Tories leave behind . we have pass a Bill and set up a commission — clear action from this Government . these crucial debate together be ensure that my constituent get the justice and representation they deserve after the Tories fail community like mine for 14 year , and not just in the water sector but in so many public service . sadly , they turn a blind eye to record level of illegal sewage dumping , cut the Environment Agency budget in half since 2010 , and allow customer money to be spend irresponsibly on director bonus and shareholder payout . the Conservatives avoid so many opportunity to hold the water company to account , and they fail to regulate to protect our waterway , even after a shocking incident in September 2022 in my constituency . on 12 September , the Environment Agency receive report of a sewage discharge . contractor arrive at Brooks Lane pumping station the same day to stop the problem , but officer discover that 1 km of West Meadow Brook near Whitwick have be pollute . the investigation find the sewage discharge have be go on for week completely unchecked . there be an overwhelming odour , with a thick coating of sewage fungus cover the riverbed . human faecal matter be also visible . Severn Trent Water admit that its team have fail to see that the pump have latch out and be not activate . it also accept that it have fail to monitor effectively . the damage be so severe that the company take the offer of an enforcement undertaking , give Trent Rivers Trust £ 600 , 000 to support the restoration of the habitat and environmental improvement . in the same year , 2022 , Sir Chris Whitty , the chief medical officer , outline the serious health risk that sewage spill can pose for those use the country ' s waterway . the Tories do not heed his warning and nothing be ever do . even after this disgusting incident , sewage still pour into waterway in North West Leicestershire : 15 , 000 hour in 2023 — 15 , 000 hour ! — and close along to the pumping station there be a number of storm outflow , which continue to release untreated effluent whenever they fancy . I have visit resident and walk with they across several section where spill take place . it be disgusting , because even when the sewage be no long be spill the residual smell linger and the visible debris continue . Severn Trent do clearance work , but never enough . as a Leicestershire MP , I also have to mention flooding . we have have so many resident who have be impact by flood in our county , not just once , but many , many time , and , sadly , now be never go to be able to return to their home , such be the impact of flooding in my community . there be no doubt in my mind that if the Tories be still in government , we still would have have no action to address these issue . they would still be take none of the action need to clean up our river and sea , and there would be no cracking down on the water executive . I have not intervene on other speech , but on that one comment that the hon . Lady have make , have she read the plan for water that be publish by the previous Government and be she aware of its content , which include £ 56 billion of investment to deal with exactly this issue ? I serve on the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill Committee and obviously do my research on that . however , nothing change : so we have a plan , but what we need be action , and that be the most important part of the approach we need to take . bonus have still be pay to executive . since 2020 they have reward themselves £ 41 million in bonus , benefit and incentive — the price of failure be literally reward . I know how important tackle the behaviour of the water company be locally . water issue be constant in my casework , include flooding , sewage and water management . in a meeting with Severn Trent Water in January , one of my constituent be so furious at the lack of action , after month of issue and several meeting try to get severn Trent to deal with they , that she bring a bag of sewage with she and dump it on the table on front of the executive . when water company be respond to email or call from resident , too often they forget how stomach - churningly detestable the issue really be , which prove how out of touch they really be . go forward , we know that accountability be crucial , but communication with resident be equally important and they can not be leave behind . I encourage every one of my constituent who experience problem with sewage outflow , flooding or poor standard of customer service to continue to get in touch with I . there be simply no excuse for the way in which some of my constituent have be treat , and I be certain that many other hon . member will have constituent with similar story . have serve on the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill Committee , it be clear to I that that Act be a first step in a line of measure to hold the water boss to account . the Act will ban bonus for pollute water boss . news report in the last day about the record level of sewage discharge will mean that no boss should get any bonus this year . the Act will enable criminal charge against law breaker , mean example like the one I give early may have result in a criminal charge . it will force water company to cover the cost of the enforcement action and pay for the damage that they do to our community . we have to go far , and we will . Sir Jon Cunliffe ' s current review of the water sector be open for evidence . he have say " that the prize here be significant — clean water , growth and a stable , well - fund sector " . his passion for change be clear and match the current Government ' s ambition to clean up our filthy waterway . I be sure that all hon . member in the Chamber , especially those on the Labour Benches , be 100 % committed to take the action necessary to fix our foundation , because that be what our constituent , our country and our environment deserve . my constituent vote for change , and I will ensure that they continue to get it . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Norwich South ( Clive Lewis ) for introduce the Bill . I know that my constituent in Beckenham and Penge will want to thank he for raise the issue address in the debate today . I will begin by talk about the recent five - day water ordeal that my constituent be subject to by Thames Water . on the evening of Tuesday 11 February , a main water pipe burst up the road from I , in Dulwich , south London . overnight , thousand of home , hundred of business , 11 care home and 29 school all lose access to their water . six London postcode be affect in all , include two in my constituency . the next day , resident in Anerley , Crystal Palace and Penge , in my constituency , wake up without any water . in response , Thames Water establish a bottled water centre at the Sainsbury ' s in Bell Green . for those unfamiliar with the geography of south - east London , while it be locate in a lovely part of the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Lewisham East ( Janet Daby ) , ironically adjacent to the River Pool and the Waterlink Way , it be also up to an hour ' s walk away for some of the people in my constituency who be leave without water . it be an unacceptable solution that could easily have be avoid . later that evening , Thames Water manage to make thing even bad . the sole water bottle station be close due to a security incident , leave resident reliant on local supermarket stock . unsurprisingly , those run dry pretty quickly . while the water bottle station later reopen , despite my offer of support and the offer of support from other hon . member , Thames Water refuse to open an alternative site close to the outage . some constituent still do not have any water by the start of the weekend , have be leave without water since the Tuesday evening . those resident include vulnerable customer who could not be expect to leave their home , never mind walk for an hour . those resident be entitle to sign up to what be call the priority service register . resident on the PRS should receive delivery of bottled water , as well as additional support and communication from Thames Water , yet throughout the outage I be contact by resident on the prs who be not receive any of that help on time — some be receive no help at all . along with local volunteer , my team and I knock on hundred of door across the local area , include on the evening of Valentine ' s day — which , as someone point out , might be the reason I be still single . we identify those who might need additional help and deliver bottled water to they all over the weekend . this include resident who be pregnant , those who be disabled , and some who be terminally ill . one constituent ' s story particularly stick in my mind : a disabled single mum of two , reliant on oxygen , be leave without water for day , without any support or emergency delivery from Thames Water . the compensation she receive for that failure be a £ 40 good - will payment . while I thank every volunteer who help with that effort , it should never have be necessary . it be Thames Water that have a responsibility to safeguard vulnerable customer and provide alternative source of water . this week , my hon . friend the Member for Lewisham West and East Dulwich ( Ellie Reeves ) and I meet representative of Thames Water to talk to they about that water outage and some of the lesson they could learn from it . one of the point I make to they be that this be not like covid , which spring up without any warning ; burst water pipe happen all the time , and frequent and consistent communication be a pretty standard thing that constituent and customer be entitle to expect . however , I do not mention this ordeal just to highlight the unjust plight of my constituent . their experience embody the failure of the water system highlight by the Bill that my hon . friend the Member for Norwich South have introduce . the previous Government fail to drive investment in the system and abdicate their responsibility to regulate . a failure to maintain , invest and build have lead to an ache system , one in which over 50 % of Thames Water ' s sewage treatment plant have inadequate capacity and where , in 2024 alone , Thames Water discharge raw sewage into river for nearly 300 , 000 hour . all the while , that failure be reward . in 2023 - 24 , Thames Water pay executive bonus worth over £ 1 . 3 million — a reward for fail management , aid and abet by the previous Conservative Government , that have leave an investment shortfall of £ 24 billion . it be our constituent who pick up the tab for that shortfall , leave to pay the price of failure , with some quite literally see their bill double . I do not dispute that investment be need , but this must never be allow to happen again . I be pleased that this Government have take immediate action , include bring criminal charge against persistent lawbreaker , give regulator the power to ban executive bonus , introduce severe and automatic fine for offence , and ringfence money for vital infrastructure investment . I also want to talk about a lesser - know reform that relate to compensation , which be the guarantee standard scheme . admittedly , it be not a document I have familiarise myself with before constituent be leave without water , but it lay out the minimum compensation rate for water outage . last month , my constituent be entitle to a measly £ 30 for each 12 - hour period when they be leave without water , or a one - off payment of just £ 25 for low pressure . the reason why those rate be so low be that they be last update in the year 2000 , so I be glad that this Government have act to finally reassess they . new plan mean that low pressure incident could see payment of up to £ 250 — a 1 , 000 % increase — and payment for water outage will rise to £ 50 , plus an additional £ 50 for every 12 hour that the incident remain unresolved . I be pleased that our new Government be act quickly to fairly compensate those who suffer from water outage in the future . reform to our water system and today ' s debate be not just about security of supply , but be also about protect our waterway and coast . that be something my constituent deeply value , as do I . during my campaign to come to this place , I invite Feargal Sharkey — the prominent water campaigner and one - time frontman of the Undertones — to visit Cator Park and the small stream of Chaffinch brook in my constituency . we visit the Friends of Cator Park and Alexandra Recreation Ground , which do so much for the park . that organisation and all the environmental campaigner I have meet in my constituency understand that our waterway be a crucial part of our environment and play an irreplaceable role in sustain our biodiversity . I will just finish on this point : I have be most impressed in my constituency by so many of the young people I have meet on school visit . from engage with young people across Beckenham and Penge , I know how much this issue matter to the next generation . I will give two example . I be contact recently by Daniel , a year 12 student and a member of the Langley Park school for boy environmental society . he and other take the initiative to contact I for help explore funding opportunity for their biodiversity scheme . the society ' s member be determined to support wildlife around the school and across our constituency . they have already organise a clothe swap and bake sale to raise fund to do so , and I look forward to meet they soon . I also recently meet member of the fabulous eco council at Stewart Fleming primary school , who display real care for the environment — for preserve it not just for themselves , but for the generation after they . they be work closely with the Friends of Betts Park , help to ensure that it , and the short section of the Croydon canal in it , remain an attractive place for people to visit . I thank and commend so many other school across Beckenham and Penge that have active eco council . they often sit alongside school council , which every primary school have — school include Clare House , Churchfields , Balgowan , St Mark ' s , Shortlands and many other . on Wednesday evening this week , I visit Beckenham scout , who be a fantastic group of young people . we play a game where they set their own Budget and say what they would spend and prioritise , as if they be Chancellor , and the environment always come out as one of the top priority . I hope that member have learn that we have fantastic waterway in south - east London . the reform to our water system that my hon . friend the Member for Norwich South have be pivotal in push for be crucial to protect not just consumer and constituent , but our national heritage and environment , which I know be hold dear by every generation in Beckenham and Penge . I be grateful to my hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Norwich South ( Clive Lewis ) for bring this important debate to the House . I could definitely hear he on the Back Benches , so I thank he for that . in Scotland , thank to a Labour Scottish Executive , water be retain in public hand . while that do not mean that everything be perfect in Scotland , it do provide a good comparison with England and Wales . since privatisation , water bill in Scotland have be consistently low than in England , and customer satisfaction be consistently high for Scottish Water ; all other water company trail behind . my hon . friend be right that it be time for a national conversation on the future of water management in the United Kingdom . the experience in Scotland and Scottish Water have much to offer in that conversation . water company need to provide clean drinking water and remove and treat our waste at a reasonable cost over a sustained period . those should be the measure that we use to determine whether a water company be deliver or fail . so much of our water infrastructure be establish generation ago , and our demand and expectation have change over time . it be staggering to think that so much of what we rely on today have largely remain unchanged since it be first lay down . there need to be sustain investment in replacement and renewal . I wonder whether the regulation in place have be sufficient to ensure that investment be make . perhaps the previous Government be less concerned about the right balance between dividend for shareholder and investment in infrastructure , but this Government will need to take action to ensure that the mistake of the past be not allow to jeopardise the water system we need now and in the future . Scotland be endow with significant water resource , which contribute greatly to the national character and beauty of Scotland . my constituency of Paisley and Renfrewshire North sit on the bank of the River Clyde , which have see significant improvement in water quality over the past 20 year . that be thank in no small part to collaboration between the public water company and other agency . they have co - ordinate their action and invest in the long - term future of the Clyde catchment , all without the constraint of shareholder fund . I do not want to pretend that everything in Scotland be always perfect . we have have issue with leakage and some notable uncontrolled discharge in my constituency , particularly in Inchinnan , but manage the water and , importantly , sewage be a complex business that require long - term planning and investment . Scotland seem to have avoid some of the bad experience of coastal community in England , where untreated sewage have be release into water body almost daily . the small number of activist have be join by many thousand more who regularly enjoy our coastal and freshwater environment . in my role as a member of the Environmental Audit Committee , I be remind of the source - pathway - receptor model for assess environmental pollution . even if the discharge remain the same , if the number of people expose to it increase , the impact of the discharge increase , so the urgency of remediation increase . that be one factor at play in uncontrolle discharge from treatment work , and it be one reason why some of the practice that might have be appropriate in the past be no long acceptable . like my hon . friend the Member for Norwich South , I want the water industry to do well and be well . I welcome this debate . it pose many of the important question that our water company need to address , and I be sure that the Government will want to make substantial progress in this area in the year ahead . I thank my hon . friend again for present his proposal to the House . I , too , congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Norwich South ( Clive Lewis ) , and I commend he for the passion with which he introduce the debate . I believe that I serve the good community in the country , and I be aware that I have constituent in the Public Gallery , but I do not play to the gallery . my community be shape by the River Thames , literally , because the constituency ' s northern border be the river . my constituent be subject to only one water operator , Thames Water , and I come here to serve my constituent by seek pragmatic solution . they want safe , affordable water , and problem fix when they arise . I very rarely find constituent who obsess over who provide it . let we not beat around the bush : there be no doubt that Thames Water have be run into the ground . customer in Southwark have a right to be angry . they have face high bill , leak and sewage — it have be a disgrace . the great promise of privatisation have fail to materialise over 35 year . sadly , the promise of low bill and a more efficient industry have turn to dust . the figure speak for themselves . it be report last year that , since 2020 , there have be at least 72 billion litre of sewage discharge into the Thames — I say " at least " because not all outlet be monitor . we should thank River Action and other , include wild swimmer , for their work on the issue . wild swimmer be welcome at Greenland dock in my constituency . I be yet to take the plunge — literally . prosecution of Thames Water by the Environment Agency for pollution incident lead to fine of £ 35 . 7 million between 2017 and 2023 . early this year , Thames Water be fine £ 3 . 3 million after it kill more than 1 , 400 fish by discharge million of litre of untreated sewage into river . the company admit four charge in an Environment Agency prosecution . that be unacceptable . it be prosecutable under exist law , and the company need to do more . Change be require ; it be promise in our manifesto , and I believe that the Government intend to deliver it . I want to give a few example from my constituency of how Thames Water operate . my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) speak about standpipe . as my hon . friend the Member for Beckenham and Penge ( Liam Conlon ) say , we see people affect by outage , as company like to call they , and in that case , bottled water be mean to be provide . too often , that be push on to council to provide , rather than it be deal with by the company responsible for fail to deliver such a basic essential . I have have to intervene to support constituent in some frankly bizarre case . in Stevenson Crescent , a constituent come to I who have a leak from a pipe by her front door for 15 year , lead to high water bill . there be a dispute between Thames Water and her landlord , Hexagon Housing Association , and neither would take responsibility . both say that she owe money and should pay . it should not take a Member of Parliament ' s intervention to get company and landlord to sort out a problem that have be go on for so long that it be cause damp and mould in this woman ' s home . it be a disgraceful state of affair , and the Government should seek to change it through legislation on how these company operate . on Welsford Street , Thames Water store equipment , block emergency vehicle and cause disruption for about 18 month , which be unbelievably callous and disrespectful . in Janeway Street , near my constituency office , builder damage kerbe and pave without care for how people use it , and they fence off pavement , which cause disruption for people with pushchair and wheelchair . when Thames Water attend a flat above my constituency office , opposite Bermondsey tube station , it remove the gate at the back of my office and do not bother to put it back . I do not know why it think I would not be on to it . in Oakville House , there be a sewage leak into the boiler room , which mean that resident be leave without heating or hot water in December , when temperature be below zero . that be completely unacceptable , and it be not fix fast enough . at Bermondsey village hall — yes , there be a village hall in Bermondsey in central London — there be a leak in the car park . Thames Water refuse to accept responsibility . the water meter in this community facility be go like a desk fan . the hall be run by Chris Parsons , a wonderful community stalwart who run the policing and ward panel ; the last time I be in the village hall be to run a community safety forum . she be also involve in St Olave , St Thomas and St John United Charity , a historic charity provide education support and fund to people in difficult circumstance in my constituency . it do tremendous work , although there be issue that need sort out , and Chris be work with I before the Charity Commission have to formally be involve . Chris run the community hall . it be a genuine community facility reliant on the good will of volunteer and people like Chris . the owner of the building — Leathermarket JMB , a co - operative — and Chris come to I because Thames Water would not acknowledge that it be responsible . it take month to sort this very basic problem . it take bailiff turn up for debt that they claim be thousand of pound , and the threat of legal action . it be incredibly heavy - handed , and it be symbolic of the company ' s attitude and uncaring model . my hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Norwich South refer to the excess of the sector . this be a good example of its lack of care for the customer it be mean to serve , and about the leak , which be pour gallon of water underground , potentially damage the foundation of other building . then there be the roadwork on Brunel Road . two week ago today , Thames Water begin work on Brunel Road . that have directly cause the loss of two bus service : the 381 and the C10 . Brunel Road be in Rotherhithe . the constituency be shape by the river . Rotherhithe be an Anglo - Saxon name that mean " a landing place for cattle " . Rotherhithe be the dock . that mean ship — not just shipping of good and trade , but shipping of people . other member might claim credit for the Mayflower , but we know in Rotherhithe that the Mayflower set sail for the United States in 1620 from Rotherhithe . the master of the Mayflower , Christopher Jones , be bury in St Mary ' s Church in Rotherhithe . my hon . friend the Member for Norwich South talk about democracy . the reason the Mayflower set sail , crew and be board by pilgrim in London be that they be seek democratic and religious freedom . Americans claim the Mayflower as part of their democratic history . there be an amazing book on this write by a constituent in Bermondsey call Graham Taylor , " the Mayflower in Britain : how an icon be make in London " , which come out on the quatercentenary of the mayflower journey — that be in 2020 , for anyone struggle with the math . it be about how the investor and the people board in London , rather than anywhere else . I be talk about Brunel Road . Rotherhithe be a peninsula of 20 , 000 - plus people . the 381 and C10 bus be cut off be hugely disruptive , force some people to walk more than a mile to get an alternative bus . two week ago Thames Water use an emergency process to seek permission for its work , send an email after council officer have leave the building . there be a legitimate question about whether Southwark council should have have well access to email over the weekend to see that emergency email point out work , but Thames Water use that emergency process and dig up the road . it could have do one side and then the other , but it choose to shut off the whole road — underhand and uncare about the impact of the work . the work be suppose to finish today , and I hope they do , but if they do not , I hope Ministers will consider new power for council to block the misuse of emergency procedure , such as in that case . Brunel Road be not name after Isambard Kingdom Brunel . well than he , it be name after his father Marc — this be perhaps link to the debate . Marc flee left - wing revolutionary in France who be scrap private ownership , not just without give compensation but by take off the head of anyone who oppose it . more importantly , Marc Brunel design and build the Thames tunnel , just a stone ' s throw from the King ' s Bench debtor prison , where he be lock up until the Duke of Wellington as Prime Minister fund a grant to release he so that he could build that tunnel , which be a feat of engineering at the time . drill from Rotherhithe to Wapping , it be the first subaqueous tunnel in the world , and for many year the large soft - ground tunnel . invent in order to achieve that engineering feat be the tunnelling shield , one of the basic tool of modern civil engineering . the tunnel be complete in 1843 . originally it be just for pedestrian , but it have develop over time . it be unforeseeable at that time how it would go on to be use , at one point become part of the London underground . I be digress , but if member want to know more about Brunel history , the Brunel Museum in Rotherhithe be amazing and they should go . the museum actually sell Isambard Kingdom Brunel sock — though other brunel be available . come back to my point , the modern contrast with the Thames tunnel be the Tideway tunnel . Thames Water should have be in a secure place to deliver the modern tunnel that have go under the Thames , but because it be mistrust and because of the debt it have already accrue , it be not in a place to be able to deliver the new engineering feat that we have see in my constituency . this engineering feat of the 21st century will improve the environment , take in storm overflow , prevent environmental damage and take some of the excess sewage away from London . it be 7 . 2 metre wide , which be the equivalent of three London double - decker bus , for those who measure thing by double - decker bus . the two connection tunnel be 5 metre and 2 metre in diameter respectively — 5 metre be roughly the size of a London underground tunnel . one of the vertical shaft for the engineering tunnel be in Chambers Wharf , next to my constituency office , and come with a cofferdam — not without its detractor — that go right up close to people ' s home behind my office . that project be run well and give compensation to the people directly affect , include those affect when the piling for the tunnel get stick and there be drill throughout the night until 5 o ' clock in the morning . member can imagine the complaint I get over that issue . a cofferdam could have provide a new park for the community , with view back to Tower Bridge where people like to take selfie , but no one be willing to take on the maintenance and cost , and Thames Water be not in a position to be trust . instead of divert to a new company to build this tunnel , Ministers under the last Government should have act to address the problem that lead Thames Water not to be trust . as usual , the last Government leave problem of that nature to be deal with by a more responsible alternative , and here we be today talk about this Bill . I make no bone about it ; I be unconvinced that the state take over be a solution , partly for the reason I have state . it be not a permanent solution on any ground . I have serious doubt that make Thames Water a state - own body would make the situation any well , give the fault it have . Madam Deputy Speaker , I know you will be interested to know what my constituency party think . it debate this issue just last week , and out of more than 1 , 000 member , eight support the nationalisation of Thames Water as an emergency motion . I thank those member for contribute , include Karen , Andy , Richard and other . it be useful to hear why they feel it be important . there be a lot of share concern about how the company be run , for the reason I have outline . I would like to thank Mike , Julie and other member who do not believe that simply nationalise it be a solution . they believe that state - own do not necessarily equal well , clean or cheap water , and there be no guarantee that thing would be cheap under a state - own model . we should look at evidence from other state - own institution . nationalisation be not a magic bullet . civil servant have many quality , but run utility business be not necessarily in the whitehall skillset , especially after 14 year of degradation . with Ministers such as Jacob Rees - Mogg , it be no wonder people be work from home . we have criticise the degradation of the civil service , but some supporter of the Bill suggest that civil servant have the skill and expertise to run a utility business . I thank my hon . friend for an excellent speech . I have learn so much history ; it have be very interesting . he might be surprised to learn that I do not believe in state ownership of our water asset either . the Bill give the public the final say on that , along with the Secretary of State and the commission . there be so many other model to consider : municipalised model , mutual , hand the company partly over to the strategic authority and the Mayors that the Labour Government be set up . there be myriad opportunity , option and route to go down . People say that the change would not be cheap . I draw my hon . friend ' s attention to research by Visiting Professor David Hall and Conor Gray at the University of Greenwich . they say that the saving from within the system on a transition to some form of public ownership would amount to between £ 3 . 2 billion and £ 5 . 8 billion annually for England and Wales — enough to deliver price cut of between 22 % and 34 % — because there would be low rate for the financing of future expenditure . order . that be a very long intervention . I be not clear where in the Bill such saving be supposedly achievable . I think it be naive to assume that thing would automatically be well if the ownership of a water company be change and it be run by the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs or the Treasury . we also have comparison with France : Paris have a publicly own water system , yet during the Olympics triathlon , event be repeatedly delay due to poor water quality cause by sewage spill . the cost have be touch on . the Social Market Foundation estimate that nationalise the water industry would cost a small fortune . share and debt holder would need to be compensate , cost an estimate £ 90 billion — that be base on Ofwat ' s regulatory capital value for company in England and Wales . it would cost billion , take time and be extremely complex , and the burden of finance investment in the water and sewerage infrastructure would simply be transfer to my constituent , with no guarantee that future minister would provide the funding that the water system need . and , of course , the debt would become public and go on to the Government ' s balance sheet . a state - own system might also deter overseas investor in other water company ; that be one of the feature of the debate we have in my constituency last week . all that would come at a time when the country be seek to step up investment not only in water and sewerage infrastructure but in energy generation . I be not keen on anything that would block investment and slow growth , particularly when it come to green , more environmentally friendly energy production . I think it be right that the Government have not set out plan to nationalise water . I be interested in result for the people I serve . I welcome the fact that Ministers want to tackle the problem in the sector as quickly as possible by improve what we have . in 2019 , frankly , voter be scared — so scared of our former leader and our manifesto commitment that they choose Boris Johnson over we . I know that my hon . friend the Member for Norwich South commend an element of populism in the support for water nationalisation , but give the populism that we have live through and how we get into the situation the country face now with Brexit , we should be more mindful and wary of simply say that we should all welcome populist idea . the public generally support the death penalty , but most of we would not recommend adopt that . we go to the poll last year and do very well , in case anyone have not notice . our manifesto say specifically — on page 59 , in case anybody do not remember , although I be sure everyone read it avidly : " Labour will put fail water company under special measure " and that we would prevent dumping and empower the regulator . it go on : " we will give regulator new power to block the payment of bonus to executive who pollute our waterway and bring criminal charge against persistent law breaker . we will impose automatic and severe fine for wrongdoing and ensure independent monitoring of every outlet . " the water industry be not represent here today , so I want briefly to be the devil ' s advocate . the industry would say that it have respond to our election and to some of the public concern . for example , it would say that it have set out plan to invest £ 104 billion between 2025 and 2030 to support economic growth , build home and secure our water supply . it would outline that our drinking water be , I think , the joint third well in the world , which be something to be proud of . it would also say that between ' 89 and ' 23 - 24 , the water industry invest more than £ 236 billion in real term and £ 431 billion in total expenditure term . the water industry would want we to focus on Ofwat and the role it have play . it claim that , have water bill rise with inflation , there would be £ 18 billion of additional funding — that be the figure from Water UK . from April 2020 to April 2025 , Ofwat cut investment plan by £ 6 . 7 billion ; that sum could have deal with some of the issue . how we deal with the regulator be an important focus go forward . on pollution , the water industry would say that it be not just about the water industry . agriculture be believe to contribute to 40 % of water - quality failure , and we do not spend enough time focus on other problem . on quality of service , apparently just under 16 billion litre of water be supply to customer every day , which be the equivalent of 140 . 4 litre a day per person accord to Ofwat ' s figure . I be not sure how everyone be use their share — I intend to use mine . the water company would highlight the support that they provide to customer . they have provide £ 1 billion of financial support since 2020 , include support 100 , 000 people during the pandemic with payment break , accord to the Consumer Council for Water . they would also say that leakage be down , but , as I have say , my constituent think it be still too high and want to see further action . another issue affect my constituency be blockage . we have not focus on this very much today , but in the UK there be 300 , 000 sewer blockage every year accord to Utility Week . that be partly the result of 7 million wet wipe , 2 . 5 million tampon , 1 . 5 million sanitary pad and other thing be incorrectly flush down our toilet , include condom and nappy . I ask people please to stop that — I be not suggest that anyone in the Chamber or in this debate be responsible . a business on Blackfriars Road that have be directly affect in 2018 by a blockage come to I . the smell and disruption be disgusting . it be a fatberg — I think that be the polite term : a blockage the size of three bus and weigh five tonne . appropriately , it be near the bottom end of Blackfriars Road — where else ? it be dissect on Channel 4 — where else ? — on a programme call " Fatberg Autopsy : secret of the Sewers " , which be how we know the weight and what be in it . it be not the big fatberg in my constituency , never mind in the country — I assume they be bad in London . there be also a 30 - tonne monster fatberg under Southwark cathedral and Borough market . those fatberg and problem in the sewer and the size of the old sewer be why we need the Tideway tunnel . as I say , Ministers in the former Government should have address the concern of Thames Water and not build a whole new model to deliver a tunnel that will help to address some of those challenge . we can contrast that with the Minister since 2024 , my hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice ( Emma Hardy ) , who be in her place . we also have the Secretary of State , who represent a seat in Croydon — I should have look that up . I thank they for act on the manifesto that be raise with I and support by so many constituent . the Water ( Special Measures ) Act be deliver fast by this government and deliver on the manifesto aim , but we should allow it to be implement before we consider any other legislation . the Act deliver on promise by block bonus for executive who pollute our waterway , bring criminal charge against persistent lawbreaker , enable automatic and severe penalty and ensure the monitoring of every sewage outlet . those be all useful and would have help to tackle issue with Thames Water and other company in the past . as I say , we should allow that legislation to be implement before we look at far adapt and change it . the way in which we regulate be important ; we can not bind a future government . a regulated market with clear safeguard for consumer , a ban on profiteer and a system that deliver long - term investment with a clear framework in regulation be far well . that be the aim of the Government , which be deliver within month of the election . of course , that be follow by the review , which will shape further legislation in time . with apology to my hon . friend the Member for Norwich South , I believe this Bill should wait until we see its outcome . the Independent Water Commission have objective for the water industry and strategic spatial planning — all the " blah , blah , blah " bit — but , importantly , it also have Labour value in its objective on affordability for customer , water company governance , and operational and financial resilience . the commission also include key measure that have not yet be touch on in this debate , include ensure the water industry ' s long - term stability , allow it to attract investment , rationalise and clarify the requirement for water company to achieve well environmental measure — [ interruption . ] I be be encourage to go fast . the commission ' s objective also include improve the industry ' s capacity . I apologise for talk a little long than expect . any new legislation on the water industry must be mindful that nationalisation without compensation damage the whole sector and , as my hon . friend the Member for Norwich South must be aware , force the state to do more at a time when the Government be have to cut other budget . as I say , the motion on this issue do not pass in my constituency , but we have more in common on tackle the abuse in the system , include Thames Water ' s abuse of my constituent , the lack of care about operation , the abuse of customer on bill and leak , and the abuse of the state when a company that believe it be too big to fail expect we to step in . I do not put form before function , and I be focus on the function of an effective water company . I be proud that we have deliver our manifesto commitment , and I look forward to further action from Ministers . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Norwich South ( Clive Lewis ) on introduce a Bill that directly address one of the most strongly feel public sentiment in my constituency and across the country . the work he have do on this Bill , with Unison and other , deserve great respect . I support many of the measure that the Government have swiftly take to address the failure in our water system since take power . block bonus for boss of pollute water company to end the absurd financial reward for the destruction of our natural heritage , and ringfence billpayer ' money for long overdue improvement to infrastructure be positive step in the right direction . do my hon . friend agree that the Government ' s Water ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 could have instruct Ofwat to take a far more rigorous approach to the payment of bonus ? at the moment , boss do not get their bonus if they have a one - star rating . in the last 15 year , every single water company , except one , have have more than a one - star rating , hence they have be able to pay bonus . do my hon . friend think that could have be tighten up ? the Minister be shake her head , but I agree that it be difficult to see how any boss could qualify for a bonus in the current system . I would be fail to adequately represent the constituent of North East Hertfordshire if I do not make it clear that they have no faith whatsoever that private water company , after year of disgraceful neglect , can now be trust to restore the health of our river . the resident who send I to this place be rightly furious at be ask to pay more to make good the malpractice from which water company have be profit . the public do not want to pay towards rescue discredit corporation that have spend decade extract wealth from our countryside and pollute our river to the detriment of wildlife , the pleasure of wild swimming , and any ordinary citizen who care about the natural world . no doubt , some of the activity and profit of these company have be include in the calculation of our nation ' s gdp . nothing could demonstrate more clearly that , so often , what pass for valuable economic activity in this country in reality inflict enormous cost on the public , while threaten the very environment that underpin true prosperity and wellbee for all . frankly , it be difficult to disagree with my constituent when they say that , give the damage do by water company to our river through a combination of over - abstraction and pollution , Ofwat be wrong to allow they to charge so much as an extra penny on bill , never mind the staggering 31 % increase grant to Thames Water . the resident contact I about this issue have repeatedly call for water company to pay for the damage they have do . they say that if the water company can not afford to do so without go bankrupt , then let they . and should nationalisation be require as a result , then let Parliament set the appropriate level of compensation for shareholder , net off not just company debt , but all the dividend shell out while our river and stream have choke with pollution . I recognise that Parliament be not yet ready to accept the radicalism of the wide public on this issue , but this Bill offer a clear and pragmatic solution both to restore democratic faith in the management of our water system , and to ensure that it put people and nature before profit . the whole saga we have witness in our water system mean that we can now say , in all candour , that the capitalism of Adam Smith , in which the aggregate of self - interested economic decision produce the collective good , in so far as it ever do exist , be now just a folk story tell to justify the action of the rich member of our society . when it come to our water system , the free market be a myth , and pretend it exist have only serve to inject more pollution into our environment and inequality into our economy , as have happen on almost every occasion on which we have privatise one of our nation ' s major asset . the Bill offer a solution to reassure resident in Baldock that the Ivel will flow fully once again ; to resident in Buntingford that planning consultation will no long be waive through , where they will cause already overload infrastructure to flood people ' s home with sewage ; and to resident in Barkway that effluent will no long flow into our river for hundred of hour every year . something which unite the river at each of the location I have just refer to be that they be all chalk stream . we be proud custodian of 10 of these internationally significant waterway in North East Hertfordshire and I would be remiss not to take this opportunity to ask Ministers to publish the ready - to - go chalk stream recovery pack . it would be a move warmly welcome by many local group in my constituency and across the country . I would like to extend an invitation to Ministers to join I in visit the River Ivel in my constituency to discuss a superb chalk stream restoration pilot project that could be implement there . to conclude , the Bill have my full support and I hope that Ministers will reflect its whole spirit in their respond remark today . I congratulate my hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Norwich South ( Clive Lewis ) on bring forward the Bill . he address it with the passion for which he be well know . he be also a person of culture , so he will not mind if I begin briefly by quote a little bit of Philip Larkin : if I be call in to construct a religion I should make use of water . go to church would entail a fording to dry , different clothe ; my litany would employ image of souse , a furious devout drench , and I should raise in the east a glass of water where any - angle light would congregate endlessly . water throughout history have be a crucial part of what it mean to be human . as we be all painfully aware from primary school science lesson , we be majority water . but culturally , water be incredibly important as well . in my constituency , people may be aware of " fog on the Tyne " and " the water of Tyne " . " the Blaydon Races " do not mention the River Tyne directly , but it cross the river between verse . tourism , as I mention in an intervention , be critical , and water play a huge part in that , with the Gateshead quay and the Newcastle quayside on the opposite side of the river . when people come to the north - east , the river tend to be a place where they get their photo take . obviously , the quality of the photo depend somewhat on the quality of the waterway . in the past , Tyneside be know predominantly for coal and our coal industry . that have a huge impact on industry and our economy , but also on the river itself . subsequent year have see significant improvement , but I do not think anybody want to go back to the day when the water in the River Tyne could not be drunk — I dare say that give some of the sewage that have be pour in from other contributing river , we might want to give that some very serious thought today . these be the challenge that government face when they inherit a water system that can be describe as little more than a national shame . the conservative party preside over million upon million of tonne of sewage be dump into our water system by unscrupulous and unregulated water company . our water system be not an abstract concept . as be mention early , it be the water that our child swim in , or that we wish they not to swim in . it be the water we drink . it lead to the bill that our constituent pay . as have be imply , people do not necessarily feel that they be get value for money from the current system . frankly , it be incredibly important that the public trust that institution such as Parliament will protect one of life ' s most basic necessity , which be why I be proud to support the Government ' s Water ( Special Measures ) Act early this year . however , I believe there be a lot in my hon . and gallant Friend ' s Bill that be worthy of discussion . as I will come to later , I be not convince by some aspect of it , but he have certainly do we and the public a service by bring forward this Bill today . as mention early , there will barely be a constituency that be not touch by a river or a significant body of water , or that be not part of a coastal area . my constituency be border by not just the famous River Tyne , but the River Team and the River Derwent , and FloodMapper UK report sewage discharge into both the Team and the Tyne . there be people up and down this country who have suffer because of these failure . surfer Against Sewage have already be mention . some 75 % of UK river now pose a serious risk to health due to dangerous level of sewage and human waste be dump into they . I have learn today that we can use the word " turd " as parliamentary language , and no one should have to deal with turd , whether in a stream , a river , a sea or elsewhere . Madam Deputy Speaker , I promise that I will not add " turd " to my regular parliamentary lexicon , but it be important to use it in the context of this debate . surfer Against Sewage have note that nearly 1 , 800 report of sickness after bathe be link to sewage discharge . there be many way I would not wish to become unwell , but do so by consume sewage while swimming be perhaps the most unpleasant that one could face . this be a public health crisis , and people be get sick . surfer and swimmer be fall ill after take to the water . as have be mention , parent be warn their child to keep away from local river . in 2025 , it be utterly shameful that we have to warn people not to touch the water in one of the wealthy country in the world . I have already refer to tourism , and many of we who travel to other country will be familiar with the regular question , " should I drink tap water or bottled water ? " the idea that tourist may begin to question the quality of our waterway be a real concern , and it be one of the untold economic impact that have not really be touch on when we have think about water pollution . our constituent be pay the price , because their water bill have rise and rise while standard have unfortunately drop . standard have drop in my own constituency , and I be glad that the Government be tackle the untold consequence of the water industry ' s failure . in my constituency , a school have to close for week on end because of flooding , which have a hugely detrimental impact on the student . no child should lose out on a moment ' s education because of flooding . one of my constituent — I will not name he , because I have not seek his permission to do so — meet I recently to show I the flood damage that be regularly do to his house . whenever there be significant flooding , water flow through his house and into the back garden . that would be bad enough if he be not in his 80 , have not break a finger when try to lift a storm drain , and do not have a love one with serious health problem who be sleep downstairs , and for whom he be try to care . these be the live reality of our water system ' s failure . they be not exclusively the failure of the water company , but all too often the reaction of the water company have not help to resolve they . although normal work people have lose out , water company boss have regrettably remain quid in , as have be mention already . yes , billion have be pay to shareholder , but £ 41 million in bonus , benefit and incentive have be pay to water executive since 2020 . they have pay themselves while allow the infrastructure of our water system to crumble . the pipe that deliver water to our home , school , hospital and business be hundred of year old and leaking , which be why I will come to something that I be very pleased the Government recently commit to in the Water ( Special Measures ) Act . enough be enough . the BBC announce only yesterday that water company release raw sewage into England ' s river and sea for a record 3 . 61 million hour last year because the legislation pass on to we by the previous Government be , I be afraid , ineffective . that be why , within day of be elect last July , the Government announce plan for the Water ( Special Measures ) Act in the King ' s Speech , and introduce the Bill to this House on 4 September . we have talk about the pace of change in this country , and I think everyone on the Government Benches would like we to be able to deliver thing as fast as possible . People in the Gallery today and elsewhere in the country be restless for change , but bring a Bill to this place in September really show the seriousness of this government . bring a Bill to this place be no small effort , as I be sure my hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Norwich South would agree , and therefore for the Government to introduce the Bill in what be the early week of this Parliament be , I think , very important . the first week in September . the first week in September , as the Minister rightly note . despite the Conservatives vote against it at every stage , the Act pass . I would like to give the hon . Gentleman the opportunity to correct the record : the official Opposition do not oppose that Act . I will happily correct the record . let I say instead , then , that the Conservatives fail to give the Act their full support , which I be sure all our constituent would have like to see . I be afraid I have see similar carping recently — over whether the opposition oppose the Planning and Infrastructure Bill only early this week , for instance . as we say in the north - east — I hope , Madam Deputy Speaker , that this be parliamentary language — if you sit on the fence , you tend to get spelk in your bottom . I would advise that abstain can also have such spelky consequence . the Water ( Special Measures ) Act — which , as the shadow Minister note , the Conservatives do not entirely support or , perhaps , entirely oppose — introduce a number of important change , include criminal liability for water executive and new , tough penalty , include imprisonment when company fail to co - operate or obstruct investigation , which use to result only in a fine . if company fail to comply , the executive will end up in the dock and face up to two year of jail time — a meaningful disincentive . further change in the Act include a ban on bonus for ceo and those in senior leadership unless high standard be meet on protect the environment , their consumer and financial resilience . I be aware there have already be some discussion about star rating , and I be sure the Minister will be come back to that later . our plan for change to clean up our river , lake and sea for good be support by our Independent Water Commission . when it launch last October , it hold a huge call for evidence , urge people to provide feedback on what need to change to clean up our waterway and rebuild our break water infrastructure . the call for evidence , by the way , close at midnight on 23 April , so there be still time for people to make their submission . that be why the new Labour Government and the Environment Agency have announce these change . in January , the water sector make record commitment to clean up the environment and invest in new infrastructure , represent a £ 22 . 1 billion investment in the environment . I be also particularly pleased at the change in the Water ( Special Measures ) Act around the ringfencing of money for investment , so that there be a real focus on investment rather than money slip away to other place . I want briefly to come back to citizen ' assembly , because I would hate for my position on this to be misrepresent . I do have concern as to how national citizen ' assembly can work with a geographically disparate nation . I be constantly concerned that the voice of the people of my region — and , within my region , the people of my constituency — be not always hear in the national conversation . if sometimes I be a little loud , it be because I be try to make up for that . it be a shame that the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) be no long in her place , because I would have say to she that there be no lack of reading on my part . in fact , Stephen Elstub have write very compellingly on citizen ' assembly . while I do not agree with all his writing , and can not claim to have read it all , I think he have certainly make some compelling point . I be not inherently oppose to citizen ' assembly — I believe there be circumstance in which they could work — but I find the idea of have a national citizen ' assembly on something as specific as this challenging , and I would like more information on that as conversation in this area progress . I sense that my hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Norwich South be not as reassure as I be by the Water ( Special Measures ) Act , but have do a little reading over the past few day , I do feel that a lot of the call make in this Bill have be address by the Government ' s plan for change : ensure clean river , lake and coastal water through pollution prevention and restoration ; strengthen climate resilience by repair leak , reduce emission and integrate renewable energy into water operation ; make water more affordable and prevent company from prioritise shareholder profit over public service ; establish a commission on water ; and hold water company accountable with strict enforcement measure . this be a pragmatic , reasonable approach . I thank my hon . and gallant Friend for bring forward his Bill today . it be welcome that additional time have be give to this important discussion , and I look forward to hear what the Minister have to say in response . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Norwich South ( Clive Lewis ) for introduce this Bill and for his excellent speech — there be not many speech for which those in the Gallery burst into a spontaneous round of applause . this be a complex issue and there be no easy solution . as we have hear , the Government be do a lot of work on this and be hold water company to account , but the question be whether more can be do . for example , how can my hon . friend and the Government work together on this , and what can be take from his Bill ? ultimately , my constituent , who be struggle with the cost of living crisis , do not want to be pay for the failure of the water company , which be take billion of pound for their shareholder while my constituent struggle to turn the tap on . the leak we have in Brent East be frustrating too , because after the leak we get pothole , so all of this be interconnect . in 2023 there be a 54 % increase in sewage spill — there be a whopping 464 , 056 spill in 2023 . it be sometimes difficult to put such huge number into context , but the average person pass wind 7 , 000 to 9 , 000 time a year . I hope that put into context just how many spill go into our water and river — [ interruption . ] I sense that be land really well with people : we can imagine how many time we pass wind , and if we just double that , double that , double that , double that , double that , and double that again , that be how much spillage go into our waterway . the water company do not care . as I have say , they give billion of pound to shareholder and some of those shareholder be part of tax avoidance scheme . I be really pleased that this Government be also tackle tax avoidance scheme , because that be vital . infrastructure be crumble , pollution be double , and my community in Brent East be pay the price — as be other mp ' community . I be one of 30 or so mp who sign a letter to say that Thames Water should be put in special measure , because I do not know of any other company or organisation that can fail so many time and still be able to take money out of the system and give it to shareholder and still have a contract — it make no sense . my constituent can not afford the propose increase of over 50 % . this be about profit be privatise . sometimes people , especially politician , talk about profit and say it be the politic of envy ; it be not the politic of envy when profit be take and put in the pocket of millionaire and billionaire while the failure have to be pay for by ordinary citizen . that be not right . it be not just about the environment but about justice , because the least wealthy community be often hit the hard . that be why it be so important that their voice be hear in this place . I be not scared of citizen or of talk to people and have they inform we about the direction of travel . that be what we , as Members of Parliament , be here for , and the more people who talk to we and inform we of what they want to see we do , the well . the olympic rower and legend that be Sir Steve Redgrave be call on the Government to tackle pollution for profit in the Thames after some of our rower be sick after compete there . he say : " we win ' t sit quietly while this catastrophe continue . " he also say that it be " completely unacceptable " and that " urgent action " be need to stop sewage discharge at dangerously high level — E . coli and bacteria level be 10 time the Environment Agency ' s threshold for water . the threshold be low in France , so we can not really compare our level with theirs . at the moment , Thames Water be be take to court by the Good Law Project , defend a staggering £ 3 billion bailout . the other thing be this . the water company be carry too much debt , but that be how they manage their business . that need to be call out , because the situation can not continue . my hon . friend ' s Bill come up with some of the solution . I have the wonderful Brent reservoir in my constituency , which be a site of special scientific interest . it keep water pollution level down to the extent that we can have some survive wildlife and fish in our river , but it be find that really hard , and it do not have enough money to keep go . it be recently give £ 55 , 000 of funding from the Mayor of London ' s grow back green fund — I thank he for that — and it have manage to put in a float ecosystem to improve water quality , but that get hard when Thames Water pump sewage into our river . that can not continue . Change have to happen , and it have to be accelerate . I thank my hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Norwich South ( Clive Lewis ) for give we the opportunity to have this debate , which have range from fatberg to Larkin . it really have be a pleasure . I also thank he for his service in Afghanistan and commend he for his oratory , which leave my throat dry as he describe the condition in which he serve . one thing that my hon . Friend ask we to do — I have not expect this — be to consider what Mrs Thatcher would have do . that be not something I be usually ask , and I have to admit that she be not my usual touchstone when it come to judgment . however , I be leave unconvinced about the need for citizen ' assembly and I suspect that the late Baroness Thatcher might have think the same . among other , my hon . friend the Members for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) and for North West Leicestershire ( Amanda Hack ) and the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) talk about the state of our river . I would also like to touch on that in relation to the importance of river for biodiversity and recreation and our sense of identity . I represent a constituency border by a river , the River Tees — this be an opportunity for I to get on the record for Teessiders that the river be call the Tees , and not the Tee , as be often see , so Teesside have a double e and a double s . the River Tees have indeed shape the identity of the people of the region . the town of Stockton have a 12th century tithe barn that be at the low boundary of the palatinate of the diocese of Durham so that taxis could be collect easily from the Tees , but it be the emergence of steel , shipbuilding and chemical during the latter half of the 19th century and the early 20th century that see the growth of population and the formation of " Steel River " , as it be know , with 100 blast furnace on the river . that lead to such a serious level of pollution that by the 1970 the river be consider to be dead , with black spot . we certainly would not have want to step into it , never mind drink it . however , we have see some real change since then , and have see industry and the environment live side by side . on the south side of the River Tees be the Redcar bulk terminal , one of only two in the country that can handle capesize vessel . the terminal be build during the canalisation of the river in the 19th century . there be a site of special scientific interest there , in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Redcar ( Anna Turley ) , which be build on the limestone in the slag . it be the perfect environment for seal and bird . in my constituency , RSPB Saltholme be home to bittern and the large inland colony of common tern . it be build in an area surround by chemical work that extract the salt from Saltholme , from the brine field and salt cavern there ; the cavern could even be use to support our hydrogen industry in the future . the River Tees , once dead , be now regard as exceptional for trout . a lot of that be due to the improvement make on the river , include the installation of a barrage in the mid - 1990 . that have lead to an explosion in recreation as well ; there be dragon boat race and all sort of other water activity , include row . we have three vibrant rowing club on the Tees . I have do a little bit of competitive rowing in the past ; my crew only ever win one race , and it be when the other team pull up because they think they have get past the finish line , and we very slowly pootle past they . a win be a win . indeed . it be very much a hare and tortoise situation , but I take the win . one thing I learn from row be that you get intimately acquaint with the river on which you row , from head to toe . that be why I be quite shocked when a constituent of mine , Robert , tell I that boat crew on their way back now often encounter sewage on the River Tees , a river that have be extremely clean . we need to think about the role of the water company , but also about give adequate support to the Canal and River Trust , which be frankly underfunde and struggle to afford the capital expenditure that be require to maintain our white water course and the quality of the River Tees . it need revenue as well as capital support , so I call for that support . sewage dump on the Tees have increase by 37 % in the past year . that be a real shame , as the town of Stockton be now turn towards the Tees ; it have a new riverside park , and there have be investment in the area by local entrepreneur . the hon . member for North Herefordshire mention that she have in her constituency the only water company in England that be not for profit — I think that be a prerequisite for water company nowadays . we need to see big change in the water industry , but my reservation about citizen ' assembly mean that I will not support the Bill . however , I would like we all to remember this point about identity and river . in the north - east , we have three great river : the Tyne , the Wear and the Tees , which define whether a person be a Geordie , a Mackem or a Smoggie . our river have shape industry and industry have shape the river , but on the Tees at least , both the river and industry have shape the people . I rise follow a number of excellent and eloquent speech , include from my hon . friend the Member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) , who talk about flatulence , and my hon . friend the Member for Bermondsey and Old Southwark ( Neil Coyle ) , who talk about fatberg . I hope to add some value , and also depth to some member ' contribution . river be critical to our national identity . it be a pleasure to have the River Medway in my home constituency of Chatham and Aylesford . I believe that my hon . friend the Minister visit the river a few week ago when she come to Southern Water ' s Ham Hill plant . I also have the benefit of constituent who work , live and play on the river . it be on their behalf that I contribute to today ' s debate , because whether or not we be passionate about our natural environment , in some way we be all here because of the shape of our landscape . I pay tribute to a number of organisation that lead in this space , include Watershed , which recently release a report ; it be diligent in monitor sewage release across our country . surfer Against Sewage , which a number of my colleague have mention , do outstanding monitoring work , and River Action and Friends of the Earth have also engage with I as a constituency MP . all of we in this House be do great advocacy work , alongside Feargal Sharkey and other passionate campaigner . that advocacy have direct the Government towards early implementation of a number of critical policy , and it need to continue . I welcome that advocacy of those outside the House , and those view the debate . continue be a strong voice on these issue . privatisation have fail . private company since the thatcherite privatisation have not be regulate properly , and they have take significant profit and pass they on in dividend to shareholder . the figure be up to £ 60 billion or £ 70 billion , by some calculation . flooding , burst drain , rise cost and the bonus culture have all come together to create a system that have lose the confidence of not only the public , but the public politic of this country . change absolutely need to happen , which be why I welcome the Government ' s Water ( Special Measures ) Bill , which this Labour Government prioritise from September ; it be one of the early piece of legislation that we prioritise after our election . that , couple with the series of reform that be come down the pipe , will bring about fundamental change in our water landscape . I look forward to see future report on that . the legislation that the Government be look at will , together with other measure , fix a broken system . in their own word — we on the government Benches all agree with they — the Government be try to create a well and more sustainable future , green and healthy river , and strong governance in our water system . we can all agree that the Government be take the right direction ; it might be just the pace of change that be lead to frustration . I want to set the debate in its broad context . my concern with this Bill be that we might be go down an ideological cul - de - sac , although I appreciate that my hon . friend the Member for Norwich South have say that he be open to mutual and other type of co - operative management style . the debate today have be fixate on national utility versus private , and that be not entirely an honest debate ; take Europe as an example . it might be worth clarify that , as far as I can tell — Hansard will prove whether I be right — the majority of the mention of nationalisation be from member oppose this Bill , whereas those who support it be talk about other model , include mutualisation and co - operative . I be happy to take that criticism . I just say this — the hon . member might like to come back on this — I understand from its manifesto that the Green party be for nationalise utility . if she support a citizen ' assembly , would the assembly ' s conversation be narrowly confine to have a nationalise utility , or would she open discussion up to other form of mutual and other way of work ? move on , this private versus state debate be not quite the issue it be make out to be . in Europe , there be a significant number of state - run utility , and they have similar problem with pollution and outflow . the european water regulator have say that there be € 75 billion of natural pollution and 37 % of Europe ' s surface water be in an unhealthy ecological condition . the reality be that that be happen under state utility . the issue be not necessarily about what structure and body run water , albeit that I accept that privatised utility have not work in this country , but the regulation that they work with . the Government ' s position be sensible and reason ; they be hand the issue to a specialist , Sir Jon Cunliffe , who can give regulatory advice on how we can improve the system . move on to the debate about people ' s assembly , I agree that they be a good idea . let a thousand rose bloom . I be happy to receive representation from all body . if this people ' s assembly be non - binding , I do not see the difference between it and any other group that will be engage with we in a public space and in a public way . I do not see the necessity of have another non - bind body make recommendation via a structure that we would establish , because it would not have any more weight than any other non - bind body . I understand that previously , national body and people ' s assembly have meet in Birmingham over a series of weekend , but a lot of the propose reform be extremely technical . my worry be that political party that have a mandate at a general election to either nationalise or not nationalise will simply tie the hand of people ' s assembly , bind they to an ideological viewpoint . that may not have a beneficial outcome . this House be the people ' s assembly , so I do not believe that have non - bind institution like those assembly add any value . this government be correct in their approach . if we hand responsibility to Sir Jon Cunliffe , he will be able to look at the issue in much more detail . as I have mention , regulatory reform be absolutely necessary , but he will also look at financial resilience — water company have be able to borrow and leverage too much , which have have a significant impact on the cost of water for many people — and at nature - base solution , which should be pursue more vigorously . to conclude , we should wait and see what the independent water commission conclude . we should not make this into an ideological argument . although people ' s assembly have a place , in this case they be non - bind and an unnecessary addition . I welcome other contribution . I call the shadow Minister . it have be an absolute delight to listen to the debate . there be time when I think that have an official opposition be unnecessary because of the amount of opposition from Government Members . I congratulate my Norfolk neighbour , the hon . and gallant Member for Norwich South ( Clive Lewis ) . I be delighted to have a return of these rather archaic honorific , because next time he refer to I , he will have to call I honourable and learn , which I know will stick in his craw . I congratulate he on introduce a groundbreaking Bill to the House . it would have a huge impact on the water industry , for good or ill , as I will discuss in the come minute . it be surprising to I , and perhaps to other hon . member who be in this place before the last general election , to see the total absence of any liberal Democrat Members in the Chamber . not even their official spokesperson be here . I remember the amount of noise they make before the election about their view on water . it be tell that when it come to a groundbreaking piece of legislation that could really make a change , accord to the hon . member for Norwich South , they could not even be bother to attend . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] I have unify the House . we all agree on one thing , and we know what that be . the hon . member for Norwich South make not just a critique of the water company , but of private ownership in general . I want to address that very briefly , in a single sentence : capitalism have lift more people in the world out of poverty and despair than any other economic system in history . however , I recognise that there be many form of ownership in a capitalist system , include national and public ownership , mutualisation and private ownership . before throw the metaphorical baby out with the almost uniquely clean bathwater that we enjoy in this country , let we take a moment to look back at private sector water company performance , in a way that would have be impossible for I to do prior to the general election , because the campaigning noise be so deafen that rational debate be too often brush aside . I be take a risk , but I hope that today , in this Chamber , we can have a more rational and careful debate , and look at the datum . let we look at the private performance , both good and ill . this be not a defence of the status quo , but it be a challenge to the assumption that public ownership be necessarily the solution . I will go back and look at element of the performance of the private sector over the past 30 year . the first duty of a water company be to provide safe , clean drinking water for its customer . as we hear from the hon . member for Bermondsey and Old Southwark ( Neil Coyle ) , our water industry pass that test with fly colour . it be not just clean water but the clean water in the entire world , jointly with one other country — and I hope no one intervene to ask I which country that be , because I simply do not know . let we not forget , as we bash the water company , that they have provide the clean drinking water in the world . the next thing water company have to do be to make sure that the supply be uninterrupted . we have an experiment with nationalisation of our water industry up until about 30 year ago . during that period , interruption in the water supply be five time as likely as they be today . to put it another way , privatisation have reduce the interruption of the water supply fivefold . we can argue about why that be , but that be a fact . there be example of disruption such as the one the hon . member for Beckenham and Penge ( Liam Conlon ) refer to , and they be terrible , but in aggregate , the number of disruption have reduce fivefold . we then turn to leakage . as my neighbour , the hon . member for Norwich South , say , water be a scarce and valuable public resource , so leakage be very important . since privatisation , the amount of leakage have reduce by a third . how have all this be achieve ? the answer be that £ 236 billion have be invest by the private sector in our water infrastructure since 1991 . how have it be able to do that ? the answer , in my submission , be that it have not be compete with the provision of new hospital or new school , and — perhaps Government Members will feel this more closely to their heart — it have not be compete with personal independence payment for the disabled , the disability element of universal credit or carer ' s allowance . try ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer now for £ 236 billion to be spend from the public fund on water . we know from the debate we have have last week and this week that that be almost impossible . I turn to performance . there be various way of measure performance , but the headline be serious sewage incident . in the 1990 , the average number of serious sewage incident be 500 a year . now it be well below 100 . the last year for which I could find datum be 2021 , and in that year the number be 62 . there be other element of performance . there be the chemical be leach into our waterway through treat sewage . the most damaging for biodiversity be phosphorus . since 1990 , because of the investment , the amount of phosphoru enter our waterway through the water treatment system have not increase ; it have reduce by 80 % . this be at a time when our economy have grow and our population have increase significantly . the next most damaging chemical be ammonia . again , since 1990 , the amount of ammonia go into the waterway because of treat water have not increase along with population growth or economic growth ; it have in fact decline by 85 % . the next most damaging chemical be cadmium and mercury . since 2008 — a slightly different starting point , I accept — the amount of cadmium and mercury have reduce by 50 % . if we take away the emotion and start look at some of the core datum , we can see that there have be very real element of progress — not universal progress , but real element of progress because of a huge amount of private investment in our water industry . if I could sum up the hon . and learn Member ' s argument , he seem to be tell the public , " you ' ve never have it so good . " I think many member of the public would disagree with that . I would also make the point that all the investment that have go into our water since privatisation have come from our bill . private company have pay dividend and leave themselves £ 60 billion in debt . that be money that otherwise would have be invest into the public water system . I be absolutely not say , " you ' ve never have it so good , " but I be draw attention to the actual datum , so that we can make a balanced judgment . I will come to some of the disadvantage of the last 30 year later on in my speech , so I hope I will give a balanced judgment . we have deal with the river and serious sewage incident — [ interruption . ] hon . member should wait and not be hasty . sewage discharge from storm overflow have be , without doubt , the great area of failure for decade , in both public and private ownership . why ? it be because the problem be hide for decade . it be not report , and it be not measure . back in 2010 , the Labour Government monitor only 7 % of storm overflow . as a result , we have no idea how frequently storm overflow be be activate , or for how long . bad , Labour change the law in 2008 — I think one Labour Member present be in Parliament at that time — to allow the water company to self - monitor their environmental performance . the Liberal Democrats do not come out of this very well , either . [ interruption . ] we can all agree on that . during the coalition , there be a liberal Democrat Water Minister from 2013 to 2015 . what action do they take when they hold the lever of power ? absolutely none . it be the Conservatives who force transparency on the water industry by require 100 % of storm overflow datum to be monitor and then publish within 15 minute . that expose the problem , and we then take action through the £ 56 billion storm overflow discharge reduction plan to fix the problem over 25 year . we all want to go fast , but it be about the balance between cost , the industry ' s ability to react , and the time a responsible Government have to take these decision . we also have a plan to improve the water quality of chalk stream , which be an issue close to your heart , Madam Deputy Speaker . I believe you have the test in your constituency , and I can beat that with the Stiffkey , the Wensum , the bure and a couple of other . despite the unacceptable storm overflow , the question we need to ask be whether river water quality have get well or bad under privatisation . the difficulty be the lack of comparative datum , because as we have monitor more , we have more datum point identify more discharge that be previously unrecorded . one of the good dataset to look at be invertebrate biodiversity , on which there have be a comprehensive study by the UK Centre for Ecology & Hydrology , analyse 223 , 000 sample take between 1989 and 2018 . it look for biodiversity gain or loss , especially in specie that be particularly sensitive to clean water — the mayfly and the caddisfly . you will be pleased to know , Madam Deputy Speaker , that invertebrate biodiversity have triple in our river over the last 30 year , during the period of privatisation . I be not defend the water company ' lack of inquisitiveness about the number of storm overflow discharge . this terrible problem have to be address , and it be be address by the last Conservative Government , but it prompt the question : have our water get well or bad , in aggregate , over the last 30 year ? the data suggest that it have get considerably well . I will talk about the pro and con of privatisation in term of funding . in my view , there be definite con to the private ownership model we have have over the past 30 year . I concede that some water company have exploit weak regulation to take advantage of their monopolistic position . true competition can not exist because we have monopoly provider . the role of competition be mean to be provide by regulation and , too often , the regulation have be find want , particularly on the financial engineering of the leverage that water company undertake in the noughtie , peak in about 2015 . again , I accept that that be a problem that should have be prevent , but all the major party be guilty and play their part . it start under Labour and continue under the coalition — I be afraid that both the Liberal Democrats and the Conservatives have their fingerprint on this — before stop in about 2015 , when Ofwat belatedly tighten up its provision . member will have notice that the late return on capital allow by Ofwat be , from memory , 3 . 4 % , which I submit be a reasonable return on capital and one that individual might get from a high - interest account . I hope that I have give a balanced assessment of the good and bad of privatisation over the past 30 year . we need to do that , because it be the basis on which we address the next question about the Bill : what be the right mechanism of ownership ? in my view , privatisation have , on balance , be a success , because it have manage to lever in investment to improve our water quality overall , to reduce leakage and outage in the way that I have describe , and to provide we with the safe water in the world . I thank the hon . and learn Member for his contribution to the debate . private water company have invest less than nothing of their private equity in our water system since privatisation — in fact , we have £ 60 billion - worth of debt . I reiterate that taxpayer ' and bill payer ' money have go into the investment in the water system . the private sector have pay less than nothing , so how we can say that a privatised water system — a natural monopoly , for which there be no perfect competition , or no competition at all — be generate innovation or investment ? I fail to see that . the profit motive do promote efficiency in innovation , because company want to minimise their cost and therefore maximise their profit . it also provide access to capital in the manner that I have describe , because there be right issue as well as the recirculation of water bill . it be right that that be the foundation of the business , but it be not the only access to capital , whereas with public ownership , as we be very aware this week , there be limited fund . we can not borrow forever . we have what I think be describe as iron - clothe fiscal rule , which we have hear a bit about recently . we know that this government , and all government , be constrain in their ability to borrow and spend , and that they have other priority , so we will never get a big budget for water if it be in public ownership . the Bill have generate a huge amount of interest . I thoroughly agree with element of it , particularly on nature - base solution , which build on the " plan for Water " publish by the last government in 2022 . if the Bill proceed , there be area that I would like to discuss and develop in Committee , but I will not detain the House any far on they now . I look forward to the progress of the Bill . I thank my hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Norwich South ( Clive Lewis ) for secure this debate and give these important issue the parliamentary attention that they deserve , and for meet I in January , when he highlight his concern about the water industry and helpfully set out what he be try to achieve with the Bill . for several year he have be a fearless environmental campaigner on this and many other issue . I thank all campaigner and the public for their interest in the water industry . they be right to hold the Government ' s foot to the fire and to expect so much well than they have have over the past 14 year . I make the promise to all of they that my duty , my job and what I serve every day in this place to do be to improve and clean up our river , lake and sea and deliver a fair water system to everybody . although there might be difference of opinion in how we get there , the motivation behind the action that I take can not be question . I be grateful for the opportunity to discuss the Bill . I thank all hon . member who have contribute to this important and wide - range debate and all hon . member who have attend — I be not mention the one who do not . my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) , the Chair of the Treasury Committee , make a really important contribution . she talk about the big nastie , those thing that we know when we come into Government would cost so much money , and the competition that water would potentially face from road , rail , school and so much more that need repair . she be right to point out that when we talk about shareholder , sometimes in the public imagination we imagine a rich businessman hold all the share . quite often , however , they be pension fund that would require compensation if we nationalise . if compensation be not provide , it would have an impact on people ' s pension and that would have a real - world impact . will the Minister give way ? I will try to come to everyone ' s contribution in 15 minute — I will try to get through as many as possible . my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch be right to point out the appalling state of our river , the fact that not enough be in good chemical health and that there be much more to do . to reassure she on wet wipe — fatberg be mention — work on legislation to ban they be ongoing . I agree with my right hon . friend the Member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) that there be so much more that we need to do , and that the level of pollution be , of course , unacceptable . I completely support what he say on natural flood prevention and hopefully , if time allow , I will go into that in a little bit more detail . he will be very pleased to know that only a few week ago we release some beaver into the wild to provide some of the natural flood prevention that we all need . the only thing I would say , though , be that we have some of the clean water in the world . in fact , the cleanliness of our drinking water in England be exceptionally high and the UK be rank in the top eight country in the world for drink water safety in the 2024 Environmental Performance Index . I would like thank a very small regulator that do not often get much attention : the Drinking Water Inspectorate , which be responsible for keep our water clean . it do an incredible job and I want to put my thank on the record . I think the water we have in this country be incredibly clean , and I encourage everyone to feel completely safe as they continue to drink it . my hon . friend the Member for Bury North ( Mr Frith ) , in his usual gentlemanly way , praise my hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Norwich South for his service . I completely echo his remark . I make the offer to all member to support they in seek accountability from water company if they require it . that be something I discuss yesterday with water industry rep . if he want to discuss far his request to look at environmental protection for the river , I be happy to take that up . my hon . friend the Member for Ashford ( Sojan Joseph ) highlight the anger the public feel about water pollution and the failure of the past year . he mention a number of primary school — they come up frequently in the debate — and the appalling situation of many people become ill after go in the water . that be completely unacceptable . we take really seriously the impact that water , and enter water , have on public health . it be one of the many reason why I be really pleased that Sir Chris Whitty be on the Independent Water Commission , give his expert evidence . I thank my hon . friend the Member for North West Leicestershire ( Amanda Hack ) for her work on the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill Committee and for her tireless campaign for her constituent who have be flood over the year . she be right to be outrage by pollution level . my hon . friend the Member for Beckenham and Penge ( Liam Conlon ) raise the awful outage and the poor distribution service his constituent face . vulnerable customer should always receive water — it should be deliver . he be quite right to point to the priority service register . one thing I would ask each hon . member to do be to encourage the vulnerable people in their community to be on the priority service register , because they be entitle to support in the event of an outage . I be happy to follow that up with he afterwards , if he want . I echo his thank to the volunteer . I be sure that on Valentine ' s day , as he be go around support his constituent , they feel incredibly love by he as their new Member of Parliament . my hon . friend the Member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North ( Alison Taylor ) talk about the importance of effective regulation and long - term planning in investment . I thank she for her work on the Environmental Audit Committee . I should just highlight — as a former primary school teacher , I can not resist — some of the school mention by my hon . friend the Member for Beckenham and Penge who be involve in eco - society : Daniel at the Langley Park School for Boys , Stewart Fleming primary , Balgowan primary , churchfield primary , Clare House primary , Shortlands primary and St Mark ' s primary . I commend their excellent work on those eco - club , and all those around the country . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] my hon . friend the Member for Bermondsey and Old Southwark ( Neil Coyle ) share his ambition to seek solution to the problem he face . that be exactly what drive I too , and be exactly what we should be do in the Chamber today : seek solution together for the problem we face . I thank he for his work support his constituent . he always have my support on that , although I have no doubt at all that he do not need much support from I in make his voice or his opinion hear , or in hold company to account . my hon . friend the Member for Gateshead Central and Whickham ( Mark Ferguson ) quote Philip Larkin . without go too far into a history lesson , he might not know that Larkin spend many year work at Hull University , so he be celebrate in my constituency too . as a former teacher , I agree about the importance of education and the awful impact that flooding have on school , and I share my hon . friend ' s restlessness for change . ofwat ' s consultation on the bonus ban have come up , so I want to address it head - on . this week Ofwat publish a statutory consultation , which set out the detail of the metric that will trigger the ban and start the clock on implementation . it be right to say that Ofwat originally consult only on ban on the basis of a category 1 or category 2 offence , and that it be look at introduce a more holistic measure of environmental performance through the use of the EA ' s environmental performance assessment . for those who be not aware , the EPA have a number of different metric , include category 1 and category 2 offence for serious pollution incident , but it also include self - reporting , discharge permit compliance , the use and disposal of sludge , and , as have come up in today ' s debate , outage . those be all holistically put together into one rating . however , I and the public have be crystal clear about our expectation that bonus should be ban for pollute water boss , so should the consultation reveal that the propose metric need strengthen , Ofwat will review they ahead of final implementation . my hon . friend the Member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) say that much more need to be do , and she be right to point out the impact of leak on pothole and the wide damage . she always make very thoughtful contribution , and I join she in celebrate the Government ' s scheme to tackle tax avoidance . I be delighted that I get a chance to meet Sir Steve Redgrave the other day when he and rower from Reading University come into DEFRA to hand I a letter and talk about the importance of have clean river in which to row . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Stockton North ( Chris McDonald ) for support the Water ( Special Measures ) Act . I like the idea of river be part of our identity and shape people — what a lovely message to leave we all with . my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tristan Osborne ) thank his campaign group for their advocacy . he be right to say that this Bill be part of the Government ' s plan for change , and of course we want to deliver more , but public ownership be not a magic bullet to fix this problem . my hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Norwich South say that we can do thing well , and we absolutely can . this Labour Government be elect on a manifesto for change , and with a plan for change . the Labour party be create to serve work people and the work class , and it our duty to do so . that be what drive we every single day . there be little trust in politic and in politician as a force for good . the benefit of the doubt be never give to politician ; when people be ask about something , the assumption be always that we have an ulterior motive . the only way we can change the public ' s opinion of politician be by deliver change . my hon . friend talk about ideology drive we , but it be quite simple : I be entirely focused on do everything I can to clean up our waterway . I care about the public be rip off , I care about the people work for water company on the frontline , who face abuse for the job they do , and I care desperately about the natural environment . this be what drive I , and it be what I will be judge on . my approach to decision be always quite simple : it be about how I can deliver on my aim in the fairest and quick way possible . yes , we can do well , and we be do well . I expect all member to hold I to account on do well every day . on walk into DEFRA , I be tell that a meeting would take place on my very first day . we meet all the water company , and we get they to change their article of association and put customer representative on their board . in week four of the new Parliament , we introduce the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill , which be a down payment on future reform — it be never intend to be the solution to all the problem . a couple of month later , we launch the Independent Water Commission to fundamentally reset the entire industry . then we change the rule on bathing water . then we secure £ 104 billion of investment in the water industry . then we do the call for evidence . I be now visit all water board up and down the country to hold they to account for the promise that they have make , and to make sure that they deliver on end water poverty by 2030 . I will do more , because this be what I care about and the Government care about . it be about deliver change in this place . that be what we be elect to do . I want to make one thing clear , if nothing else : this Government be absolutely committed to improve the performance of the water sector . I want to say a little more about the abuse that employee be face . I have hear about this from the trade union , and it matter a lot to I . employee who be go down to fix sewage main or deal with pollution incident be not the one responsible for the problem , yet they face a lot of abuse when they go out and do their job . I would hope that all of we , regardless of our opinion of water company , ownership or model , would agree that abuse the people on the frontline who be try to clean up the mess be unacceptable . the employee and trade union who be talk to I about this have my full and complete support . I have pretty much run out of time , but briefly , I often see criticism when we talk about the cost of nationalisation . People say , " you ' re quote this think - tank " — the Social Market Foundation — " and those figure be wrong . " one of the thing I do when I come in be interrogate the figure on the cost of nationalisation . the £ 99 billion cost of nationalisation that the Government use be base on Ofwat ' s regulatory capital value 2024 estimate . that do not include the Bazalgette tunnel , an asset which would be include in that figure . I often get tell that we be use different cost , so I want to explain that that be where we get the figure from . that be the regulated capital value of the asset we have , but that do not assume the ongoing cost . assume we would want to deliver PR24 , we would be talk about £ 104 billion of investment over the next five year , plus the cost of acquire asset . I want to be really clear about the figure I be use . I will come back to agricultural pollution , because I know the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) care a lot about it . agriculture and rural land management account for around 70 % of land use . it be one of the great source of water pollution in England , affect 45 % of our water body . the level of pollution be unacceptable . that be why clean up our river , lake and sea be a priority of this Government . we be work with farmer to reduce pollution , which be key to deliver against this priority . we have commit to a rapid review of the environment and improvement plan , which will set out how DEFRA will deliver these legally bind target . the Government will develop a new statutory plan to protect and restore our national environment with delivery plan to meet each of our ambitious environmental target , which include clean up the waterway . we be take action to tackle agriculture pollution and deliver the Environment Act 2021 through a suite of proportionate and effective regulation , advice and incentive . to conclude , the call for evidence for the Water Commission be now live , so if anyone in this House want to assemble a group of citizen to come together in their local community to discuss this and put their evidence forward , I would entirely welcome that . this government will not stop until we achieve what we promise in our manifesto , which be to clean up our river , lake and sea . that be what drive I and motivate I , and that be what I will continue work on . with the leave of the House , I will not get back into a tit for tat over some of the comment that have be make at the Dispatch Box , because I would like to thank everyone who contribute to this fabulous debate on a critical issue . I think that most of we want to get to the same place : we want clean , drinkable , swimmable , and surfable water . I thank everyone who take part in this debate . I thank the Minister for all the work she be do and will be do . I thank the opposition too . even my wife Katy Lewis turn up today to come and listen , so I thank she for that . it be probably the long say I have have in a debate in quite a while — I will not hear the end of that for a while , I be sure . I will finish on this point . I sometimes wonder what would happen if the NHS do not exist and we in this place have to come together to decide how we be go to provide healthcare for the people of this country . have listen to today ' s debate , I think this place would say that it be too difficult to create a national healthcare system and that we could not do something base on need , rather than on profitability and private sector investment . yet we manage to do that after the second world war , which have absolutely obliterate our public finance , because we know it be right , and we know that some thing be not to be judge by their profitability , because they be thing that we need . our health be one such thing , and I and million of other people believe that water be one of they too . I hope that at some point , those on the Benches on my side of this House — my government — will acknowledge that and do something about it . order , that the debate be now adjourn . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) debate to be resume on Friday 4 July . look after child ( Distance Placements ) Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . I be grateful for the opportunity to bring this Bill before the House . on enter politic , I be determined to raise the issue of child in care and , in particular , the lack of safe , decent accommodation for the most vulnerable child . the state ' s endure failure to meet its most basic duty to care for those child for whom their family be unable to care continue to shock I , as it should shock we all . I want to play my part and make a difference , because this matter be close to my heart — not from experience of the care system myself , but from the insight I take from an adjacent perspective before be elect . I practise as a barrister before enter this place , often in public law and family law , work on complex and heartbreaking case involve child in care . I represent local authority try to safeguard child , parent fight to keep their family together and child at the heart of the proceeding . time and again I see the same pattern : child be remove from their family for their own safety , but they have no place to go . on a Friday afternoon , when I be a very junior barrister , I would often be instruct to attend court for an urgent application to remove a child from their family before the weekend . those be distress case , but upon draft the order my work would be do . I would set off to enjoy the weekend , but I know that for the social work team and , more importantly , for the family involve , the traumatic set of event have only just begin . the process of remove a child can of course be incredibly difficult ; the police may be involve , and parent can be force into an emotional goodbye . even once a child be in the care of a local authority , there would be desperate last - minute search for suitable temporary accommodation . foster carer would be ask if they could take the child just for a weekend , and residential unit would be call to see if they have a spare bed . too often , I be tell by social worker of child wait at local authority office late into the night while these inquiry take place . on one occasion I be tell that a child sleep on an office floor because there be no safe place for they to be place . my Bill aim to make a very modest but significant change to the way we approach our responsibility to the child ' s social care estate — in particular , the lack of any meaningful strategy or local initiative to ensure that there be good , safe care place in every locality across the country , so that child be not place mile and mile away from their community , family , school and friend . in recent year we have see a deeply troubling trend of child in care be place far from home , sometimes hundred of mile from their community , school and support network , and those placement be no long exceptional : they be become the norm . new datum obtain through a freedom of information request I submit reveal that nearly 10 % of all child in care in England now live more than 50 mile from home . some 4 % live more than 100 mile from home . the number of child place more than 50 mile from home have rise from just over 6 , 000 in 2020 to well over 7 , 000 in 2024 . those be not isolate outlier ; they be thousand of child send far from their school and support network , and often their sibling and other family member , not because it be in their good interest , but because there be simply nowhere nearby for they to go . even more worryingly , some child be now be place across border . the number of child in England move out of the country , primarily to Wales and Scotland , have rise by 9 % since 2020 . placement in Wales alone have increase by 15 % over that time . these cross - border move be even more complex , take child away from the oversight of their place authority and often into different jurisdiction , with entirely different education and care system . those decision be not take through incompetence ; they be the result of a system that lack capacity , co - ordination and meaningful planning , and the impact on child ' s life , their education , their mental health and their relationship be profound . because these be look - after child — a phrase that ought to promise protection but too often ring hollow — their need be bureaucratise , their voice be marginalise and their life be shift like chess piece on a board they never ask to be part of . distant placement be no long exceptional , but systemic . in some local authority , more than 70 % of look - after child be place outside the home area . I thank my hon . friend not just for his passion in bring forward this Bill , but for his service as a lawyer before enter this place . he bring that expertise from his previous profession here . will he join I in acknowledge that in place such as Plymouth this problem can be even more acute ? Plymouth be not particularly near other large city , so the tendency be for child to be place in care very far away — sometimes 50 or even 100 mile away , as he highlight . as he get to the part of his speech where he highlight some statistic , will he just acknowledge — Order . may I just point out to Members that intervention , while always welcome , do need to be brief than that ? my hon . friend be right . there be a particular problem in the south - west — his part of the country — and in his constituency , which he represent so ably . in fact , there be some care leaver with that experience in the Public Gallery who be from that part of the world . there be particular issue there . my Bill do not seek to overhaul the care system or burden already stretch local authority . it set out three clear practical measure . first , it would place a statutory duty on local authority to collect and publish datum on distant placement — specifically , how many child be place more than 20 mile from home , and how many have be move in the past year due to a lack of suitable local provision . secondly , it would require every local authority in England to produce an annual local sufficiency plan , which be a clear , forward - look strategy set out how they will meet their duty under section 22 g of the Children Act 1989 to secure sufficient accommodation in their area . thirdly , it would introduce a duty on the Secretary of State for Education to publish a national sufficiency plan after each financial year . that strategy must bring together the datum collect from local authority , and set out what action the Government be take to support council in meet their duty . that , in my mind , be a sensible , common - sense approach . this government clearly take their responsibility in this area seriously , but future government may not . this initiative will keep their foot to the fire . together , those three provision introduce something that our current system clearly lack : clarity , co - ordination and accountability . the Bill do not ban distant placement . it rightly make space for case where distance be necessary , whether for safety , for therapeutic care or for stability . there need to be flexibility in the system . I be pleased to be join in the Gallery today by Georgia and Kane , two care - experienced young people whose courage and insight continue to shape this debate . in fact , this Bill would not be before the House if it be not for they and many of their friend and colleague who have campaign so passionately on this issue . their story be vital , because behind every placement statistic , every sufficiency plan and every consultation document , there be real life shape by the decision that the Government make and that we make in this place . Kane , at just 16 year old , be move from his foster home near Kingsteignton to support accommodation far away in Exmouth . the move separate he from his twin sister and leave he feel alone and invisible . Georgia ' s journey mean that she move multiple time while in care and spend extended period in mental health hospital as a teenager , often far from home . she recently tell the Education Committee how she have to be declare homeless in order to access the support she need near to her network . she describe a kinship placement that offer love , stability and safety , but that break down because her carer receive no formal support . she be leave navigate high - risk support accommodation alone , often live alongside people experience exploitation and with serious mental health need , all while try to complete her a - level . do my hon . friend welcome the Government ' s important change , include the support from local authority , for kinship carer , such as those I meet in Beckenham and Penge ? my hon . friend make an important point . I know that the Government and the Minister take kinship carer and the care system very seriously , and the Government have introduce a number of measure already . that be very welcome in their first 12 month — it emphasise just how seriously they take these matter — and it be part of the strategy of solve this problem of distance placement . when child can stay in the family , they should . do my hon . friend agree that the register of child that be be introduce through the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill be a start to what he be advocate ? know exactly where child be at any give point would be a healthy start for we . absolutely — that be one of the most welcome measure in that Bill , introduce to this Parliament in its first session . datum can be quite a boring topic , but it be so important , because it allow everyone — include this place , journalist and campaign organisation — to hold the Government ' s foot to the fire and hold they to account . while it may seem a dry and conservative development , that register could be really important in make sure we have as much information about what be go on as we can , in particular for child in care , who so often be voiceless . we need to make sure their voice be hear . for every Georgia and Kane who find the strength and platform to speak , as I be just talk about , there be countless other whose experience remain unheard — young people move from their home with no explanation , no warning and no real choice . Georgia and Kane be remarkable campaigner , and now it be our duty to respond , not with sympathy alone but with serious structural reform . I hope that this Bill can help form part of that response . the hon . Member be make a very powerful speech , and I echo his point about the voice of young people themselves be hear in these debate . I hope that the Minister will look kindly on the opportunity to introduce the measure in this Bill , perhaps by add they to the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill in the Lords . however , do the hon . Member agree that we be spend more and more on take child into care because we be fail they and their family early on ? in addition to the measure in his Bill , do he agree that we need to invest more in support child and family early , so that few child end up be take into care in the first place ? absolutely . care should always be the last resort , and later in my speech I will speak about the false economy of spend billion of pound on a care system that be fail child — most importantly — but also the taxpayer and everyone else . early intervention be absolutely critical , so I completely agree with the hon . member ' s point . how have we get to this stage where , as I have just touch on , the system be fail in so many different aspect ? the reason be complex . too often , distant placement simply reflect a chronic lack of local provision , with a market - drive care system unable or unwilling to provide safe , nurture home close to where child live . as we have hear , the result be thousand of child be let down by a fail system . one of the most significant contribution to the Government ' s Bill , and indeed to our understanding of the whole system , be the independent review of child ' s social care lead by my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) . that review lay bare a system that be under immense strain , one in which the need of child be too often shape by market force and a postcode lottery rather than what be in the good interest of those child , which be what the Protection of Children Act 1978 require and should shape all Government policy . my hon . friend ' s review could not have be clear : too many child be be place far from home . it call for a fundamental reset — a shift from a reactive , fragmented care system to one ground in early intervention , as the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) have advocate for , with strong relationship and home that be local , loving and stable . it warn of a dangerous reliance on large private provider , many of which operate with little accountability and at high cost . we could have a whole separate debate about the extortionate cost of private company in the care system and the profit they be make on the back of desperate local authority . that review also make a powerful case for rethink the way in which we plan for care , argue that the absence of a join - up national approach have leave too many child at risk of instability , isolation and , in some case , real harm . we know from council that the crisis in placement sufficiency be leave they with little choice . they face a dire shortage of foster carer , especially those train to provide therapeutic support , and they be lock in bidding war with other local authority , or price out by private provider demand fee that would make even a well - resource system buckle . if the state be go to remove a child from their family and their community — an enormous , draconian power and responsibility — the least it can do be ensure that every child do not lose everything else in the process . we must not only protect child , but nurture they ; we must provide not just safety , but stability . I hope that the Bill lay the groundwork for that ambition . it would ensure that we do not just talk about sufficiency but plan for it . it would ensure that we treat datum not as a bureaucratic requirement , but as the foundation of good care , and it would ensure that Parliament play a role in scrutinise the system , rather than simply react to its failure . the Bill would not ban distance placement , because , as I have touch on , there will always be case where a child must be move , but it say firmly that they should never be the default . placement should never be drive by gap in provision , lack of planning or market dysfunction , and the Government must take a leading role in change the care system . as I have say , I welcome the legislation go through Parliament , and I applaud the Education Secretary , and in particular the Under - Secretary of State for Education , my hon . friend the Member for Lewisham East ( Janet Daby ) , who be in her place , for put child in care front and centre of the Government ' s agenda . that have not happen for many decade ; many government of different colour have fail to properly grasp the issue , but I be pleased that the Government be do so . however , I urge they to go far . I fear that some measure and ambition will be lose if we do not ensure that the care estate in every locality improve its capacity . the Department have a wide array of challenge , and this be a particularly difficult one , but the Bill , which would be essentially cost - neutral , would keep the focus on the agenda without place too much responsibility on local authority . the Government know that , yes , they must work in partnership with local authority , but they must also take strategic decision about where provision be need , how it be fund and how we ensure that market dynamic do not dictate child ' s future . I want to be clear that none of this speech be about blame council or local authority , many of which be do their level well under enormous financial constraint , and be firefighte in a system in which the odd be stack against they . I hope that this modest Bill can give they the tool that they need to plan , build and provide , rather than simply outsource and hope for the good . the Bill would change expectation by restore proximity as the norm , and place the burden of justification on those who propose to go against that norm . if it be our child , we would expect they to stay close to home and their community , where they feel safe . we would expect a proper plan . ultimately , that be all the Bill ask of the Government . the child in our care system deserve nothing less . for that reason , I commend the Bill to the House . as there be no far back - Bench speaker , I call the shadow Minister . I be pleased to contribute to this important debate , and I congratulate the hon . member for Rother Valley ( Jake Richards ) on bring the Bill before the House . I commend he for shine a spotlight on an issue that affect some of the most vulnerable child in the country . these child be not simply statistic or case number ; they be young people who have experience trauma , instability and , in many case , loss . it be essential that they get the love home and the support that they deserve , so that they can flourish . he have bring this issue to the House with compassion and care , and I commend he for do so . as a serve Surrey county councillor and a former member of the corporate parenting board , this be an issue close to my heart , too . I have see at first hand many of the challenge and systemic failing that have be talk about . as be set out , local authority have a duty , so far as reasonably practicable , to ensure that look - after child be place in accommodation that meet their need in the local area , but many local authority fail to achieve that , and often shockingly high number of child be place out of area . I be sure that the inclusion of the word , " so far as reasonably practicable " be intend to give some leeway to local authority where need , and to recognise that sometimes distance placement be in the good interest of the child . however , I be afraid that in far too many case those word have become a licence for abject failure . yes , I accept that there be many challenge for local authority in meet their duty , include the high cost of living , which make it difficult to recruit and retain foster carer ; the increase national demand for placement ; and even the recent ban on use unregulated accommodation for 16 and 17 - year - old . those pressure be real , but it be unacceptable that high number of look - after child be be place in accommodation far away from the community that they know — far from their school , their extended family and their support network . such placement be often make not because they be see as the good option for the child , but because there be simply nowhere else to put they . the problem be that it become almost normal to send high number of child out of area , so it become more acceptable . I be here to say that , except in specific case , it be not acceptable . local authority and national Government need to do more to ensure that the sufficiency duty be meet . the wellbeing and safety of these vulnerable child depend upon it . the damaging consequence of these long - distance placement be obvious . child place mile away be more likely to experience educational disruption , go missing and lose contact with friend , sibling and trust adult . in some case , the sense of be cut adrift from everything familiar only deepen an already present feeling of abandonment . it should be note that these placement be often beyond the local authority boundary , give rise to myriad further risk . it be self - evident that the system need further intervention , and I be pleased that any policy decision take in the future will build on the major reform introduce by the previous Conservative Government . perhaps the most impactful reform in this space be the introduction of the staying put policy in 2014 , which allow young people in foster care to remain with their foster family until the age of 21 . that be a transformational step . for the first time , young people in care be offer the stability and ongoing familial support that many of their peer take for grant . it be also the previous Conservative Government who roll out regional adoption agency , which be design to reduce delay in the adoption process and increase the number of child find permanent , love home . since their introduction , adoption timeliness have improve , and agency have be well able to match child with prospective parent across wide geographical area . we also publish our strategy and consultation , " child ' s Social Care : Stable Homes , build on Love " . our strategy be back initially by £ 200 million of additional investment over two year to transform child ' s social care , include by deliver a decisive multi - agency child protection system and ensure that every child have a value , support and highly - skilled social worker when need . finally , the publication of the independent review of child ' s social care in 2022 , commission by the last government , be a landmark moment . it provide a comprehensive and honest assessment of the system ' s challenge , and offer a road map for reform focus on early intervention , family help and a more relational , less transactional model of care . those milestone , take together , demonstrate that we have always take the need of look - after child seriously , and we will continue to work constructively alongside Government member to improve the support available to these child ; I know Government Members have the same overarching objective of transform life outcome for these child . I return to the Bill . the ambition of improve the transparency of datum about placement of look - after child be much welcome . the Bill would place a duty on local authority to publish such information , make it easy to identify where there be issue , and where local authority be not perform . we will start to see tangible improvement only when the extent of the issue nationally be clearly lay out . as be often the way , measurement prompt improvement . undoubtedly , one of the most consequential aspect of the Bill be the requirement for the Secretary of State to produce a national sufficiency strategy for look - after child . local authority can and should do more to collaborate at regional level to ensure that child be put in placement close to their home , but the structural challenge face likely can not be solve by local government alone . national leadership be essential , and I urge Ministers to look seriously at how good to increase placement capacity where there be shortage , and at how to ensure that the right child end up in the right location , not just the cheap location . that be not to say that local authority be not at the heart of this challenge — they be — but I know that they find it increasingly difficult . the residential care market be now heavily dominate by private provider , and the cost of placement continue to rise , place a huge strain on local authority budget . a shift to a more strategic approach be need , and I recognise that the hon . member for Rother Valley have seek to kick - start that shift with the requirement in his Bill for local sufficiency strategy to be publish by local authority in England . at this point , I should acknowledge that for all the justifiable talk today against distance placement , there be a very limited set of circumstance in which they be appropriate and necessary . some child need specialist provision that simply do not exist locally . other may need to be place at a distance to ensure their safety if they have become involve with gang or be threaten by an abuser . the question be not whether distance placement should be ban — they should not — but how we can get to a point where they be use only when it be truly and demonstrably in the good interest of the child . a key focus be how we recruit , retain and support foster carer , and how we encourage local authority to invest in local residential provision at a time of such pressure on their budget . many of the answer lie in not only legislation but funding , training and leadership , both local and national . I look forward to the Minister ' s comment on these important issue . when a child be take into care , the state become their parent . that be not a responsibility to ever be exercise lightly . we must hold ourselves and the system we put in place to the high standard — the standard we would expect and demand for our own child . the hon . member for Rother Valley have bring this Bill forward in precisely that spirit , and I congratulate he once again on do so . it be truly a pleasure to speak on it . I be pleased that the Bill provide the opportunity to consider the importance of residential child ' s home , and the sufficiency of placement . my hon . friend the Member for Rother Valley ( Jake Richards ) will be familiar with the many significant issue that this Government have inherit and be have to resolve in order to fix the foundation , so that we can make a range of reform across child ' s social care . those reform include address the underlie issue that contribute to the country ' s shortage of suitable placement for child in care . I share my hon . friend ' s concern about the important issue raise in his Bill , and agree that change be need to help local authority well meet the need of the child in their care . reform child ' s social care be critical to give hundred of thousand of child and young people the start in life that they deserve . in November , we publish " keep child safe , help family thrive , " which set out our approach . as my hon . friend will be aware , the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill be progress through the other place . our reform will help to ensure opportunity for not just some but all child . our approach to reform will break down barrier by shift the focus in child ' s social care to early support , early help and early intervention , so that we can keep family together and child safe . our plan will help to ensure that child can remain with their family , where that be in their good interest , and will support more child so that they can live with kinship carer or in foster family , and we will fix the break care market to tackle profiteer and put child ' s need first . before I turn to the Bill , I want to put on record that I be clear that a child should be place far away from their home only when that be in their good interest . in the current system , however , a lack of availability of suitable local placement be too often the decide factor for too many child , who end up be place in care far away from their home and community . this situation may have be acceptable under the previous Government , but it be not acceptable to this one . we must change it , and we will . we be already work with local authority to do so . I have meet many campaign group , and have speak to young people and professional about this specific area of change . local authority have an exist duty to collect datum on out - of - area placement . since become Minister , I have come to realise that this data be actually publish every year . the proposal in this Bill be therefore unlikely to tell we anything new about local authority sufficiency that will help . the data tell we that as of 31 March 2024 , more than two third of child be place less than 20 mile from their home , but that 45 % of child be place outside their local authority boundary . that be not good enough . however , the statistic cover many situation where a placement far away be in the child ' s good interest , and where that be part of the care plan , rather than it be due to local insufficiency . I absolutely agree that bold action be need to improve sufficiency , but the variety and complexity of child ' s need and their individual situation mean that we can not always easily categorise distance placement as inappropriate . local authority staff work hard to find placement in really challenging situation . if a placement be find that good meet a child ' s need , but it be some distance away , the issue will be ensure the child ' s safety and wellbeing , and ensure that contact be sustain , where that be appropriate . furthermore , require national Government to publish sufficiency plan misunderstand the way that duty and funding operate in this space , and risk create confusion . responsibility sit at local authority level and it be not for national Government to assess the level or type of need in each area , or how that need be well meet . my hon . friend the Member for Rother Valley ' s Bill include proposal for — the debate stand adjourn ( Standing Order No . 11 ( 2 ) ) . order , that the debate be resume on Friday 11 July . business without Debate Homelessness Prevention Bill Bill read a second time ; to stand committed to a Public Bill Committee ( Standing Order no . 63 ) Domestic Building Works ( Consumer Protection ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 13 June . exemption from Value Added Tax ( list place of worship ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 25 April . exemption from Value Added Tax ( Miscellaneous Provisions ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 25 April . Caravan Site Licensing ( Exemptions of Motor Homes ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 25 April . Vehicle Registration Documents ( Sale of Vehicle ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 5 September . Nurse ( Use of Title ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 June . woman ' s State Pension Age ( Ombudsman Report and Compensation Scheme ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 4 July . arm ' s - Length Bodies ( Review ) Bill owe to an error in the Public Bill Office and through no fault of the Member in charge , this Bill be originally print with an incorrect title and appear incorrectly on the Order Paper for Friday 14 March . it have now be reprint with the correct text . the correct version of the Bill be available online and in the Vote Office . Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 25 April . Public Health ( Control of Disease ) Act 1984 ( amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 25 April . Statutory Instruments Act 1946 ( amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 25 April . dangerous Dogs Act 1991 ( amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 25 April . Domestic Energy ( Value Added Tax ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 25 April . BBC Licence Fee Non - Payment ( decriminalisation for over - 75 ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 25 April . Quantitative Easing ( prohibition ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 25 April . pet ( Microchips ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 25 April . Covid - 19 Vaccine Damage Payments Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 25 April . Anonymity of Suspects Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 25 April . child ' s Clothing ( Value Added Tax ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 25 April . Highways Act 1980 ( Amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 25 April . British Broadcasting Corporation ( Privatisation ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 25 April . Illegal Immigration ( Offences ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 25 April . Vaccine Damage Payments Act ( Review ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 25 April . NHS England ( Alternative Treatment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 25 April . Terminal Illness ( Relief of Pain ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 25 April . Covid - 19 Vaccine Damage Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 25 April . marriage ( prohibit Degrees of Relationship ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 18 July . Mobile Homes Act 1983 ( amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 25 April . Sentencing Council ( Powers of Secretary of State ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 25 April . arm ' s - Length Bodies ( accountability to Parliament ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 25 April . Down Syndrome Act 2022 : Local Authority Guidance Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) I feel so strongly about the subject of this debate because of one particular campaigner in my constituency , Millie - Anna . her commitment to raise awareness and campaign on a range of issue for people with Down syndrome be inspiring . she be a lead light for people with this condition everywhere . the main thing I have learn from my discussion with Millie since become her Member of Parliament be that , when make policy that affect people with Down syndrome , the good thing that the Government can do be listen to those who actually live with it , as well as their family and group such as the National Down Syndrome Policy Group . that be why I put in for this debate today : to urge the Minister and her Department to listen to group such as the all - party parliamentary group on Down syndrome and the National Down Syndrome Policy Group , and to make publish the Down Syndrome Act guidance , which this Parliament have compel the state to do , a Government priority . the guidance be essential for make sure that those with Down syndrome be treat with the respect and dignity that they deserve across a range of public body — from the NHS and the school system to other local authority service such as housing . if do well , it could set the gold standard for publish other guidance for those with unique condition . importantly , the guidance must be specific to the unique need of those with Down syndrome . People with Down syndrome may sometimes have learn disability , but Down syndrome be not a learn disability . in my view , the civil servant be seek an easy life by mop up the issue with everything else , but that be not what Parliament have tell they to do . the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care rightly call out NHS England as a public body that serve the institution rather than patient and the instruction of this House , but frankly , when it come to this matter , the Minister need to look at the Department of Health and Social Care itself . in the Department ' s call for evidence , it be moot that the guidance could be extend to cover those with broad learning disability . that be never the purpose of the Act and risk water down the legislation so far as to make it meaningless , particularly give that the call for evidence also make it clear that the need of those with Down syndrome be distinct . the extension of the guidance would undermine the Act ' s whole reason for be . will the Minister commit to separate learning disability from the guidance completely and instead add a supplementary document ? that would be a way of please all interested party without water down the guidance . currently , only 25 % of those with Down syndrome be include in mainstream secondary school . some 94 % be unemployed , and sadly their life expectancy be just two third that of the general population . if we provide authority with specific guidance , I really believe that we can move the dial and that those with Down syndrome can play a full role in society and be afford the opportunity that they deserve . specific guidance have the power to improve health outcome by direct NHS professional , and it will improve school outcome , as it will stop those with Down syndrome from automatically be push towards specialist school when they may benefit from be in the mainstream . as part of that , I hope that the Minister will be able to confirm that professional deliver service to people with Down syndrome will have to undertake down syndrome - specific training and that that will be include in the forthcoming guidance . the publication date for the draft guidance have face multiple delay ; the most recent extension — that it should be publish by Easter — have be postpone yet again . the new target be set for the summer . Sir Liam Fox ' s Act get on to the statute book as far back as 2022 , but still family be leave wait . I say it again : Parliament have give its instruction and the relevant official should get on with it . unfortunately , today be just the late in a long list of debate , question and letter from the all - party parliamentary group and the National Down Syndrome Policy Group , which time and again have be brush aside and ignore . follow the passing of the Act , each integrate care board in England have be require to have a board - level executive lead for Down syndrome , who be accountable for ensure that the ICB meet its duty and support people with Down syndrome effectively , include implement the Down Syndrome Act 2022 . however , as my right hon . friend the Member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) point out last week in his Westminster Hall debate , there be currently only three list lead for the 42 icb in England . progress have be far too slow in all these area . that , frankly , be an affront to the democratic process and reflect badly on this country . although I recognise the difficulty in transition from one Government to the next , I feel strongly that this issue need to be at the top of the list of the Minister ' s priority . this be about a bind statute and it be really not a party political matter . even when submit my application for this debate to the Table Office , my original wording be flag because the commitment be officially make under the previous Government . I be sure that that be some kind of administrative confusion , but will the Minister commit to the official record that bring the guidance forward be also a policy of this new Government ? when Sir Liam ' s Act be pass , it be a landmark piece of legislation . it give so much hope to family across the country and send the message that their campaigning and hard work have be reward but , as be so often the case , mp now face an ongoing battle with the grind whitehall machine . as well as specific guidance be necessary , the Act create accountability in public institution . I be afraid that the Minister ' s official be again drag their foot in their own self - interest . they have never want to set the precedent that the public could find someone accountable and responsible for their care . God forbid anybody in the british state should be hold accountable , but Parliament have legislate to give instruction , and I want my constituent with Down syndrome to know who be responsible for their care . in get on with it and properly capture people ' s unique need in the specific guidance , the Government need to engage with the right people . however , of the key stakeholder group task with develop this guidance , only three of the 11 organisation involve be specifically focus on Down syndrome and be expert in the condition . furthermore , the civil service have admit in correspondence that it be unsure of the specific need of those with Down syndrome . this be understandable , but why not listen to those who do understand , those who be part of the community and the Down syndrome appg ? why not listen to people like Millie Anna ? the APPG and the NDSPG have be push for a meeting for six month , and I be afraid to say that each time they have be rebuff with a generic response . I hope that my raise this issue today , follow last week ' s debate secure by my right hon . friend the Member for Beverley and Holderness , will be the wake - up call the Government need to take this issue seriously . Sir Liam have contact the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee to request an inquiry into this ongoing issue and to explore the reason for the delay in the publication of the guidance . this be something I wholeheartedly support . from my discussion with the APPG , I know it have find that the Minister ' s response to last week ' s Westminster Hall debate leave many unanswered question , so I hope that bring this topic back to Parliament today have give the Minister a chance to develop her response . I be afraid to say it be also notable that the Minister responsible for this area of policy have be absent from both this debate and last week ' s debate , and I would be grateful if the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , the hon . member for West Lancashire ( Ashley Dalton ) , will pass on my ask . give the delay and the treatment of the Down syndrome community , which have be far from ideal , I now think that a meeting with the Secretary of State be require to reassure those with Down syndrome that the Government have not forget they . will the Minister commit today to arrange such a meeting in the very near future ? we need to get this guidance publish as a priority , but only if it reflect the true intention of Sir Liam ' s original Bill — specific to down syndrome and with proper accountability . I thank the Minister for make the time today . I look forward to her response on all these issue , particularly on : arrange a meeting ; separate learn disability from Down syndrome in the guidance ; the current lack of ICB lead ; and a timeline for the publication of the guidance associate with the Act . I thank the hon . member for Windsor ( Jack Rankin ) for secure this debate on such an important topic . I be also grateful to he for his work with the all - party parliamentary group on Down syndrome . People with Down syndrome should have the same opportunity to participate fully in society like everyone else , but we know this do not always happen . there be a press need to raise awareness of the need of people with Down syndrome and how they can be meet . while every person with Down syndrome be a unique individual , they often face common health risk . for example , we know that almost half of child with Down syndrome be bear with a heart condition . we also know that people with Down syndrome may need additional support with their speech , hearing or vision . and as the average life expectancy of a person with Down syndrome continue to rise — an increase I be very pleased to see — this mean that more people require additional support in later life . this may be additional support with new , age - relate health need , as well as increase demand for social care service . this Government be commit to ensure that all people with Down syndrome receive the care and support they need to lead the life they want in their community , and we be take action to achieve that by implement the Down Syndrome Act . the Act lay the foundation to ensure that every person with Down syndrome can live a full and fulfil life through access the health and care service they need , receive the right education , secure appropriate living arrangement that work for they , and be support into employment . we recognise that there be still much to do to achieve that , but I can assure the hon . Gentleman and the House that the Government be work on the implementation of the Act as a priority . the Down Syndrome Act require the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care to give guidance to relevant authority in health , social care — include local authority — education and housing service on what they should be do to meet the need of people with Down syndrome . early this month , Minister Kinnock write to sector partner and the all - party parliamentary group on Down syndrome with an update on the development of the guidance , include the Government ' s plan to put the guidance out for consultation by the summer . that follow a roundtable on 26 November , which Minister Kinnock — Order . oh , sorry ! twice ! I ' m so sorry ! that follow a roundtable on 26 November , which the Minister for Care , my hon . friend the Member for Aberafan Maesteg ( Stephen Kinnock ) convene to discuss with partner how we can improve life outcome for people with Down syndrome and the opportunity that the guidance present in support of that . we appreciate that many of the issue that have be raise be bear out of a desire to ensure the guidance be as effective as possible and publish as soon as possible . we know just how important the guidance be . I can assure the hon . Gentleman that a huge amount of work have be , and continue to be , carry out to develop the guidance . and we , like other , want to make sure the guidance be fit for purpose and impactful . it have be vital that people with live experience , and the organisation that work to support they , be involve at every stage of the work to develop the guidance . a range of sector engagement have take place . that include a national call for evidence , partner work group , and a review of evidence to gain a well understanding of the specific need of people with Down syndrome . throughout the process , there have be difference in opinion on the scope of the guidance and how it should be draft . official have work hard to build consensus on these issue , but , as I be sure member can appreciate , it be not always possible to resolve differ opinion quickly , especially on a topic as important as this . while that mean the development of the guidance have take long than we all have hope , it be only right that the issue be give the due consideration they deserve . the Minister responsible set out his position on the issue at hand in his recent letter to sector partner . our position remain that the guidance will be down syndrome - specific , in accordance with the Government ' s statutory duty under the Act . it be our intention to include reference to where the guidance could have wide benefit . that be in line with the commitment make during the Bill ' s passage through Parliament . this be not about move the focus away from Down syndrome . the guidance be about meet the need of people with Down syndrome . it be about take the opportunity , through the guidance , to help as many people as possible . official will continue to work with partner to ensure the guidance have the maximum benefit for all community involve . I can confirm to the hon . Gentleman that I have today secure a commitment that the Minister will work with sector partner to ensure that people with Down syndrome have direct access to , and be support in take part in , the consultation . I would like to thank the individual and organisation across the country who have work tirelessly to help we develop the guidance . their contribution have be invaluable throughout , and we appreciate their continue patience while we work to finalise the guidance for consultation . we would also welcome their support to ensure that the community they represent be aware of the consultation and can share their view . we be grateful to member of the all - party parliamentary group on Down syndrome for their engagement and can assure they that their comment on the guidance have be consider throughout the development process . the Minister in charge write to the APPG on 18 March . official will share a second draft of the guidance with sector partner for feedback in the come week . I can assure the hon . Gentleman that I will pass on his comment to the Minister responsible , as request . on specific training , under exist legislation , Care Quality Commission - register provider must ensure that staff receive the appropriate professional development necessary for they to carry out their duty , and must receive specific training on learn disability and autism appropriate to their role . we expect that provider should be consider whether specific training on Down syndrome be require for their staff . official will work with stakeholder to signpost that effectively in the guidance we be develop under the Down Syndrome Act . I thank again the hon . gentleman for secure this important debate . question put and agree to . House adjourn .