I start by pay tribute to the family who be in the Gallery and to those who be not . as the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) say , I have some personal experience in these matter , and I know just how painful it be to have a love one detain overseas , often for long period and with great uncertainty about next step . I have meet many of those who be in the Public Gallery . they be a tribute to their family , and I be endlessly in awe of the bravery , commitment and determination that they show . as the right hon . Gentleman mention , many of these case have be go on for some time . I will start by provide context on the general situation . several member have make comment about trend line ; I will offer datum on the Foreign Office ' s response , as have be request . I will set out Labour ' s position , and then I will turn briefly to some of the case that have be raise . however , as be say by the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Bicester and Woodstock ( Calum Miller ) , many family do not wish to have their case name in this House , and many of they be not represent in the Public Gallery . that do not make they any less of a priority for I , the rest of the ministerial team , or the Foreign Office . I join the shadow Minister — the right hon . member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) — and many other right hon . and hon . member in pay tribute to consular team for their work . the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) say that many Foreign Office staff be the good and bright , and that be certainly true for consular team , who I be very happy to represent as the consular Minister , and to visit everywhere I go . the week before last , I be in Pakistan , where our staff deal with some of the most complex consular case , as the House will know . they work 24 / 7 to ensure that people have what be often their only contact with the outside world once they have be detain , as many member have say . I would not claim to be one of the good or bright , but I be what the right hon . member for New Forest East would probably call a specialist unit , give that during my time in the Foreign Office , I deal with many such case . indeed , I work with other nation , as many member have encourage the Government to do . it be of course desirable to look at other country ' system . my right hon . friend the Member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) mention the SPEHA system , with which I work extensively . I can assure she that I talk to my american counterpart , include the special envoy , who I will see this weekend . member seek consistency in our response to consular case . they will recognise that what govern our ability to provide consular assistance be the Vienna convention , which mandate that we can not interfere in foreign legal system ; we can only ensure that proper consular assistance be offer . many member have rightly highlight the difficulty in identify whether british national have have proper recourse to due process and their full right . the Foreign Office remain focused on that question . we be assist 1 , 400 british national overseas . some of those case be more straightforward ; some be considerably more complex . we provide assistance , both directly and through a partnership with Prisoners abroad — a highly value charity with which many member will be familiar . it work to ensure not only that british national overseas be visit by the Foreign Office , but that they have access to essential such as food and medication . prisoner abroad also support the family of those detain abroad , a vital service that we will continue to support . we have long - run partnership with non - governmental organisation such as Reprieve and the Death Penalty Project , which provide expertise in complex case . I know that right hon . and hon . member be familiar with the Foreign Office arrangement , so I will not dwell on they too much , but let I be clear about what a Labour Government will do differently and why . we will introduce a special envoy for complex consular case , in part because we have hear from family , include those in the Public Gallery , about their experience of seek Foreign Office support . we will introduce that envoy so that there be , as many member have request , a part of the Foreign Office with a particular focus on complex consular case . we will also introduce a new right to consular assistance . I hope to return to the House shortly to set out more detail on both provision . the right hon . member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) rightly highlight that we should be uneasy about the increase global trend of try to use british and other foreign national as diplomatic leverage . it be important to repeat that we will never accept british national be use as pawn or diplomatic leverage . we take a strong position on that , and will continue to do so . we will not haggle for british national , but will ensure that they have their proper right , in accordance with the Vienna convention , and will do everything we can to support their family . I turn briefly to some of the case that have be raise . I reiterate that I will not mention every case . there be many name that be burn into my mind , as member would expect , and case that we work on regularly that I will not mention now , but I will address those on which I have be particularly press for answer . I begin with the case of Mr Cornelius and Mr Ridley . the family be above I in the Gallery . we will continue to provide support to they , but I reassure the House that I have now raise with the ruler of Dubai the request for clemency , and outline the british Government ' s support for Mr Cornelius ' pardon application . the previous Foreign Secretary do so , as be allude to by the shadow Minister ; I think it be important to provide clarification on that . I recognise that there have be unwelcome news in this case ; I will not go into further detail about that in this place , but we will continue to work on the case . I meet Mr Cornelius ' s family recently , and I reassure the House that I have commit to continue to meet they for as long as the two case remain ongoing . Mr Lai ' s case , which be also raise , remain a priority for the British Government . we be closely monitor his trial , and I can reassure the House that diplomat from our consulate general will continue to attend his court proceeding . as this House be aware , the Prime Minister raise the matter of Mr Lai with President Xi at the G20 summit , and the Foreign Secretary have raise it with his equivalent . the Minister for the Indo - Pacific have also raise this case with both the Chinese and Hong Kong authority . we continue to call on the Hong Kong authority to end their politically motivated prosecution and immediately release Mr Lai . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Members for Wolverhampton West ( Warinder Juss ) , and for West Dunbartonshire ( Douglas McAllister ) , for raise the case of Mr Johal . we continue to press the Government of India for fast progress to resolve this matter . I recognise the diligent effort of his brother , who I understand be in the Gallery , and the deep and profound frustration about this case . it must be resolve , and that resolution must include an investigation into Mr Johal ' s allegation of torture . I will return to this House later today to talk far about Mr el - Fattah ' s case . that case remain at the front of my mind and that of the Foreign Secretary . he meet the family , who I understand be behind I in the Gallery , last week . the Prime Minister have raise the case with President Sisi ; the Foreign Secretary and I have both raise it with the egyptian Foreign Minister ; and my right hon . friend the Minister for Development raise it just this week , again with the egyptian Foreign Minister . Mr el - Fattah ' s case be tragic . I be very mindful of the hunger strike of his mother , who I have meet , and whose effort have be mention by many hon . member . we will continue to focus on Mr el - Fattah , and I look forward to return to the House this afternoon to discuss his case far . on Emily Damari , a hostage hold by Hamas and a british national , she and all the other UK national and people with UK link hold by Hamas be very much on our mind . we continue to press for their immediate release , for humanitarian access to they , and for the medical assistance that we be sure they will require . I meet their family this week , and they will remain a steadfast focus . I would also like to comment briefly on the case of Dr Ibadoghlu ; we have indeed raise this case with the authority , include recently at the end of October . as the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green suggest , these be not easy case . many of they have be go on for some time , and the appointment of an envoy be important , but I reassure this House that I be the Minister responsible for consular affair . it be not for official to own these case ; as the shadow Minister have make clear , that be for Ministers . that be very much the view that I and the Foreign Secretary take . I look forward to return to the House to discuss some of these case in more detail , and to tell member about the measure that we will take . I regret that in our few month in Government , we have not yet see positive progress on all these case , and I note that many member have refer to the negative trend in some of these area . I reassure the House that we will continue to focus on this issue above all . as be say by the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Bicester and Woodstock , the first duty of Government be to look after their people . there be no high responsibility for I than serve british national , whatever corner of the world they be in .