business before Questions New Writs order , that the Speaker do issue his Warrant to the Clerk of the Crown to make out a new Writ for the electing of a member to serve in the present Parliament for the County Constituency of Wellingborough in the room of Peter Bone , against whom , since his election for the say County Constituency , a recall petition have be successful . — ( Simon Hart . ) order , that the Speaker do issue his Warrant to the Clerk of the Crown to make out a new Writ for the electing of a member to serve in this present Parliament for the Borough Constituency of Kingswood in the room of Chris Skidmore , who since his election for the say Borough Constituency have be appoint to the Office of Steward and Bailiff of his Majesty ' s Three Chiltern Hundreds of Stoke , Desborough and Burnham , in the county of Buckingham . — ( Simon Hart . ) Oral Answers to Questions Culture , Media and Sport the Secretary of State be ask — Grassroots Music Support what assessment she have make of the potential merit of require venue to introduce a surcharge on large event ticket to support grassroots music venue . if she will take step to require arena , stadium and major festival to charge a ticket levy to help fund grassroots live music . I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) for support my maternity leave . the chance to raise a tiny child be fleeting and precious , and his superb stewardship of my portfolio grant I that gift . one of my big worry on stand for election and then become a Minister be that it might prove incompatible with start and now expand my family . I simply say to other woman who want to get involve in public life , " do not be afraid . there be a lot of talk of barrier , but service and motherhood be compatible privilege . " as my right hon . friend the Member for Norwich North ( Chloe Smith ) say so encouragingly to I , you can do it . grassroot live music venue be the talent pipeline of our music industry . we be support they with fund and rate relief . we have no plan for a government - mandate ticket levy , but we encourage industry discussion . I welcome the Minister back to her place . in Edinburgh , we benefit from a plethora of small venue that depend on the Edinburgh Festival to survive . we also have big event every year . at the moment all the excitement , even in my household , be about Taylor Swift come to the city in June , but we recognise that small venue — the Music Venue Trust say 10 % currently struggle to survive and depend on grant from it — do not get any benefit from big gig . will the Government consider a levy to support small venue , because without they we will never have the Elton Johns , the Queens and the Taylor Swifts who use they to learn their craft , develop and benefit our economy and culture . the hon . Lady be absolutely right that grassroots venue be the talent incubator of the music industry . she will be aware that the Chancellor give a substantial amount of money at last year ' s Budget — up to £ 7 million for a new hub for the Edinburgh Fringe because of that talent pipeline — for the Edinburgh Fringe and the Edinburgh Festival . we be do what we can with various different pot of money , but we also think there be room for the industry to find a solution on ticket levy . we think it be probably good for the industry to do that , rather than mandate it as a Government . I welcome my hon . friend back to her place . in 2023 , across the country , not just in Edinburgh , live music boom , with some 22 million people attend gig , yet 76 small venue close — more than one a week . I draw the Minister ' s attention to an analogy with another hugely successful leisure industry , football , where a small amount of the enormous rich gain by the Premier League be allow to trickle down to the grassroot so that the future of the sport be preserve . just as with football , we have hugely profitable large arena where the superstar of today perform and create huge revenue . a levy on the ticket from those sort of show — [ interruption . ] I be sorry , Mr Speaker ; I be very passionate about this — would help small venue to produce the superstar of tomorrow , so will the Minister take a positive attitude towards a levy ? my right hon . friend have make his point well , if not briefly . we agree about the importance of grassroots music , which be why we have give another £ 5 million to the support grassroots music fund , but we be also in close touch with the Music Venue Trust , which have a great initiative call " own our Venues " . Arts Council England be help with the purchase of some of the freehold of these venue . we support that as well , but we think there be more scope for the industry to lead a solution , and we be back talk between different part of the industry . let we hear from the industry . I call Pete Wishart . the music industry be just about the most unequal sector in the whole of society . those at the bottom — the vast majority — earn an absolute pittance , while those at the very top have unimaginable earning . surely we should be do everything possible to try to change that . it be the sensible option : they do it in France , and the Scottish National party Government be consider do it in Scotland . will the Minister support that effort and initiative in Scotland , and if it show that it can help redistribute some of this money , will she follow that example ? I thank the hon . gentleman for tell we what the Scottish National party be do . I have understand that it be cut a substantial amount from the art budget . we have be support , for instance , the Edinburgh grassroot hub . I think there be a great deal of appetite in this place for a solution ; I also think that the good option be for those in the industry to get together , and we be back discussion of that kind . indeed , before I go on leave I talk to Mark Davyd of the Music Venue Trust about the issue . I , too , warmly welcome the Minister back to her place . she mention the £ 5 million for the support grassroots music fund , and that be greatly welcome , but let we be clear : festival , rehearsal space and independent promoter be also eligible for the fund . that be a lot of mouth to feed . they be all important part of the ecosystem , and they all need fund . in real term , this be a tiny amount of money for grassroots music venue . be my hon . friend push the Treasury to expand that funding to ensure that it can go far ? I thank the hon . Lady for draw on her expertise in this regard , and for the work that the Select Committee be do . I be go to provide that dreadful answer : ahead of the Budget , we will be discuss all these matter with the Treasury . Creative Industries : Tax Relief whether her Department have make an assessment of the potential impact of tax relief on the growth of the creative industry . let I begin by welcome the Minister back to her place . since 2012 , the Conservative Government have introduce tax relief for the creative industry year on year . that be one of the reason why the creative industry be grow at twice the rate of the rest of the economy , and why they be world lead . the Labour party oppose every single one of those tax relief , and despite its warm word it offer no substantive action . as my right hon . and learn Friend say , since we come to office we have introduce a number of tax relief that have support child ' s television , video game , production , gallery , orchestra , theatre and museum . it be for the Chancellor to decide on tax policy , but can my right hon . and learn Friend tell we what more she can do to make this go far , to ensure that we remain one of the world ' s lead production venue ? we have indeed introduce many tax relief , and since we come to office I have instigate and back the introduction of tax relief and other support for the sector . independent film making have be support with more than £ 60 million of Government and national lottery funding , and I have recently speak to representative of the independent sector to establish how we can provide further support . however , as my hon . friend have point out , matter of tax be ultimately matter for the Chancellor . I have a suggestion for the Minister . when I meet several film , television and advertising company in my constituency recently , they point out that Malta and Mauritius have a 40 % rebate which also cover commercial , and that Ireland will be follow suit with a 40 % rebate on reality tv and game show . these be the bread - and - butter product of the industry , and they have a huge impact on local area where filming take place . the UK be fall behind in this respect . what discussion be the Secretary of State have with the Treasury and other colleague about the matter ? I assure the hon . Lady that I have regular discussion with the Treasury and the industry about how we can continue to support this vital sector . we be not fall behind . we be world lead , and we need to maintain that competitive edge . our screen sector tax relief be estimate to have deliver over 200 , 000 new job and more than £ 13 billion in economic output . play field : community Access what step she be take to help increase community access to play field . the Government be commit to ensure that every community have the facility it need to make sport and physical activity accessible to all , with over £ 320 million be invest by 2025 to develop thousand of state - of - the - art community football pitch and multi - use sport facility across the UK . Udney Park playing field in Teddington , in my constituency , have go to rack and ruin over the past decade as successive developer have buy the site and , quite rightly , fail to build on it . the Udney Park Community Fields Foundation , lead by Jonathan Dunn , have campaign tirelessly to bring those field into community use , because we desperately need more sport field in my constituency . now the site be back on the market , will the Minister join I , local sport group and the local authority in back the community ' s bid for the site ? will he also put in a friendly word with relevant Ministers on the bid to the community ownership fund ? I commend the hon . Lady for her commitment to improve sport facility in her local area , and I commend all the volunteer , like Jonathan Dunn , who do a tremendous amount of work . frankly , without they we would not have so many people be physically active . the Football Foundation and Sport England be always ready to discuss potential investment , and I would be happy to provide the hon . Lady with those contact . of course , I will raise this issue with my colleague in the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities . the community sport area on Tithe Farm Road in Houghton Regis be about to get an amazing new all - weather facility fund by developer money , town council money , Central Bedfordshire Council money and Government money . will the Minister come to open the facility ? it be much need and should be celebrate . how could I possibly resist such an invitation ? it be always a great honour to open facility in this role , and I be delighted that we be so busy that we be open thousand of they . local Journalism what step her Department be take to support local journalism . we recognise that local medium face serious challenge to their sustainability . our digital market legislation will help to rebalance the relationship between publisher and platform , and the Government have be explore the role of the BBC in local news through the mid - term charter review . we continue to consider all possible option in the interest of promote and sustain local newspaper , because we think they be vital pillar of the community and of a thriving democracy . low pay and job insecurity be rife in local journalism . there have recently be big redundancy at my local paper , the Evening Chronicle , which have lose a third of its news reporter and half its sport reporter over a two - year period , mean that my constituent get less local news , less coverage of emergency incident and less coverage of their beloved sport team . what further step will the Minister take to address the issue of retain career in local journalism ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise these issue . I know that sustain a good , financially beneficial career be a concern for many people work in journalism . before I go on leave , I meet Reach and other local newspaper group to talk about some of the challenge they face . the Government be do what we can through our ad spend , and we have look at various thing over the year , include zero rating of vat , rate relief and so on , to try to help the sustainability of the local newspaper model . ultimately , sustainability be at the heart of the challenge of give local journalist place to have good career . we be encourage the BBC ' s local democracy report service , which give journalist opportunity beyond local newspaper . I call the shadow Minister . I welcome the Minister back to her place . the Government be one of the big advertiser in the UK yet , when it come to place advert and campaign , local paper such as the Barnsley Chronicle can be overlook in favour of buy ad space online . many people in this country do not have digital access or still rely on print medium as their primary source of news and information , and our local paper be struggle . what step be the Minister take to ensure that the Government ' s policy on place advert support the interest of both our press and the public ? I thank the hon . Lady for highlight this issue , which the Cabinet Office lead on . the dcms have be in talk with the Cabinet Office about that spend . as I say , I have speak to group such as Reach about this previously . I be in the Cabinet Office during the pandemic , when some large advert be use and some of the issue face be about regularity ; the Government spend a large amount of money with local newspaper because of that audience reach , because of old readership and so on . so the Government do a lot in this area , but I appreciate that there be always more we can look to do and I understand the point she be make about online advertising . sport Facilities : Devon and Cornwall what recent discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on develop new sport facility in Devon and Cornwall . as I mention a moment ago , the Government be invest in facility up and down the country . I be pleased to say that the multi - sport grassroot facility programme have invest , through the Football Foundation , more than £ 766 , 000 since 2022 across Devon and Cornwall , support 79 project so far with equipment . group such as the Torquay athletic club do great work in coach and encourage young people across Torbay to participate in sport , yet there be no synthetic 400 - metre track and field athletic facility suitable for high - level training in our bay . what opportunity do the Minister see for get such a facility in Torbay to address that need ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this important issue . it be vital that community have access to the right facility , in order to help we meet our target of have more than 3 million more people be active by 2030 . Sport England have provide more than £ 20 million to support grassroots project in the region . I would be happy to share a full list of the available fund that be open for he to have a look at . let I also add my thank to his constituent for the work they be do in get people more active . Loneliness what step her Department be take to tackle loneliness . since the tackle loneliness strategy launch in 2018 , the Government and their partner have invest more than £ 80 million in tackle loneliness . the 2023 annual report include 60 new cross - government commitment , and update on progress on thing include in that report be due to be publish in March . severe cut have leave a £ 600 million gap in adult social care funding . More than 1 million lonely and isolate elderly people now rely on charity such as Re - engage , which I volunteer with , to plug that gap . I know that the Minister do care about this , but surely he must recognise that those cut and their lead to that rise in desperate loneliness be because of this government . first , let I pay tribute to the hon . Lady for the work she do with those charity . the partnership between Government and charity have make the UK one of the world ' s lead country on tackle loneliness . that be why in the Budget in 2023 we announce £ 100 million of support for charity and community organisation , recognise the challenge they face and pay tribute to they for the work they be do in tackle this important issue . I call the shadow Minister . when the Government release their national strategy in 2018 , we have a far more limited understanding of loneliness , its consequence and the effectiveness of intervention than we do now . however , despite six year of hard work and good initiative , the problem have get bad ; the level of loneliness have rise by half a million since 2020 . as my hon . friend the Member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) say , the pandemic and now the cost of living crisis have create new pressure , and with charity and local authority face high demand and rise cost , it be increasingly difficult for they to respond . give all those challenge , what have the Minister do to prepare for a refreshed national strategy to tackle loneliness ? this be a complex area and a lot of the research do since the strategy be launch in 2018 have help we to understand the issue in a lot more detail . chronic loneliness have remain at about the same level , but there be still more work to be do . that be why we be now take very target approach to specific demographic within our society . I be also convene a cross - government meeting of Ministers from across Departments to see what more we can do to make sure we be meet our strategy ambition . protect Heritage Assets what step her Department be take to support local community and special interest group in protect heritage asset . DCMS welcome application through Historic England for local heritage asset to be consider for designation . we be also commit to support community to care for their local heritage asset , include through Historic England ' s repair grant for heritage at risk and the National Lottery Heritage Fund ' s grant for heritage . with both RAF Northolt and the Battle of Britain Bunker in the heart of my constituency , the people of Uxbridge and South Ruislip share incredibly deep tie with the second world war , especially in the context of the Royal Air Force . as the 84th anniversary of the battle of Britain approach , would my hon . friend meet I and other local group dedicate to preserve the important fabric of both of these valuable heritage site , to ensure all be do for they to continue to stand as testament to the bravery of the few who preserve our freedom ? my constituency share deep tie with my hon . friend ' s , as RAF Hornchurch be in my constituency . some RAF fighter base there join in the battle of Britain , protect London and our nation at a time of deep terror . we have a fantastic local museum at RAF Hornchurch , if I may just give it a plug , that be run by volunteer and be an absolute treasure trove ; I recommend it . I understand that my hon . friend have meet with the parliamentary under - Secretary of State , Lord Parkinson of Whitley Bay , who be responsible for art and heritage , but I understand that we will also have an opportunity to debate the subject in great detail next week , and I look forward to that . Hadrian ' s Wall run through the heart of Newcastle ' s west end , but it be little celebrated or signpost , and the Hadrian ' s Wall national trail do not actually follow the wall ' s path through my constituency . what help can the Minister offer to local community keen to celebrate this history , which be literally in their backyard ? I be not aware of this outrageous oversight on path and signage , so I will raise it with Lord Parkinson at the next opportunity . I call the Father of the House . will the Minister help the heritage of Victoria Tower Gardens and the voluntary organisation London Parks & Gardens Trust and the Thorney Island Society by get the UK Holocaust Memorial Foundation to unredact the minute of December 2018 , so that I can quote they when I appear at the hybrid Bill Committee on Wednesday ? I confess I be not sure about the issue my hon . friend refer to , so I will do some investigation and we will see what the Department can do to facilitate his request . I thank the Minister for her positive answer ; it be good to see she back in her place . we have some incredible heritage in Strangford , which go back long before Ards and North Down Borough Council be bring together . the council have some idea for promote first and second world war heritage at the Somme Museum at Conlig . have any discussion take place with Ards and North Down Borough Council to ensure that our heritage be retain for everyone , culturally , historically and visually ? I have just be inform that my ministerial colleague have a very positive visit to the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency — I be sure he always offer a good time in Northern Ireland . I will ask if there have be any discussion with his local authority on that basis . UK Musicians : European Tours what step she be take to support UK musician seek to tour in Europe . I be still feel slightly embarrassed by my answer to the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) ! we have engage with EU member state to clarify guidance and , where possible , improve arrangement when for EU touring . the vast majority of EU member state — 23 of the 27 — offer visa and permit - free route to tour . we be always look at what more we can do , include through the music export growth scheme , which be be triple to £ 3 . 2 million over the next two year . Glasgow North be home to many talented musician , some of whom play in Scotland ' s world - class orchestra , but the Association of British Orchestras have warn that the removal of tax credit for performance in the european economic area be a direct result of Brexit and could make touring in Europe unviable for orchestra . what be the Minister ' s message to my constituent , whose ability to tour in Europe be be sacrifice on the altar of Brexit fundamentalism ? unlike the SNP , we actually listen to what people say in referenda , so I be afraid we will not be rejoin the EU and therefore we can not have special tax privilege on that basis . DCMS be aware of the concern of tour orchestra . we be facilitate discussion with his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs so the orchestra know precisely where they stand on some of the issue they have raise . Film and Television Industry what step her Department be take to support the growth of the film and television industry . we have see significant growth in the film and tv industry . the support that we have take include reform to audiovisual tax relief , uplift for animation and child ' s tv , and £ 28 million of investment in the UK global screen fund . as I have say , the Labour party vote against all our tax relief and , as far as I be aware , have offer no funding to those industry . I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for her answer . she will know that there be now more studio space for feature film production in the home county than there be in Hollywood . however , there be a vulnerability . we find that out at the time of the american writer and actor ' strike , when a number of my friend , and many other people who be not my friend , be make redundant temporarily because film production halt . how can we make the british film industry more independent of the american production machine ? I know that my hon . friend be himself a veteran of the silver screen , appear in the brilliant british " House of Cards " . our film industry be world lead . he be right that the strike cause disruption . we work very closely with our partner in other jurisdiction . one example be the international hit film " Barbie " , which be film in the UK , support 750 job , add £ 80 million to our economy and earn more than £ 1 . 1 billion at the global box office . we need to ensure that the film industry could continue to thrive after the strike , which be why we be continue to support the industry with tax incentive , fund pot and , importantly , the development of a skill pipeline to ensure success long into the future . BBC Current Affairs Coverage : impartiality whether she have have recent discussion with the BBC Board on the impartiality of the BBC ' s current affair coverage . the BBC have a duty to deliver its impartial and accurate news and current affair coverage under its royal charter . it be editorially independent , which mean that editorial policy be a matter for the BBC , but both the Secretary of State and I regularly meet the BBC ' s leadership team . we have discuss the important issue of impartiality on multiple occasion . it be also a key focus of the Government ' s mid - term review of the BBC ' s governance and regulation . as a former BBC journalist myself , I completely believe in its editorial independence from the Government , but , just as strongly , I consider it essential that the BBC , across all its programming and from all presenter , should be absolutely and unequivocally impartial . give the concern that we have hear about the current coverage of Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories , the reporting of the resignation of the president of Harvard and example of where Ofcom have find significant editorial failing , do my hon . friend agree that the BBC need to work consistently , constantly and visibly to enforce that requirement on impartiality ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . he be absolutely right : trust be the BBC ' s currency . that be especially important in relation to its international coverage , particularly during conflict , so it must use its word with care . with regard to the event in Israel and Gaza , the Government have be clear that the BBC should reflect on its coverage and learn lesson for the future , but , of course , we again emphasise impartiality and the high editorial standard . that be a strategic priority of the BBC ' s leadership , and we be talk to they about this in relation to the mid - term review and licensing renewal . I call the SNP spokesperson . as an ex - BBC reporter , I be in awe of my former colleague ' bravery and impartiality when they cover world affair . we have all follow with horror the israeli bombardment of Gaza . reporter without Borders say that it appear that Israel be now directly target journalist . the Al - Jazeera bureau chief have have three child kill , include his journalist son — what unimaginable pain . another palestinian journalist , Ayat Khaddoura , say : " when will this war end ? who will tell the world what we go through and what we see ? " I bring her question to the House as she be no long alive to do so . can the Minister share with journalist across the world how the Government ' s refusal to call for a ceasefire be advance the cause of journalistic freedom or peace in the region , and can she tell we who the Government ' s position have persuade apart from those on the Labour Front Bench who remain limpet close to the Tory position on Gaza , as on so many other issue ? that question be a long way from the impartiality of the BBC . we must ensure that we stick to the subject of the question . I suggest to the hon . gentleman that topical would have be a much well place for his question . Minister , can you pick out the part that you need to ? I simply wish to pay tribute to every journalist who put their life on the line to bring truth to the public ' s attention . they play an incredibly important role . we be proud of what the BBC journalist do in particular . they have also do some awesome thing in Ukraine . as a Government , we just want to say that we support their work and pay tribute to they . access to sport : woman and girl what progress she have make on increase woman and girl ' access to sport . woman and girl should have exactly the same access to sport as boy and man . that be why we support the recommendation in Karen Carney ' s excellent report . it be why we be invest £ 600 million to boost equal access to sport , and why we recently announce £ 30 million for the Lionesses Futures Fund to deliver 30 pitch across the country with priority access for woman and girl , with further opportunity for 8 , 000 woman and girl . we have have fantastic success with woman ' s football , particularly the Lionesses , include Harrogate ' s Rachel Daly , who have be a great inspiration locally , but what step be my right hon . and learn Friend take to ensure that sport with a small following can sustain a competitive grassroots environment for girl ? I recognise Rachel ' s success as the top scorer in the woman ' s super league last year . we support sport at every level . Sport England ' s this Girl can campaign , fund by the Government , inspire million of woman and girl to get involve in all sport . the School Games programme , also fund by the Government , encourage child to take up sport and get active . I call the shadow Secretary of State . unfortunately , in recent week there have be a spate of disgusting sexist , misogynistic abuse direct towards sportswomen just for be at the top of their game . I know that the Under - Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , the right hon . member for Pudsey ( Stuart Andrew ) , have be on the receiving end just for stand up to it , which I commend he for . I agree with he that vile , misogynistic comment be dangerous . the reality be that they be put woman and girl off sport . do the Secretary of State agree that every sporting organisation should have a strategy to eliminate all form of sexual harassment and abuse ? I agree with the hon . member : we should not have misogynistic , bully behaviour in sport , and all govern body should be look at what their sport be do . we set out in our sport strategy how we should have fair competition and integrity in sport . the Secretary of State mention the Carney review , but I be afraid that the Government seem to be fail woman ' s football on that , with a complete lack of detail about how the implementation group to put into practice the Carney review recommendation will work . without senior leadership , that group will not have the tooth that it need , and all the hard work will be put at risk . fan , player and club deserve urgent action and leadership from the top . if the Secretary of State do not reform the woman ' s game and give it the same prominence as the man ' s , I will . will she commit to chair the implementation group , and report back to Parliament so that mps can hold she to account ? I completely dispute what the hon . Member say about our support for woman in sport , and woman in football . I have have the pleasure of meet Karen Carney on a number of occasion . her report be excellent . we endorse all its recommendation , many of which be for the fa , which I have also speak to on this subject . I will ensure that the recommendation be fulfil . the implementation board will have all the govern body on it . its first meeting be in March . I will keep a very close eye on the board , and will work very closely with my right hon . friend the Under - Secretary on that and every other issue . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . as 2023 draw to a close , official statistic highlight that under this Government the creative industry continue to thrive . they now employ almost 2 . 5 million worker , a growth of 4 . 4 % , so we be well on our way to meet our objective to grow the creative industry by £ 50 billion and increase employment by 1 million by 2030 . local commercial radio , whether in Lancashire or Suffolk , can fill the gap leave by the reduction in BBC local radio coverage , but in the Lowestoft and Waveney area it be constrain in do so , as the local digital audio broadcasting network have not be extend to cover the area . please can my right hon . and learn Friend arrange for that important infrastructure , which be available throughout most of the UK , to be extend to north - east Suffolk as soon as possible ? I completely agree with my hon . friend on the importance of local radio to listener across the UK , and I know that he be an effective campaigner for his local area . the BBC and commercial radio be responsible for the operation of their respective radio network , include the DAB radio network , but I have ask my official to engage with local DAB multiplex operator and broadcaster to look at whether there be a desire to increase local DAB coverage far . do the Secretary of State agree that , in the medium world , content be king , and that that be why we must support our world - lead creative talent ? will she take step to require artificial intelligence developer to provide songwriter and composer with detailed information as to how their work be be use , include when authorisation have be grant for use of those work as training datum ? the right hon . member be absolutely right about the importance of protect the original work of the creative industry . I have hold a number of roundtable to ensure that we protect that originality . the Intellectual Property Office be work on that very issue , and I have be liaise with it and with the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology . the Secretary of State will be aware that the Premier League and the English Football League have hold meeting , and yet have fail to come up with a solution for a fairer redistribution of funding . give their inability to come to an agreement , will she get the two side together round the table — she be probably already do it — to encourage they to come up with a solution ? fail that , if legislation be necessary , will she consider it , because we do not want to see any club go under ? it be absolutely right that a deal should be do . the Under - Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , my right hon . friend the Member for Pudsey ( Stuart Andrew ) , and I have be encourage all the authority to come to an arrangement . we have be clear that if no arrangement be reach , there will obviously be a backstop in the legislation for the football regulator that we will bring forward to the House shortly . as the Secretary of State will be aware , charity be face an extremely challenging fundraising environment and , at the same time , be try to respond to increase demand due to the cost of living crisis . will she explain why the Government continue to impose sale restriction on charity lottery fundraising , the removal of which would not cost the Treasury a single penny , but would ensure much - need additional fund for charitable cause ? that would hugely benefit community in my constituency and across the whole UK . as probably one of the few member of this House who have actually set up a charity lottery , I understand the importance of they . it be right to say that we do a significant review of they not so long ago . I know the hon . member be probably refer to one particular lottery , and I have write to that lottery with suggestion , have consult with the Gambling Commission , of way it may be able to expand within the current remit . but , as a Department , we be extremely busy at the moment deal with the gambling White Paper — that have to take priority . once we have do that , we will consider what further work may need to be do on society lottery . with both Wealdstone and Uxbridge football club embed in my constituency , grassroots football be incredibly important to the people of Uxbridge and South Ruislip . club like those offer more than just football ; they act as vital community hub and support a significant increase in girl ' football through to special educational provision and much more . for the benefit of the club and fan across my constituency , will the Minister give the House an update on the progress be make to protect grassroots football , include how television revenue will be distribute , to ensure that those important community asset do not just survive but flourish ? my hon . friend be absolutely right about the importance of football club like Wealdstone and Uxbridge . they be incredibly important in provide opportunity for people to become physically active , but be also integral part of our community . that be why , as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State just mention , we have be urge the football authority to come up with a deal , so that that money can flow down and we can ensure that our great football sport that we have in this country continue to flourish . this year , in Scotland , we will have the chance to see the scottish football team on terrestrial television . that be a rare opportunity — not just because we have qualify , but because scottish football , like other sport , be become increasingly difficult to view , because it be increasingly behind a paywall . that be damage its attraction to young people who want to see it . will the Minister tell we what discussion be take place to try to alleviate that problem ? I be glad that people in Scotland will be able to watch their national team . I believe that our current list work well . it be important that we strike the right balance , because we have to ensure that the sport right holder use the income they get to benefit the whole of that sporting environment . that be something we look at constantly , but I think that at the moment we have the right balance . give Ofcom ' s comment that it be consider whether its proposal for regulation of local radio be still appropriate in the light of the BBC ' s change to local radio provision , do the Minister agree that the BBC ' s mid - term review be a good opportunity to look at how the BBC deliver for old audience , particularly in its local radio provision ? the mid - term review be a very important point where we can look far , and indeed have look far , at a number of issue , include competition , complaint and impartiality . we will be publish the result of the mid - term review very shortly . the Minister will know that Warwick and Leamington — Leamington be also know as Silicon Spa — enjoy the great concentration of game company in the world . I appreciate what be say in the autumn statement , but there be a skill shortage . can the Minister update we on what be be do to address that ? the gaming industry in this country be world lead , and I have have the pleasure of visit a number of gaming company to see how they be thrive . we have a creative industry skill package , which we commit to in the creative industry sector vision , to ensure a pipeline of talent all the way from primary school right up until someone ' s second or third job , and there be measure at every single one of those step . Wallington FC be an amazing local football club in Roundshaw , in Carshalton and Wallington , but it be have trouble maintain its lease with the new owner and its very old sport pavilion need an overhaul . can the Minister set out what support be available from the Department or other organisation to help with that ? the volunteer that my hon . friend mention be absolutely the lifeblood of community sport and it be vital that they have those facility , as I mention early . again , we be invest more than £ 320 million , and any team can have discussion with the local authority and the Football Foundation . I be happy to meet he privately to discuss that and perhaps give he some pointer . performer in the UK be have their image , voice or likeness reproduce by other use AI technology , without their consent . the copyright , Designs and Patents Act 1988 , which regulate performer ' intellectual property , do not account for AI . when will this Government act to protect the right of artist , performer and other creative in the UK , or be they content to see this continue exploitation and violation of people ' s intellectual property right ? the hon . Member will know that in the UK we have world - lead protection for copyright and intellectual property . we want to make sure that , as we move into a new technological age with generative AI , we continue to protect creative work . I assure she that we be work closely with the industry and the Intellectual Property Office to ensure that we get the good protection we can , and I know that an update on the IPO ' s work will be publish shortly . one of the key recommendation of the Carney review into woman ' s football be the need for an improvement in mental health provision in elite woman ' s sport . I think the Government have accept most of the recommendation of the Carney review , so can the Secretary of State give we an update on how she think mental health provision need to be improve in woman ' s elite sport ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight that important piece of work in Karen Carney ' s review . I know that football authority such as the fa , for example , be start work in this area , but that be precisely why we will be introduce the implementation group , because we want to ensure that pressure be put on to do the work that be need , and to do it quickly . labour have a programme for a new generation of youth hub , because we know that our young people be struggle with mental health challenge , school , themselves and other , and some be be pick off by criminal gang . in contrast with our programme , the YMCA have identify a 70 % cut in funding since 2010 and a loss of 4 , 500 frontline youth worker . when will the Government invest in our young people and in a comprehensive youth service ? I be grateful for the hon . Lady ' s question , because this be something I feel very passionately about . I be very proud that we be invest £ 500 million in our national youth guarantee , and that we already have in place a programme to build youth club — we have already build 87 throughout the country , spend £ 300 million . we want constructive thing for people to do , which be why we be spend £ 300 million on our sport pitch . I have strengthen the statutory guidance in relation to what local authority be require to do , and we be work across department to ensure that our young people have something to do , somewhere to go and someone to talk to . Church Commissioners the hon . member for South West Bedfordshire , represent the Church Commissioners , be ask — Choral Music : cathedral whether the Commissioners be take step to support choral music in cathedral . the Church Commissioners provide £ 1 million to support music in cathedral during the pandemic . that sum be match fund by the Cathedral Music Trust . the commissioner be extremely grateful to the trust for do what it do to help ensure that worship in our cathedral remain of the high calibre . my hon . friend will know that cathedral school , such as Lichfield Cathedral School , play an important part in provide young chorister for cathedral , but they be very concerned that if they have to charge 20 % on their fee , and possibly lose their charitable status , they may no long be viable and will go bust . what assessment have the commissioner make of the effect of such a change ? I can tell my hon . friend that there be a concern that cathedral school may not be able to afford to pay business rate . if the payment of business rate and the addition of vat on fee cause choir school to close , that would be an issue for a number of cathedral . rough Sleeping what step the Church be take to support work by local authority and the Government on reduce rough sleeping . many parish church provide shelter and support for rough sleeper . the Church of England be work to provide long - term secure housing for those who need it , and pilot project to build housing on Church land to enable that to happen . church building and congregation can work well with local council to reduce rough sleeping by provide not only a bed and a meal , but the opportunity for last spiritual and emotional support through membership of the Church family . what further support can the Church of England offer parish in Torbay that be undertake such work ? I warmly congratulate all the church in Torbay on the provision of the night shelter , and I single out in particular Mark Gridley and Gary Mitchell , who I know have be instrumental in lead that work — I be sure that the whole House be grateful for what they be do . it be also typical of my hon . friend that , as I understand it , he provide a Sunday evening surgery at the shelter . I be sure that church across England could learn from that excellent initiative . if any church would welcome conversation with the Church of England about housing on Church land , I ask they to get in touch with I directly and I will enable that to happen . in my constituency , unfortunately , at this time of year we be witness a number of people who be homeless — we have not see that for some time . the story of Christmas tell of Mary ' s journey before the birth of baby Jesus , when they too be homeless . I be very keen to hear from the Church Commissioners what can be do not just here on the mainland , which I understand be the responsibility of the Church of England , but in Northern Ireland , where the Church of Ireland and other church also wish to participate . I be very grateful to the hon . gentleman for his question . in the first instance , I suggest that he and church in Northern Ireland might want to look at the joint archbishop ' commission on housing , which come out last year . the commission be widely praise for its work , and we be take that work forward in the Church of England , but I be sure that church in Northern Ireland could learn from it as well . Electoral Commission Committee the hon . member for Lancaster and Fleetwood , represent the Speaker ' s Committee on the Electoral Commission , be ask — Election Finance from Overseas : transparency whether the committee have have recent discussion with the Electoral Commission on the adequacy of the transparency of election finance from overseas . the committee have not have any recent discussion with the commission on the matter raise . the commission publish information about donation to ensure transparency , and have power to sanction political party that accept impermissible foreign donation . however , it have also highlight that the political finance system be vulnerable to unlawful influence from donation both overseas and in the UK . it have recommend that party should be require to know where donation come from , and to have policy in place to manage the risk of receive money from unlawful source . last year , the parliamentary National Security Strategy Committee reveal that the russian state attempt to interfere with the 2019 general election . this Government have make it easy for overseas donor , include those live in Russia , to donate to UK political party . do the Electoral Commission share my party ' s concern that this Government be open up UK democracy to even great influence by hostile nation ? it would be a matter for the security service , rather than the Electoral Commission , to make a full assessment of whether unlawful foreign money have be use to campaign at UK general election — in 2019 , for example , as the hon . Member have point out . however , political party must report when they be give an unlawful donation and return it to the donor . in addition , the commission carry out permissibility check on a sample of donation , and have the power to sanction political party that accept impermissible foreign donation . the commission will continue to recommend change to ensure that voter can have great confidence in the political finance system . Church Commissioners the hon . member for South West Bedfordshire , represent the Church Commissioners , be ask — Multimedia Platforms whether the commissioner be take step to improve the use of multimedia platform to communicate the Church ' s mission and ministry . I be very pleased to be able to tell the hon . Lady that the Church of England have transform its use of digital and social medium in recent year , include through Instagram and TikTok , and our digital team have win over 30 prestigious award for its work . that have lead to hugely increase online engagement — as the hon . Lady and I be learn about early this morning — not least among those who have difficulty attend church . in a multimedia age , there be 2 million people in the UK who be housebound , and globally many Christians across the persecuted church be unable to gather with other . with good christian online content such as service and podcast , and popular series such as " the Chosen " through to the Alpha course , how be the church equip people to navigate that content safely and easily , in order to extend its mission with the equipment and skill need to access it ? I commend the hon . Lady for such an important question , which take in the housebound in England and people persecute across the world who can not attend church safely ; she be absolutely right to raise those issue . for those who be not online at all , the Church of England offer DailyHope , which be a free telephone line provide 24 / 7 worship , prayer and talk . of course , our digital content can be follow not just around England but across the world , to help make Jesus know . Electoral Commission Committee the hon . member for Lancaster and Fleetwood , represent the Speaker ' s Committee on the Electoral Commission , be ask — General Election : Online Misinformation what recent discussion the committee have have with the Electoral Commission on tackle online misinformation ahead of the next general election . the committee have not have any recent discussion with the Electoral Commission on the matter raise . the commission ' s regulatory remit be focus on ensure that political finance be transparent and that campaign material include an imprint show voter who have produce the material . the commission do not have a role in regulate the content of election material , but it do encourage all campaigner to undertake their role responsibly and transparently . it have call for change in the law to improve transparency and safeguard the UK ' s electoral system . I thank the hon . Lady for her answer . the imprint be go to be important , but we have already see an attack on our system through cyber - attack at the last general election . at this general election , we face the increase , insidious threat to our democracy from artificial intelligence and fake news circulate false audio from politician during conference season , so be there anything else that the commission be consider , or that it could do , to attack that sort of insidious approach ? the commission share the hon . Lady ' s concern about some of the threat that new technology , deepfake and AI - generate content could pose , ultimately take away voter confidence in the electoral system . while the commission do not have a role in the regulation of the content of campaign material , it be work with other organisation to try to support responsible and transparent campaigning . if the hon . Lady would be interested , I would be very happy to arrange an opportunity for she to meet with the Electoral Commission , perhaps to discuss this matter far . House of Commons Commission the hon . member for Broxbourne , represent the House of Commons Commission , be ask — australian Wine if the Commission will take step to increase purchase of australian wine for sale in the House of Commons . the wine sell in the House of Commons be review annually , with the next review due in the spring of 2024 . the right hon . Gentleman ' s question specifically relate to australian wine ; I understand that a Chardonnay and a Shiraz be available , compare with three english wine , so australian wine be represent on the wine list in the Palace of Westminster . as part of a dispute over covid , China impose particularly punish tariff on australian wine , damage that industry . may I urge the House of Commons Commission to stand with our australian friend and ally , and prioritise buy australian wine and encourage its use in our venue to make it clear that bullying do not pay ? of course , if colleague here wish to prioritise the purchase of australian wine from the wine list , I encourage they to do so , but I also remind they that we have very good english wine on the wine list as well . more generally , I be sure the nation have hear the right hon . Gentleman ' s call to arm , so when we be out in the supermarket stock our own shelf , perhaps we should all be mindful of buy two or three bottle of australian wine as well — seriously — to show solidarity with our australian friend and their grower . Church Commissioners the hon . member for South West Bedfordshire , represent the Church Commissioners , be ask — Church Buildings : security whether the Commissioners have issue recent guidance to church parish on secure their building against theft . back from wine to God , Mr Speaker . sadly , vandalism and theft be persistent issue for parish church , and I be sorry to learn about theft at church in Stanmore , Hendon , Edgware and Bushey in my hon . friend ' s constituency . I can tell he that advice from the diocese have be circulate to all parish in the area . of course , the good way to deter thief be to have a high footfall in and around church , keep the building open to welcome people . I also know that the police will be provide crime prevention advice to the church concern . I thank my hon . friend for his answer . he be right that St John ' s church in Stanmore be the subject of a burglary just before Christmas , Christ Church in Hendon be the subject of another burglary , and St Andrew ' s church in Kingsbury be rob during the mass itself . will my hon . friend use his power to encourage the police to take extra action , particularly around christian festival when it seem that there be more action by burglar and a pattern of behaviour ? I think the whole House be very sorry to learn what have happen to my hon . friend ' s local church . a theft during the mass be really quite extraordinary . I will make sure that the Church of England nationally get in touch with the Metropolitan police to pass on his concern about that case . on general security advice , alarm sensor and attach safe securely to the building will help , as will make sure that there be an accurate record , and picture of valuable can help to secure their return . we certainly do not want a repeat of what my hon . friend have experience . Cuba : support for Christians what step the Church be take to support Christians in Cuba . I commend the Prime Minister ' s special envoy for freedom of religion or belief for yet again bring this issue before the House . it be extremely concern that the cuban Government continue to control religious activity so tightly by use surveillance , harassment , forced exile , fine and ill - treatment of prisoner . the Church of England work multilaterally through the United Nations , the World Council of Churches and other body to advocate vigorously for freedom of religion or belief for everyone in Cuba . I thank my hon . friend for that reply . the open Doors 2024 world watchlist will be launch in the Palace of Westminster on 17 January , and I urge all colleague to attend . I anticipate that once again it will , sadly , indicate a deteriorate picture of freedom for Christians around the world as autocratic regime seek to suppress dissent voice . on Cuba , I thank the Church Commissioner for share my concern about report on the worsen situation , particularly for religious leader there . as he mention , many be subject to harassment , fine , forced exile , detention and ill - treatment in prison . will he join I in call for the release of religious prisoner of conscience Pastor Lorenzo Rosales Fajardo ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that the case of Pastor Lorenzo be all too indicative of a worsen climate of freedom of religion or belief in Cuba . the Church of England call on the cuban Government to release Pastor Lorenzo immediately , along with all those other detain in relation to the 11 July protest . the international community must continue to follow this case closely and hold Cuba to account bilaterally and multilaterally . my hon . friend have put Pastor Lorenzo ' s name on the record in this House . I also endorse everything she say about the Open Doors event in the House next Wednesday . Electoral Commission Committee the hon . member for Lancaster and Fleetwood , represent the Speaker ' s Committee on the Electoral Commission , be ask — Party Spending Limits : impact on the Democratic Process whether the committee have have recent discussion with the Electoral Commission on the potential impact of increase electoral party spending limit on the democratic process . the committee discuss the matter raise at a private meeting with the Electoral Commission in November . the commission have say that the UK Government ' s recent increase to spending limit and donation reporting threshold represent significant change to the UK ' s political finance control . the commission have publish update guidance to support party to understand and comply with the new limit ; however , it be concerned that increase spending limit risk significantly more scope for high - spend party to campaign . the Daily Mirror report at the weekend that the conservative party be already spend more on the Prime Minister ' s Facebook page and advert than Donald Trump be spend on his , so the motivation for double the party spending limit be pretty clear already . if this can not be stop , can the commission at least do more to increase transparency , so that people can see this shoddy attempt to buy democracy for what it be ? the commission have say that any change to spending reporting threshold should be support by rigorous analysis — which of course be for the Government to publish — include of the likely impact on public confidence and transparency . the commission continue to make the case for change to the political finance system to far improve public trust and confidence . Church Commissioners the hon . member for South West Bedfordshire , represent the Church Commissioners , be ask — Anglican Hospital in Gaza what support the Church be provide to the Anglican Hospital in Gaza . the House may not be aware that the Anglican Church be one of the large provider of healthcare and education globally . the al - Ahli Hospital in Gaza be an example of this . before Christmas , the hospital be severely damage again and a tank demolish its front wall . Most of the hospital staff be take away by the Israeli Defence Force and the Church of England have ask the Government here to inquire about their wellbeing and whereabouts and to request that they be release . intimidation by hard - line settler have prompt the Patriarch to say that clergy be fight for their life , and that the armenian quarter face a violent demise . be a christian presence in Jerusalem still viable ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend for bring this issue before the House . he be right : a century ago , a quarter of Jerusalem be christian ; now , just 1 % of the population be , and in the armenian quarter of the old city , the christian presence have come under intensify threat from intimidation and aggressive property acquisition by settler . the Church of England be very concerned that the rule of law should prevail in Israel and the status quo be maintain . it be unconscionable that Christians should be drive from the holy land . that complete that set of question — on a point of order , Mr Speaker ? that would normally come after business question . it be about DCMS question . very well . I be grateful . when I refer to December 2018 , I should have make it clear that that be the date of the freedom of information request by Dorian Gerhold . I shall write to the Minister explain what information I want . excellent . that clarify that . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we next week ' s business ? the business for the week commence 15 January will include : Monday 15 January — Committee of the whole House and remain stage of the Animal Welfare ( Livestock Exports ) Bill . Tuesday 16 January — Committee of the whole House on the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill ( day one ) . Wednesday 17 January — Committee of the whole House on the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill ( day two ) . Thursday 18 January — debate on a motion on the loan charge , follow by a debate on a motion on HS2 compensation . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 19 January — private member ' Bills . the provisional business for the week commence 22 January include : Monday 22 January — second reading of the Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill . happy new year to you , Mr Speaker , to staff , to member and to those watch . it might be a new year , but I be afraid it be the same old story : a Government who have run out of road and idea , and who be not fix the problem we face but make they bad . many on the Leader of the House ' s own side have reach the same conclusion . yet another MP have resign have lose trust , another have admit that over their 13 year thing have get bad , and a former Immigration Minister be take to the airwave to say that their Rwanda plan will not work — and it be only the first week back . but some thing have change . the Prime Minister seem to have have a dramatic reversal in strategy . despite just month ago rather laughably say that he be the change candidate , his late reset confirm what we all know : he be now just offer more of the same — more of the same low growth , more of the same high taxis , more of the same backlog and broken public service , and more of the same historically low living standard . only this hapless Prime Minister would set himself target that be hard to miss and then miss they . we have further confirmation today , with new figure from the BBC show every NHS target miss , and not just this past year , when the Government want to blame the strike , or since the pandemic , which might be a little understandable — no : key NHS target have be miss in each and every one of the past seven year . that be the second half of their time in office , after all their decision and policy take effect . that be the record of this Government . let we have that debate in this election year about the choice the voter will face : more of the same failure from the Conservatives , or change and hope with Labour . turn to the sub - postmaster scandal , we welcome the Government ' s announcement of emergency legislation to quickly pardon those wrongfully convict , and we stand ready to work with they . what have now come to wide public attention be the travesty , injustice and two decade of struggle they face . will the Leader of the House give we more detail today and assure we that as the spotlight inevitably move on , the Government will not take their foot off the gas in get urgent justice , redress and accountability ? the issue go wider . it follow a pattern similar to other injustice in which the state or corporate cover - up have wrong ordinary people , such as Windrush , infect blood , build safety and Grenfell , Hillsborough and more . all those case , transpire over decade , come to public awareness after the notable effort of Back Benchers and dog journalist work with the victim . today ' s Government should be learn wide lesson . recourse and redress prove every time to be incredibly difficult , lengthy and costly , fight against powerful organisation that employ smoke and mirror , expensive lawyer and enjoy the protection of the establishment , leave victim face year and year of frustrating battle . no amount of money can compensate for a life ruin . how be the Government collectively review these recent scandal to make it easy for group action against vested interest ? will the Leader of the House ensure that the Government also expedite compensation for the Windrush scheme and victim of infected blood , who be still be frustrate ; pay out for the remediation of build safety where innocent leaseholder be still leave in limbo ; and bring in a legal duty of candour , as demand by the Hillsborough family . be justice delay not justice deny ? another big learning be for accountability . time and again , we see those responsible rewarded for failure and not hold accountable for their failing , with more Government contract , bonus , gong and peerage and the cost pick up by the taxpayer . I have ask the Leader of the House this before , but will she make it easy for Parliament to strip people of honour and peerage when they be find responsible for serious failing ? will she also condemn the practice , as we see over the new year , of honour be award for failure ? will the Leader of the House bring forward proposal to go after those responsible to pay financially and face the consequence ? will she put an end to the revolving door of award Government contract ? in the case of Fujitsu , the contract be apparently worth several billion pound . be it any wonder that trust in politic have be so erode when people do not see any accountability and when ordinary people pick up the bill while those responsible get off scot - free ? happy new year to you , Mr Speaker , and to all colleague . this week , I be delighted to welcome holocaust survivor Mala Tribich to the Commons , where she view the exhibition in Portcullis House . I encourage all member to see it . I be sure that I speak for the whole House in say that our thought remain with the hostage still keep captive in Gaza — next week see we pass the 100th day since they be take — just as our thought remain with all the innocent people catch up in those event . may I also give a shout out to the Royal Navy ' s rowing team , HMS Oardacious , who be row across the Atlantic for mental health support ? with just 500 nautical mile to go , they may land before next week ' s business question , and they be currently 100 mile ahead of the next team . I turn to the substantive issue that the hon . Lady raise : the Post Office scandal . she will know about the exist legislation announce on 29 November , but it be to be welcome that we be now take unprecedented step to quash conviction . that work be well under way , and we want to bring it to the House swiftly . the House will be aware of the risk outline by the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , but I think we will find they necessary . while the inquiry will look at some of the issue raise in this place , the hon . Lady be right that we should reflect now on what we could learn , and in particular what we should conclude about the power give to arm ' s length body of the state and what operational independence should mean for those organisation . subsequent Conservative Administrations have be right in grip and try to resolve some difficult and long - run issue , from Windrush to the apology give by the noble Lord Cameron to the Hillsborough family , the apology give by the current Prime Minister to former member of our armed force who have be shame and drive out of service for be gay , and the 2017 infected blood inquiry and the later compensation study , which will make some amend for the decade of injustice and suffering that those people have endure . I be optimistic that we will reach some justice for those affect this year ; I know that the Paymaster General be work hard to do that . we be right to have a full public inquiry into the Horizon Post Office scandal , and we have rightly hear much about that this week , include in statement and urgent question . I pay tribute to all right hon . and hon . member and to the noble Lord Arbuthnot for the work they have do on this issue . I also pay tribute to the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton . in 2021 , as a Back Bencher , he be fight hard for sub - postmaster , and he have diligently pursue this issue in his ministerial role . that be his record on this issue and on much else , too . I remind the House that when he be chair of the all - party parliamentary group on fair business banking , he help people whose business have be deliberately and cynically destroy by their lender , win compensation from Lloyds , hbos and Royal Bank of Scotland to the tune of hundred of million of pound . he be a very good man , and I know that he will bring forward legislation on this issue quickly . the hon . Lady mention NHS performance datum . monthly performance data show that in November overall waiting list fall by more than 95 , 000 from October , down to 7 . 6 million . there be also 60 , 000 few patient wait for care in November than in the previous month , and 112 , 000 few than in September . we have some difficult issue to deal with post pandemic , but the Prime Minister ' s plan be work , and the new Secretary of State for Health be bring forward further measure . as the hon . Lady will know , we have stand up an enormous number of new service and new healthcare professional as well as immense number of new diagnostic centre , and we be vastly increase the number of operation that can take place . I do not wish to take any lecture from the hon . Lady on performance in the NHS . I point she to what Labour be do in Wales , where I think the current situation in term of waiting list be four time bad than in England . nor will I take any lesson on tax from a party that be clobber british citizen where it be in power . it be double rate in Wales , and its London Mayor be clobber hard - work people and charity with the ultra low emission zone . he have just capitulate to the militant trade union on transport but do not know where to find the money to do that . labour be soft on crime ; the Met ' s £ 70 million black hole in its budget demonstrate that . time and again , where Labour be in power , it show that it be not on the side of the british people . I call the Father of the House . my right hon . Friend rightly mention the holocaust exhibition , and you , Mr Speaker , will lead the holocaust service in a few day ' time . recently , I meet holocaust survivor Anita Lasker - Wallfisch , who say that the propose memorial in Victoria Tower Gardens be too small for its purpose and too large for the park . the hybrid Committee will meet on Tuesday and Wednesday next week . will my right hon . friend consider talk to the Department for Culture , Media and Sport and the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities to see whether they could put up scaffold on a temporary basis to show the amount of space take by the box of the so - call learn centre , and perhaps some plywood board to illustrate the 23 fin that be suppose to be there ? then , we could go round the outside of the park to see whether it be visible , and see from inside how much damage it do to that well - love park . I know that my hon . friend continue to press on this particular project . he will know that I be limited in what I can do to assist he , but I will write to the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities to make sure that he have hear , again , what my hon . friend have say . I call the Scottish National party spoke - person . Bliadhna mhath ù r — happy new year to you , Mr Speaker , and to everyone in this place and watch . some positive news to start our first business question of 2024 : recent datum from the Office for National Statistics and the Scottish Parliament Information Centre — the Commons Library equivalent — show that Scotland ' s gender pay gap be at a record low , and almost half that of the UK as a whole . woman ' s weekly full - time pay have rise more than 10 % in the last year . any gap be , of course , too high , but I be sure that the Leader of the House would like to acknowledge the Scottish Government ' s gender pay gap action plan , the first in the UK , which undoubtedly have help to achieve those welcome result . the Leader of the House ' s Government could take several step to help end the gender pay gap and advance equality right across these isle . after repeatedly shelve the employment Bill , they could finally act to make workplace fair , particularly in the current cost of living crisis , which we know impact woman more . they could legislate for mandatory gender and ethnicity pay gap reporting . they could finally deliver compensation for WASPI woman — Women against State Pension Inequality — who have wait far too long to receive justice . more broadly , they could tackle the gender pension gap , as yearly income among pensioner be on average more than £ 7 , 000 low for woman . while the Leader of the House consider her response to those suggestion , could she also respond to report in the medium that her Government block a minority ethnic woman from join the board of Channel 4 without offer a reason ? I be curious to hear what action she take in response to the recent comment by the Home Secretary , and whether she will condemn they now . they do nothing to dispel perception that a culture of misogyny in the UK Government be hamper progress on these issue . as she be a former Minister for Women and Equalities , I be sure that these matter be close to her heart , so will she support a debate on they , where perhaps some solution might finally be agree ? I also wish the hon . Lady a very happy new year . I do welcome the good news on the gender pay gap in Scotland . it be nice to see the SNP champion some good progress in Scotland and give credit where it be due . with regard to the UK Government ' s record , we be make good progress : since 2010 we have an additional 2 million woman in work . as the author of the woman in work road map , which look at every aspect of a woman ' s life and try to address the reason why she be financially disadvantaged right through her life , from when she leave school , through raise a family to the pension gap , I know that this Government be commit to deliver on those disparity . the hon . Lady raise the issue of Channel 4 . I do not know the answer to that today , but I shall certainly ensure that the relevant Department have hear what she say . the hon . Lady will know what the Home Secretary have say about the other matter she raise . I hope she also know that the Home Secretary be a very decent fellow who love his wife greatly . they have be through a lot in recent year as a couple and the hon . Lady will also know that . I will conclude by add some further good news about Scotland , which I hope the hon . Lady will welcome . I be delighted that part of the Stone of Destiny have be recover from SNP headquarters . I be sure that be a great relief to all member . it be easy to lose thing , I know , like a couple of billion quid from your budget , but I be sorry to hear that the SNP have take as much care of it as it have take as the steward of Scotland ' s public service . happily , the Tupperware container it be store in have protect it during its stay and the police raid on that premise . I join my scottish colleague in encourage the SNP to find a more suitable home for it . traditional craft skill provide job and sustain business . they also emphasise our shared history : everything from wheelwright to weaver , and from corsetry to carpentry . it be therefore very good news that , after a long campaign by the all - party parliamentary group for craft , which I chair , the Government announce that our country will now join the UNESCO convention for the safeguarding of the intangible cultural heritage . will the Leader of the House bring a statement to the House say when we will join , which will allow colleague across the Chamber to question what far step the Government might take to promote the expertise and experience that epitomise the good of Britain ? I thank my right hon . friend both for his question and for the diligent work he and his colleague have do in raise the profile and shine a spotlight on the incredible heritage of craft and skill that we ought to celebrate retaining and to educate other about . I shall certainly write to the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport . give that my right hon . friend have just miss departmental question today , I will ask she to inform he about the timetable . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . Mr Speaker , I wish you and member across the House a very happy new year . I thank the Leader of the House for the business statement and for announce the Backbench Business for next Thursday . I give her advance notice that we have a heavily subscribe application for a debate on Holocaust Memorial Day on Thursday 25 January , if we be allocate the time . Holocaust Memorial Day itself be on 27 January . the Backbench Business Committee would very much welcome application for debate slot in Westminster Hall . we can secure for member debate slot on Tuesday morning and Thursday afternoon . while we have a glut of application for the Chamber , we very much welcome application for Westminster Hall debate to be submit as soon as possible . I be also glad to report that application form for Backbench Business debate can now be attain from the Vote Office , so member can now just pick up a form , fill it in and submit it . on a local issue for my constituency , the Tyne bridge between Gateshead and Newcastle have be earmark for funding from the Department for Transport to give it a much - need repair job and upgrade . I be afraid , though , that the money have be promise but have not be forthcoming , and the work very much need to start as soon as possible . indeed , if we do not get the work do , it will not be sound , solid and pristine for its anniversary in four year ' time . will the Leader of the House check what be happen with the Department for Transport and see whether the fund can be release so that we can get on with the work ? I thank the hon . Gentleman again for his very helpful advert for future Backbench Business debate . in particular , it be good to hear that the Holocaust Memorial Day debate will be very well attend . it obviously have particular poignancy this year . I congratulate he on his innovation with the Vote Office . that be indeed welcome progress . the hon . Gentleman also mention a very important constituency matter . as well as celebrate a landmark anniversary , the bridge be a vital thoroughfare for his constituent . give that the next session of Transport question will not be until February , I shall write to the Secretary of State on his behalf . as a Lancashire MP , Mr Speaker , you will be aware that salmon stock run on a knife edge in our river . [ laughter . ] I know that there be many famous salmon river near your home , Mr Speaker . may I ask the Leader of the House if we can have an urgent debate on the decline in this iconic specie in England ? part of that debate will have to cover the impact that cormorant predation be have on salmon smolt . before I sit down , I must draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests : I be a former , very undistinguished , chair of the Angling Trust . I know that this be a matter of concern for many member around the country . in my own county a number of river be suffer particularly as a result of the issue raise by my hon . friend . give that the next relevant question session will not be until February , I will write to the Secretary of State to make he aware of those issue . may I wish you and your staff a happy new year , Mr Speaker ? as my hon . friend the shadow Leader of the House point out , the handling of the Post Office scandal and the delayed justice involve will be familiar to many people , include my constituent , who have be catch up in similar outrageous scandal from Grenfell to Windrush to contaminated blood . in each case minister tell they that there be nothing they can do , until they be force into action by public shame . will the Leader of the House please allow Government time in which we can make progress for the victim of those scandal ? I know that many member have constituent who be still wait for compensation or the resolution of issue on a number of front . I shall not repeat what I say in response to the shadow Leader of the House , but I will say that I shall ask the Cabinet Office what more the head of the civil service can do to ensure that lesson be learn from the last few week in particular . I know that the Cabinet Office evaluate inquiry to try to improve the quality of subsequent work . that have certainly happen in connection with big public inquiry , when it have look into what constitute good practice in respect of everything from look after witness to ensure that those inquiry take place speedily . however , I will ensure that the relevant people in the Cabinet Office have hear the hon . Lady ' s concern , which I be sure be echo by many other member on both side of the House . on Friday 23 February my private Member ' s Bill , the Hereditary Titles ( Female Succession ) Bill , be due to be debate , but sadly it be no . 5 on the Order Paper , and I fear that we may not have much time in which to debate it . I wonder whether the Leader of the House could allocate Government time for a debate on the constitutional sexism which mean that an eighth of the seat in the other place be reserve for man . through such a debate we might be able to seek Government support , and also demonstrate the strength of feeling on both side of the House that this constitutional sexism need to end . hear , hear . my hon . friend will have hear that expression of support for her Bill from member in all part of the House . I congratulate she on her diligence : I know that she have be work with the Cabinet Office for several year to ensure that any impediment to her Bill ' s progress be deal with . it be a very narrow Bill , which do not deal with any other issue such as inheritance . I will certainly ensure that the relevant Minister at the Cabinet Office be aware that the Bill be on the Order Paper . I know that my hon . friend be have discussion with many Ministers about it , and if I can facilitate any of those conversation , I stand ready to do so . More than 10 hospitality venue close each day in the UK . before Christmas , I visit the wonderful Abbey deli in Bath to hear about the challenge that hospitality business face in my constituency . I be tell that one solution might be a slide scale of vat , which could result in both more tax revenue for the Government and high profit for small business . can we have a statement from the relevant Minister on what the Government will do to support hospitality business in 2024 ? the hon . Lady raise an important issue . she will know that the Treasury , in particular , have be very concerned about this sector , to which it provide particular support through the pandemic year . since then , it have continue to support the sector through rate relief and so forth . I fully appreciate that VAT threshold be a particular problem for these type of business , and I will make sure that my right hon . friend the Chancellor have hear what she say . the hon . Lady be a very experienced parliamentarian , and she will know what she can do as we approach the Budget to ensure that these issue be address . my right hon . friend have refer to arm ' s length Government agency , of which the Post Office be just one . I be sure that member across the House will have experience of track down decision maker within these organisation to hold they to account on behalf of our constituent . can we have a debate on the accountability of these agency ? it may emerge from that debate how we can make they more accountable . I thank my hon . friend for raise that suggestion . I think it would be a very timely debate indeed . I have already express my view on the subject , and I know that , on Monday , the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , speak about how accountability be key to ensure good oversight of arm ' s length body . my hon . friend the Member for Cleethorpes ( Martin Vickers ) know how to apply for a debate , and I be sure it would be well attend . my constituent , Mr Richard Troote , have to wait over 18 month to receive from his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs a national insurance refund worth more than £ 1 , 300 for the tax year 2021 - 22 . HMRC still have not respond to his complaint , or indeed his request for a complaint , on the refund . could the Leader of the House ask for a write statement on what Treasury Ministers will do to provide more support to hmrc civil servant to try to deal with these backlog ? in a cost of living crisis , none of our constituent can afford to wait 18 month for these refund . it be not acceptable . I agree with what the hon . Gentleman say . money owe by HMRC accrue interest , but that arrangement be not reciprocal . as Treasury question will not be until later next month , I will write to the Treasury if he give I detail of the case . hopefully we will be able to get this resolve swiftly for his constituent . can we have a debate on bus priority measure so that I can express my constituent ' strong opposition to the proposal by Barnet Council and the Mayor of London to introduce bus lane on the A1000 in High Barnet and Whetstone ? they will cause huge congestion , they will damage local business and they be not need or want . my right hon . friend be right that any such proposal should really be develop with input from the local community , and something have go wrong if the community be so galvanised against a scheme that be due to come to the area . the next Transport question be not until 8 February , but I will make sure that the Secretary of State know about her concern . I be afraid that the Mayor of London be the decision maker , and I hope he will listen to she and her constituent . when we ask write question and when our office require information from Government Departments , our constituent expect a comprehensive response . however , we be get standardised response from UK Visas and Immigration , in particular . we have desperate people who fear for their future , so will the Leader of the House talk to the Home Office about how we can have comprehensive response so that we can know the timeline , the detail and the reason for the delay in processing case ? I be sorry to hear that the hon . Lady and perhaps other colleague be not get the quality of reply that they need . she will know that we take some measure with the Home Office to try to improve its correspondence service to this House , include get the permanent secretary to come in to see I . she will also know that Home Office surgery be available for hon . member , but I will certainly make sure that the permanent secretary have hear again what she have say . I will also make sure that my team who work with the parliamentary clerk in those Departments have hear what she have say and will pass that back . yesterday , at Prime Minister ' s question , it be a real pleasure to welcome the former Deputy Chief of the General Staff , Lieutenant General Sir Chris Tickell , now the Chief Royal Engineer . the Royal Engineers be a key part of community life in the Medway town and their rank make up 10 % of the british armed force . the Leader of the House know from her own experience that the UK have some of the fine armed force in the world , but there be a real question about recruitment and retention in the british armed force . may we have an urgent statement from the Ministry of Defence set out what concrete step the Government be take to address that ? I declare an interest , in that I use to be a reservist in the british armed force . I thank my hon . friend for that important question and for his previous service . unfortunately , the date of the next Defence question have yet to be finalise , so I will make sure that the Secretary of State have hear what he have say today and the fact that he have raise this issue . the strong rationale for hs2 be always about the capacity on the west coast line , rather than speed . the Select Committee have now learn that when HS2 start to run from London to Birmingham it will actually mean few seat on train far north to Manchester , thus reduce the capacity . give that the Government create this mess by cancel hs2 to Manchester , may we have a statement or debate in Government time on how we increase capacity on the west coast main line , so that Manchester be properly serve by rail service ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that important matter . give that transport question be not until 8 February , I will certainly make sure that the Secretary of State have hear what he have say today . I be sure that this will be about not just rail line , but roll stock be purchase and many other issue . I be sure the whole House will be relieve to hear that the takeover of Southend United football club be finally settle over the festive period . will my right hon . friend join I in congratulate the conservative leader of Southend City Council , Councillor Tony Cox , on his exceptional effort in get that across the line and , of course , Justin Rees , the new owner ? will she also update this House on when the football governance Bill be go to be debate ? many member want to contribute to that debate , to make sure that we have a more secure future for english football . I be sure I speak for the whole House when I say that we be delighted to hear that Southend United be alive and kicking . as a Portsmouth fan , I very much appreciate how much that will mean to the local community . I congratulate everyone on all that they have do to ensure that that happen , particularly Councillor Tony Cox , as I understand he play a major role . I believe that the football governance Bill have support in all part of the House ; we will bring it forward swiftly and further business will be announce in the usual way . across the House , I think we all welcome the Government ' s action this week on the Horizon scandal , the big miscarriage of justice in the UK . do the Leader of the House think it will take an ITV drama for the Government to act quickly on the infected blood scandal , which be of course the large treatment disaster in the history of the NHS ? as we already have the final recommendation on compensation from Sir Brian Langstaff , why can the Government not bring forward a statement next week set out that compensation will start to be pay from next week ? I thank the right hon . Lady for raise this issue yet again . I be in regular contact with the Paymaster General , my right hon . friend the Member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) , and I be confident that it will not take an ITV drama for we to resolve the issue . he be work through what the right hon . Lady will know be some very difficult issue . he have the final shift in this particular story , and I be confident he will deliver on it . we be all shock by the layer on layer of injustice that be level against those who suffer in the Post Office Horizon scandal . terrible and shocking as that be , the right hon . Lady and I know that the infected blood inquiry be on another level . we want to ensure people get justice , whether they be infect directly or be affect in some way . we be determined to do that , and I know that the Paymaster General be go to deliver . I have meet with several family in my constituency whose child have education , health and care plan , yet they still experience difficulty find special educational need and disability support . I have take up their case with senior council officer , who tell I that SEND be the no . 1 financial challenge for the council . can we have a debate on the change make in the Children and Families Act 2014 and the effect they be have through increase demand for service in local authority ? in North Yorkshire alone , the council believe 1 , 000 case last year be attributable to change make by that Act . my normal answer would be that my hon . friend need to apply for a debate and that I be sure it would be well attend , but that be not require because there be such a debate this afternoon . my hon . friend be always first out of the block , and he have get the point he wish to raise in Hansard before anyone else , I congratulate he on do so . the Leader of the House be always keen to talk about competent government , yet her Government pay £ 318 million every day in debt interest and national debt be £ 37 , 730 for every man , woman and child in the UK . the Government have burn £ 4 . 2 billion worth of personal protective equipment and have waste £ 66 , 600 million on HS2 , which be now just a rail link from London to Birmingham . in the spirit of her interest in competent government , will the Leader of the House make a statement on which of those achievement she feel most clearly illustrate the competence of her government ? the hon . Lady be right that we have be through some very difficult challenge ; respond to a global pandemic be one of they . despite all those difficulty , we still manage to have people in England pay low tax than people in Scotland and we have manage to have a balanced budget , as oppose to the Scottish National party , which be £ 2 million adrift over the next four year . St Helier Hospital have be save , thankfully . accident and emergency and maternity service be now protect within the London Borough of Sutton , and a second state - of - the - art hospital be be build in our borough as well . work be already under way to prepare the land and improvement work be happen at the hospital , but can we have a debate in Government time on the progress in deliver the Government ' s new hospital programme and the benefit it have for my constituent in Carshalton and Wallington ? I congratulate my hon . friend on all he have do to secure the new facility — I think he have two new healthcare facility in his local area . he will know how to apply for a debate ; I envisage that it would cover not just capital infrastructure , but the massive uplift in healthcare professional , as it be no good just have brick and mortar . he will know that we have smash our manifesto target of recruit 50 , 000 new nurse . a ceasefire in Gaza be desperately need — one that begin with humanitarian pause and become sustain , so that the remain hostage can be get out and , crucially , aid can be get in . give that UN agency be critical to get aid into Gaza but have secure only half the $ 1 . 2 billion need to implement their response plan and support the immediate humanitarian need in Gaza and the west bank , can we have a debate in Government time on what more Britain can do to galvanise international effort behind the UN ' s flash appeal to support the Palestinians ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that matter and , in do so , for provide an advert for that unmet need . he will know that , as well as step forward and provide aid to support people both in this particular humanitarian crisis and prior to October , the UK have play a considerable role in not just provide funding but get other to pledge and deliver finance . I shall make sure that the Foreign Secretary have hear his concern in that area . I will also write to the international development Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , ask he to contact the hon . Gentleman ' s office to update he on what more be be do . can we have a debate on the UK Government ' s support for Nigeria to defend freedom of religion or belief in light of the appalling atrocity that take place on Christmas eve in Plateau state ? at 4 o ' clock in the afternoon , a co - ordinate attack by Fulani militant see 15 village attack and approximately 200 people kill , in one of the large mass attack in recent year . christian appear to be specifically target , as militant go from door to door seek out church pastor to kill . a debate would enable we to join call for justice , restoration and humanitarian support for the thousand who have be displace . I thank my hon . friend for raise that appalling atrocity . it be one of the large mass attack that we have see in recent history and will have bring absolute terror to that community . she will know that the Foreign Office be do considerable work through the " strengthen Peace and Resilience in Nigeria " programme . the Department will have be very shocked and disappoint to see this take place . I shall make sure that both the Foreign Secretary and the international development Minister have hear what she have say . the Leader of the House say that she would take no lesson on the NHS , yet in the past four year alone the number of patient wait more than four hour in Barnsley A & E have rise by 400 % . why , under this Conservative Government , do my constituent have to wait so long for basic healthcare ? the hon . Lady will know that we be deal with the unprecedented challenge arise from the pandemic . she will know that we have invest record amount in the NHS . she will know also that there have be an unprecedented uplift in the number of healthcare professional . she will know also from the figure out today that those waiting list be come down , and we will continue with that work . it have take a huge amount of investment in diagnostic centre and in provide 2 million more operation to crack through that backlog . although covid itself be over , we be still deal with some of the issue that be cause by that pandemic , but we will get through it , and we will return to normal business in the NHS . the ombudsman conclude that there be official maladministration in relation to those in the Women against State Pension Inequality Campaign , who be not properly inform about change to their state pension . we have be wait for its further report on whether this cause injustice to the victim . I understand that a provisional version of that report be now write , with a final vision therefore imminent . give most people expect that there will have be an injustice in many case and give the scale of redress that will be require where it be find , can the Leader of the House confirm that the Government be aware of these provisional finding and let we know when Ministers will bring forward detail of a redress scheme for Parliament to debate and properly approve ? my hon . friend raise a very important matter . this be a critical piece of work . I will make sure that both the relevant Minister and the ombudsman ' s office have hear his concern today , and I will ask the Minister to give an update on timing . Schoolchildren in south - east Northumberland have always enjoy the ability to choose which school they want to attend , but a change in the oversubscription criterion have mean that many kid , mainly in rural area , be separate from the people they use to go to school with , and their friend and family . they also often have much long journey time to get to a different school . can we have a debate in Government time about student allocation in school in south - east Northumberland , please ? I be sorry to hear about the situation in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency . it be really important that we have genuine school choice . that be part of the way that we can drive standard . of course , we can only have that if there be good local planning on school place and people anticipate the need . I will certainly ensure that what he have say be hear by the Secretary of State for Education . the next Question Time be on 29 January , if he wish to raise the matter directly , but it be an issue of local planning and decision making . I be very much look forward to welcome the Leader of the House to Bracknell on Saturday . while there be many challenge out there , and sadly some negativity and vitriol on social medium , will she reinforce her customary positive narrative by give a shout - out for all that be good about east Berkshire — notably , our fantastic education and employment opportunity , our superb sense of community , and all those who be do so much to help other ? I be very much look forward to visit my hon . friend ' s constituency . we have be through a rough few year , but the people of this country and his constituency have be absolutely stoic . I know that his local area enjoy nearly full employment and high average wage . I think that all 40 school in his area be rate good or outstanding , and his business community have attract unprecedented foreign investment . I know that he be eager to do more for his constituent , but I look forward to learn more about what his community be deliver when I visit shortly . I gently point out that it be quite important to ask the Leader of the House something that relate to business in the House , rather than for shout - out , which be not quite appropriate for business question . I invite the Leader of the House , and in fact all hon . member , to join I and Samaritans on Monday for a brew . Blue Monday may have be a term invent by the travel industry to encourage we to book holiday , but we have convert it to Brew Monday , when we can talk about the importance of talk to each other in an effort to prevent suicide . to back that up , can we have a debate in Government time on the national suicide prevention strategy , and look at what else we can do besides Brew Monday to prevent suicide ? on behalf of all colleague , I thank the hon . Lady for all the work that she have do over a long period to raise awareness of the issue , and particularly of Brew Monday . we know that the week in the wake of Christmas be a difficult one . credit card bill arrive and all sort of thing happen to add further stress to individual . I thank she for raise awareness of Brew Monday and encourage everyone to take part in it . she will know how to apply for a debate , but I hope that she will recognise that the Chancellor commit in the last Budget to provide an extra £ 10 million over the next few year to support the voluntary , community and social enterprise sector through the suicide prevention grant . we have that strategy , and I be sure that if she apply for a debate it would be well attend . last Friday , I visit resident affect by the flood in Leighton Buzzard . I have also have communication from the leader of Central Bedfordshire Council point out the great upset about damage to residential property and highway in the local authority area . although we be severely affect , we be not a local authority designate under the Government ' s flood recovery framework , so could the Leader of the House give I some guidance on how we can get more investment from water company , the Environment Agency and internal drainage board to ensure that we protect property and highway and prevent such an awful event from affect people in the future ? may I first say how sorry I be that my hon . friend ' s constituent have be affect ? he will know that , through the Government ' s long - term policy statement publish in 2020 , there be a methodical plan to protect property . we have protect about 600 , 000 home from flood over the past few year with an unprecedented investment , but clearly some area be not eligible for particular scheme . give that the next question to the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs will not be until next month , and that this will be an imminent issue for his local colleague , I will write to the Secretary of State and ask that someone from the Department contact his local authority to discuss the issue they be have and see what support can be provide . in the wake of the Post Office Horizon IT scandal , could a Minister from the Cabinet Office make a statement and announce an immediate investigation into all Fujitsu IT system in use by the Government , and those that have be use historically , to establish whether they have bug and glitch ? we need to look particularly at the Child Maintenance Service , which I be aware use a Fujitsu system until at least 2021 . I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that . I refer he to Hansard , where he can see what have be say already in the statement and urgent question early this week . I shall certainly ensure that both the Post Office Minister and the Cabinet Office Minister with oversight of procurement have hear what he have say today . will my right hon . friend join I in congratulate Watermouth Valley camping park in my constituency , which have be name the good campsite in the UK in the camping and glampe award ? may we have a debate in Government time about how we could well support tourism and hospitality business by reduce vat , enable more business to enjoy similar success ? first , I congratulate Watermouth Valley camping park on its achievement . my hon . friend will know that , as we approach the Budget , the Chancellor ' s door will be open for lobby — I know that other hon . member have mention vat rate , in particular . it be surely one of the upside of our new - find freedom that we be able to vary rate on product and service . I know that this sector , as well as the hospitality sector , will be keen to ask for thing in the forthcoming Budget . I will certainly ensure that the Chancellor have hear what she have say . I thank the Leader of the House for announce the upcoming business . resident of the town of Sherburn in Elmet , in my constituency , have face a wave of awful crime in recent month , with car steal from driveway and home burgle . I be sure that she can appreciate just how stressful and traumatic that be for resident , who feel unsafe in their own home . that be compound by the fact that Sherburn , like many rural town in Britain , do not have its own manned police station . may we therefore have an urgent debate on how we can support resident and local police force , such as mine , to tackle the grow and pernicious issue of rural crime ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that . we have a good record and have halve crime since 2010 with roughly the same resource — once online fraud be strip out — but some area and issue remain stubborn . I very much appreciate that it be particularly challenge in rural area . I will certainly ensure that the Home Office have hear his concern . I know that , in other area , there be good practice where even if there be not a physical police station , there be a physical police presence , and a lot of good practice be be share across police area , but I will ensure that the Home Office have hear what he have say . my right hon . Friend mention the chaos that would have ensue have the RMT go ahead with its strike on the underground over this past week . the strike be call after all the other trade union have accept the 5 % pay offer , and the RMT and other union be tell there be no more money leave . however , at the very last moment — literally hour before the strike be due to start — the Mayor of London magically find £ 30 million . he propose to increase the council tax share in London by 8 . 7 % . he refuse to give the Metropolitan police the funding it need , and indeed he can find money for his vanity scheme , yet he still carry on with the ULEZ expansion , which be hate across London . may we have a debate in Government time on the chaos that seem to ensue in City Hall , and on its finance ? londoner be enjoy the bad of all possible world . on the Mayor ' s own assessment , he have have spectacular failure with regard to strike — under his tenure , Londoners have have to endure 139 transport strike , I think . my hon . friend be right that this be not just capitulate to union , while not protect basic public service ; it be reward people for take strike action . I be not sure whether the Mayor have find £ 30 million , as there be some scepticism and question be be ask about his budget , but he certainly have not find the £ 70 million shortfall in the Met ' s budget to allow it to continue its reform and good work . it be a sorry state , and I hope it will not be too long before they will have someone in City Hall who will look after their interest , have the backbone to stand up to militant trade union and realise that clobber hard - work people and charity through ULEZ be not a good idea . in November the Carrbridge Centre , which do important work with child and other resident in Woodchurch in my constituency , have its Barclays bank account close without warn , despite the fact that there be a very large amount of money in the account . it be one of many charity across the country that have experience the same thing . the closure place the centre in an extremely difficult situation , as it could not pay in or out of the account . it have an impact on the running of the centre and the payment of staff wage and be especially problematic during the run - up to Christmas with the special activity that the centre have plan . I be pleased to say that those event eventually do go ahead thank to the determination and commitment of the staff and trustee , but none the less it be wrong that they have have to go through this . may we have a debate in Government time on the impact of such arbitrary decision by bank such as Barclays on charity and on possible action that can be take against bank act in that way ? I be very sorry to hear about what have happen in the hon . Lady ' s constituency , and I applaud the staff and trustee who continue undeterred to provide those service and support to their local community . in such case , I always hope that the public affair department of business — in this case Barclays — be listen in to business question . if Barclays have not already make redress for this situation , I hope that it will get in touch with her office . I will ensure that the Minister have hear what have be say . the difficulty in these situation be not just that something happen and an account be frozen or close , but that people be incapable of find out why that have happen or try to get it resolve . it be a shoddy situation and I hope Barclays will phone she this afternoon . in August last year , Partington post office in my constituency close , follow the retirement of its long - serve postmistress . Partington be an isolated community , with low level of car ownership and appal public transport , and of course its town centre bank have long since close . it be several mile to the near main post office — or , for those without transport , a multiple - hour round trip . may we have a debate in Government time on the support available to post office in isolated community that do not qualify for the rural support service grant , but where it be incredibly challenging for those community to reach other post office , to ensure that those service remain in community such as Partington ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise this issue . he will know that it be cover by work undertake by the Post Office Minister and by the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , which run a successful scheme look at how service might be retain in the local community , even if the brick and mortar of the post office have be stand down . the next question to the Department , which I think run that good practice scheme , be on 22 January , so the hon . Gentleman might wish to raise the matter then , but I will also ensure that both relevant Ministers have hear his concern and ask their office to get in touch with he . I thank the Leader of the House for another opportunity to ask a question on the state of freedom of religion or belief . in the persecution of Christians in Ukraine under russian control , one pastor , Dimitry , suffer under russian interrogation because of his evangelical faith . russian soldier have remove crosse , stop service , fingerprint everyone in the congregation and take possession of church building . the russian action against Christians in Ukraine must stop . at the same time , a new religious law have be introduce in Belarus . in 2023 , belarusian authority bulldoze and liquidate the New Life Pentecostal church , detain and fine dozen of christian religious leader for perceive political activity , and blacklist human right organisation work on religious freedom issue . last week , on 3 January , Belarus sign into law provision impose more restriction on religious community . will the Leader of the House join I in denounce that belarusian law , and will she ask the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office Minister to take up the matter with the belarusian authority ? I thank the hon . gentleman for again shine a spotlight , this week on two appalling situation : one in Belarus and the other in Russian - occupy ukrainian territory . in the Orthodox calendar , Christmas be just last Saturday , so the event will have be particularly concern for many in those community . I will certainly ensure that the Foreign Office have hear his concern . he know that it will take those matter seriously , and I thank he again for bring they to the attention of the House . the Leader of the House will be aware of the increase incidence of flood event , as we hear early from the hon . member for South West Bedfordshire ( Andrew Selous ) , which be have a huge impact not only on the life and livelihood of hundred of thousand of people in so many of our constituency across the country , but on business , on infrastructure and on our farmer ' winter crop , which could have a huge impact on food price as we get into the summer and autumn . I urge she to grant a debate on flooding in Government time . that be a concern for many colleague across the House . the hon . Gentleman will know that we have invest unprecedented amount in flood defence — the last tranche be £ 5 . 2 billion — and have protect many community , include 600 , 000 property . he will know that some flooding be plan — land be set aside where we expect flood to take place — but he be right that we be face more extreme weather event . I will certainly ensure that the Secretary of State have hear his concern , which he may also wish to raise directly with the Secretary of State on 1 February . Civil Nuclear Road Map with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I wish to make a statement on civil nuclear power in the UK . today , we have publish three key document that reinforce the UK ' s position as a leader in the civil nuclear renaissance : a civil nuclear road map , a consultation on alternative route to market , and a consultation on a propose policy for site new nuclear power station . that set we on a path towards deploy up to 24 GW of nuclear power in Britain by 2050 as part of a clean , cheap and more secure energy system for the future . it be the big investment in more than 70 year . in the civil nuclear road map we be set out our overarching strategy for the deployment of new nuclear reactor in the UK , and how his Majesty ' s Government intend to work with the nuclear sector to deliver that ambition . the road map establish our vision for a vibrant british nuclear sector , provide detail on the policy that we be pursue to enable delivery , cover area such as siting , regulation , financing , the joint work that we be undertake with Defence nuclear colleague to develop the require nuclear skill and supply chain in the UK , and how we be take care of our nuclear legacy through policy on decommissioning and waste management . announcement in the road map include a commitment to reform the regulation , financing and decommissioning of civil nuclear to make it more agile , thereby streamline regulation while retain the UK ' s world - class standard of safety . for example , the measure that we be announce today could cut by up to 50 % the approval time for reactor that be already approve by overseas regulator . we be also announce our commitment to reduce global dependence on russian fuel and to grow the UK supply chain by invest £ 300 million , alongside industry , in the british production of clean , green high - assay low - enrich uranium fuel for innovative new reactor , thereby offer a commercial alternative to Russia for ourselves and our ally and partner . the road map also set out our long - term ambition for nuclear , provide high - level timeline and key decision point for a wide range of nuclear technology over the next decade . those technology include small modular reactor , advanced modular reactor and gigawatt - scale project , include a new commitment to explore a further gigawatt - scale nuclear project after Sizewell C . advanced nuclear technology , such as smr and amr , present the opportunity to decarbonise across the energy sector , from grid electricity through industrial heat to entirely new industry such as the production of hydrogen and synthetic fuel . last year , we set up great british Nuclear as an arm ' s length body responsible for help to deliver new nuclear project and lead our energy revolution , but we be also keen to harness innovation in the private sector and help developer to bring forward new nuclear project outside of GBN ' s ongoing SMR selection process . we be therefore today also launch our alternative route to market consultation . that consultation , which will run for 12 week , aim to understand where the Government could support the private sector to bring forward advanced nuclear project . finally , in recognition of our enhance nuclear ambition and the exciting potential offer by advanced nuclear technology , we be launch a public consultation on a propose new policy for the siting of new nuclear power station . that consultation mark an important first step in the process for develop a new nuclear national policy statement for England and Wales , and will run for eight week . the result of the consultation will be use to inform the drafting of the national policy statement document , which we intend to publish for further consultation . the propose siting process announce today would , of course , apply only to England and Wales . although our ambition be for a whole british nuclear revolution , the current Scottish Government sadly remain committed to block any planning application for new nuclear in Scotland under their devolved consent regime . however , we continue to invite the Scottish Government to join we and more than 30 other country around the world to allow for reinvestment in , and the renewal of , our nuclear capacity across the whole UK in order to meet our net zero and energy security objective . our intention be to designate the NPS in 2025 — subject , of course , to parliamentary process . for the first time , we intend for the NPS to provide a planning policy framework for smr and amr , as well as the traditional gigawatt - scale power station . to achieve the UK ' s nuclear ambition , the Government believe that additional site will be require for new nuclear project , along with great ongoing flexibility in the site selection process to enable new technology . we be excited to introduce a positive shift in approach in the siting consultation : the new NPS will empower nuclear developer to identify potential site for development , foster developer ’ innovation and , indeed , flexibility . although the exist designate nuclear site may possess many inherent positive attribute that potentially make they a consideration for future development , the change allow for the exploration of diverse new location . by entrust developer with that responsibility , we aim to streamline the process , encourage creative solution and enhance the overall efficiency of nuclear development , ultimately contribute to the growth and sustainability of the industry . we propose that the siting of new nuclear would continue to be constrain by robust criterion that determine where development can occur . developer would be empower to undertake the initial screening of site base on those criterion , with advice from regulator and statutory agency . of course , it be our intention that safety will remain paramount , with the high safety , security and environmental standard oversee by the independent nuclear regulator and environment protection agency . public consultation and community engagement will also remain essential part of the process . this package — this vision , this announcement — represent the big investment in nuclear in the UK for over 70 year , ensure our energy security , keep we on the path to net zero and deliver the job of the future : our nuclear future . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . the energy bill crisis of the past two year have expose the deep vulnerability in Britain ' s energy system and the urgent need to build more home - grow power in this country so that we can cut energy bill and have real energy independence from dictator such as Putin . in that context , we support the Government ' s commitment to new nuclear power . Labour support new nuclear , which must form a critical part of our future energy mix . nuclear power be a long - term project for any country , and I want to give the industry and nuclear worker clear assurance that there be a cross - party consensus for nuclear power in this country . it be the last Labour Government who identify 10 site for new nuclear in 2009 , and in the time since this Government ' s record have be one of continual delay and false dawn . yesterday , I meet people from west Cumbria who have be wait six year for a decision on nuclear since the last plan collapse on this Government ' s watch . the road map publish today be two year later than they promise , and it still leave a number of unanswered question about how the Government intend to turn warm word into practical action , so I shall ask the Minister a number of question . first , I be glad that the Minister have wake up to the urgent fact that we need to generate more cheap , clean electricity in this country . in which year will any of the policy announce today actually cut bill for people ? secondly , it be all well and good talk about commitment to new station in the next Parliament , but what be the timetable for the final investment decision for Sizewell C ? the Government promise to have a final investment decision by the end of this Parliament , so will the Minister give a categorical promise today that that will be do ? time be run out . thirdly , will he update we on the timetable for Hinkley Point C , originally promise to be deliver by 2017 , and when will it start supply power to household ? fourthly , on smr , what be the timetable for conclude the competition ? just yesterday I meet representative try to site smr who be complain of long delay from Government and the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority in get the project move . how will the Minister unblock that and wide SMR development ? fifthly , what step be be take to ensure that the UK retain critical skill in our nuclear sector ? nuclear job be high - skilled , well - pay and unionised job , and Labour support the worker and union in the nuclear industry in call on the Government to ensure that investment in the industry support good job and apprenticeship right through the supply chain . finally , will the Minister address the ongoing concern about the safety and security of our nuclear decommissioning process , give the disturbing revelation about Sellafield ? what step be be take to ensure that every nuclear site be secure ? labour support new nuclear for Britain after 14 year of inaction under the Conservatives . the wide lesson be that this country need a Government go full pelt for clean power . we should be invest as a country in nuclear , offshore wind , onshore wind , solar , hydrogen , carbon capture and storage , and all form of clean power that can help to cut bill and make our country energy independent . that be what we need , and that be what a Labour Government will do . I be so pleased to hear the hon . Lady ' s support for the conservative party ' s policy regard nuclear , give that we be invest in all of the above and more . I do welcome the support of the official Opposition and their recent damascene conversion to the benefit of nuclear power , but we should never forget , in this place and beyond , that any nuclear project in this country and any nuclear power station have be deliver only by a Conservative Government . it be a record of which be very proud . labour be in power for 13 year and deliver nothing . we be very proud today to be publish our civil nuclear road map . as I say , it be important for the industry that there be cross - party consensus and agreement that investment in nuclear be to the benefit of this country , the economy and the environment and , indeed , will provide energy security and wean ourselves and our ally off our reliance on Vladimir Putin for our energy need . the hon . Lady be absolutely right that deliver new nuclear power station will yield result for the british people and deliver clean bill . in Finland , where nuclear power station be now deliver more than 40 % of energy on to the grid , bill have drop by an incredible 70 % . she ask about the final investment decision on Sizewell C ; we remain committed to make that decision by the end of this Parliament . on Hinkley Point C , we be in fact very proud of the progress that be be make . just last month we see the dome be lift on to the top of reactor 1 . I have nothing but admiration for the workforce and everybody involve in deliver that first - of - a - kind project at Hinkley , and we continue to support it . the hon . Lady ask about the next phase of the small modular reactor competition . it will be launch within week , so I ask she to bide her time and keep her patience . we be very excited to have six fantastic technology company bid to deploy in the United Kingdom , and we be move fast than any comparable programme around the world , to ensure that Britain and the british people benefit from investment in small modular reactor and the benefit they can bring to the energy mix and to local economy . the hon . Lady ask about skill . one of the thing that the nuclear industry can bring , and indeed deliver at this point , be high - skilled , high - wage job throughout the country , and indeed in many place where those job be at a premium . it be absolutely right that we look at how we can encourage more people , and make the space available within industry and in our educational institution to get more people into the job of the future in the nuclear industry . that be why I , along with my hon . friend the Minister for Defence Procurement , have launch the nuclear skill task force , chair by Sir Simon Bollom . it will publish its initial finding and recommendation in the very near future . as I say , I welcome the new - find support , optimism and positivity for nuclear demonstrate by the Labour party , and when we as the conservative party go on to win at the next election , I be sure that the hon . Lady will continue to offer that support from the Opposition Benches . I call the Chair of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee . the Committee that I have the privilege of chairing publish a big report on the future of nuclear power last year , call for a comprehensive strategy for new nuclear , so I warmly welcome the Minister ' s statement and the publication today , which respond very comprehensively and substantially to many of the recommendation we make . in particular , I welcome the commitment to new gigawatt - scale nuclear as part of the 24 GW target ; to streamline the regulation , which be extremely important ; to small modular reactor ; and to the security that come from invest in our own domestic source of nuclear fuel . those be very big step forward . may I ask the Minister specifically to say whether the new site approval mechanism will allow these site to be use for smr by the 2050 deadline or target ? I thank my right hon . friend for his question and for all the work he have do to champion nuclear , not only in his capacity as Chair of the Select Committee but in his time as Secretary of State for Business , Energy and Industrial Strategy , when he be in charge of get this ship move . to answer his question directly , yes it will . the new siting strategy will cover the possibility of the deployment of all technology — SMR , AMR and gigawatt - scale reactor . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s support . I call the SNP spokesperson . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . he be absolutely right in one respect : the Scottish Government do not support the development of new nuclear power in Scotland . the reason for that be simple : beside the environmental concern , the economic do not lie . nuclear power be slow to deliver and horrendously expensive , and the policy of recent year under Labour and conservative Governments have be simply to allow private company to privatise the profit while the risk be socialise for taxpayer . we on this side of the House — at least , on the SNP Benches — all know that Scotland ' s comparative advantage lie in hydrogen and renewable , both area in which the Scottish Government ' s ambition appear to considerably outstrip those of the current UK Government . may I ask the Minister two simple question ? first , despite his disagreement with the Scottish Government ' s stance on planning and nuclear , will he and his government respect the devolution settlement as it stand ? secondly , will he give an undertaking , as none of his predecessor over the last half century or more have be able to do , that when the multibillion - pound decommissioning liability become live for any new generation of nuclear power station , they will lie squarely on the private company that have benefit in the precede decade and will not fall on the taxpayer ? the Scottish National party , like almost every nationalist party in the world , have a misplace belief in its own exceptionalism , and nowhere be that more true than on nuclear . at COP28 , we see over 30 country come together to pledge to increase civil nuclear capacity around the world by a third , so clear and obvious be it that nuclear be essential not just in ensure our energy security , benefit local community and drive forward our economy , but in reach our net zero goal and ensure that we have a clean energy baseload in the future . indeed , there be no net zero without nuclear . it pain I , especially as a Scottish Member of Parliament , that the Scottish Government ' s wrong - head position on this remain extant . I would very much welcome a change of direction within the Scottish Government . I urge the Scottish National party to look around the world at the country join with we in this nuclear renaissance and revival , and to think of the huge benefit that could be bring to Scotland , with its proud history in nuclear go back many decade , if it be to join we on this journey . of course we respect the devolution settlement . we be absolutely committed to maintain it . what I urge , though , be a change of direction , a change of approach and a change of position by the Scottish Government , so that the scottish people , the scottish economy and the scottish environment can benefit from future investment in nuclear that will be feel in England and Wales , and indeed in so many other country around the world . I call the Chair of the Environmental Audit Committee . today ' s statement provide welcome clarity about the Government ' s road map for the delivery and revival of new nuclear energy capacity , and I will be write on behalf of my Committee to the Minister shortly to raise some point about the SMR competition that he have touch on today . notwithstanding the grudging support from those on the Opposition Front Bench , what step be my hon . friend take to build the broad consensus behind this essential component of the delivery of net zero , so that the road map do not fall victim to the short - term thinking that bedevil the delivery of a safe and effective renewal of nuclear capacity in the past , notably under the previous Labour Government ? I thank my right hon . friend for his support of this document and for the work that he have do in chair the Committee to drive forward the argument for further investment in nuclear . I know he share my belief that if we be to reach net zero , nuclear will play a large part in the mix of energy solution that we invest in . my right hon . friend be absolutely right that we need to build a broad consensus . I genuinely welcome the support of the official Opposition for new investment in nuclear . as I say , when we look around the world , the pace at which the mood be change and the broad acceptance of nuclear as a key benefit in reach our net zero goal be incredible . it will take a lot of hard work on the part of all of we who believe in the benefit that nuclear can bring economically , to our energy security and , ultimately and most importantly , to the environment , to keep the pressure up . I look forward to his writing to I , and to discuss the issue that he have raise far , and I thank he once again for his broad support for what we be try to deliver . may I welcome the statement ? I be go to commend the Minister on the work that I know he have do , until he unfortunately become petty political — I think he spend a bit too much time in scottish politic . he will be aware that the small modular reactor assessment be already behind the Government ' s own timetable . that be undermine Rolls - Royce , which build small reactor for the Royal Navy and have do for many decade . meanwhile , the formidable american political industrial machine be hoover up customer around the world . can we not learn from the vaccine taskforce how to accelerate process while maintain safety ? will he now get a move on so that we can build british modular nuclear reactor use british worker ? I know the right hon . Gentleman would never stoop to petty politic in this Chamber or anywhere else , but I have to disagree with he . I share his passion for small modular reactor , and I share his belief that Rolls - Royce be a world - lead company that be deliver for this country right now and will continue to do so in future . we be proud of the small modular reactor competition , which we launch in July . we have already complete the first process . we have six world - lead technology compete to get investment from the UK Government for deployment here domestically , of which Rolls - Royce be of course a part . we will be launch the next phase in a matter of week . it be world - lead , and fast than any comparable programme in the world . the right hon . Gentleman say to get a move on , but we have not stop to draw breath since we first launch GBN and the small modular reactor drawdown competition in the summer . however , I welcome his support for what we be do , and I hope that he can encourage more of his colleague to support it . today I be fight back tear of joy and jubilation for this road map , because it be absolutely clear that we have a Minister and a Government who be utterly commit to nuclear — whether that be civil , defence , safe storage , medical isotope or the entire supply chain . may I remind my hon . friend the Minister that the road map clearly refer to the A595 , the road between Barrow and Workington , where the journey begin ? will he give his absolute assurance that he will remember where the journey begin — with the commitment from my community and the community across Furness and west Cumbria — and ensure that that be at the forefront of his decision making on future mission ? my hon . friend — she be a friend — be rightly proud of the contribution that Cumbria have make to our nuclear journey over the last century . the journey begin at Calder Hall and have continue . she be right , and at the forefront of our decision making will be the experience , expertise and learning that have develop in and around her constituency , which will of course be at the forefront of our nuclear renaissance . I congratulate my hon . friend on his statement , which be probably the most significant statement on energy policy for at least a decade . I welcome in particular the intention to streamline planning process and regulation to reduce unnecessary cost and delay . may I ask for an assurance that if there be to be new nuclear development at Bradwell in Essex , it will be of a type that do not affect the marine protect area of the Blackwater estuary , a historic oyster fishery on which many of my constituent depend ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and for his support at this exciting moment . of course , many site will be look at for future nuclear development , and in every case they will have to adhere to the stringent , strong and gold - plate environmental standard that we expect of nuclear licensed site across the United Kingdom . I do apologise for have call two member in a row from the same side . I shall immediately correct myself by call two from the Opposition side . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker — I take no offence at all ; it be fully understand . the good route to affordable energy security be renewable . nuclear power be blight by delay and rocket cost , and the Government be never honest about its much high cost compare with renewable . on the Government ' s watch , renewable have face long delay and the cost for offshore wind development have increase by 40 % . will a renewables road map soon follow the statement to address those challenge and ensure that the Government do not lose their competitive advantage in offshore wind development ? I lose track of where the Liberal Democrats sit on nuclear . I know that their current leader be against it , then he be for it , and then against it again . right now , I be not quite sure . I do take issue with the hon . Lady ' s insinuation that we be not lead the world in renewable . we have the first , second , third , fourth and fifth — and , soon , the sixth — large offshore wind farm in the world generating power right now for Great Britain . we be invest at pace in solar and in a host of new and emerge technology because , unlike some party , we believe that we should not invest all our time and money in one technology . we need a broad range of technology if we be ever to meet our legally bind net zero commitment . I look forward to the day when the liberal Democrats can hold a policy for more than five minute and come to the House and actually support we on the journey to our net zero future . I welcome the Minister ' s statement . however , what lesson will be learn from previous and current project on value for money ? the National Audit Office be scathing about some of the decision that have be take on those project . what more can be do to support manufacturing in this area right across the UK ? build up the UK ' s supply chain be essential . one of the huge benefit that will be accrue through this big - in - 70 - year investment in new nuclear be the ability to build up our manufacture base in the United Kingdom , create those high - wage , high - skilled job that we want to see in more community around the entire country . of course , lesson will be learn from previous project . we be always look at value for money for the british taxpayer , which be why , for example , we be use the regulated asset base model for fund Sizewell C . I warmly welcome my hon . friend ' s announcement today , because when the advanced gas - cool reactor be decommission by 2030 , we will have a dip in nuclear production . the Public Accounts Committee , of which I have the honour to be deputy chair , have do a lot of work on this . we recently have a follow - up visit to Sellafield . I agree with my hon . friend that they do fantastic work there , but it be our large single project , with a minimum cost of £ 200 billion over the next 100 year . will he undertake to renew our effort to get a well handle on the decommissioning cost , so that they can be properly allocate and we can have a true estimate of what nuclear generation cost ? I agree with my hon . friend on the amazing work be conduct at Sellafield in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Copeland ( Trudy Harrison ) . the lesson be learn through the decommissioning process at Sellafield will yield benefit . we be lead the way across the world on the decommissioning of site and be very happy to be advise other country on their decommissioning effort . we need to ensure that any project run by the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority be prove to be value for money , and that we learn from the lesson of the past . my party ' s policy be to support the development of the present nuclear site in Wales , one of which be Trawsfynydd in my constituency . the Welsh Government have fund Cwmni Egino to develop Trawsfynydd , and £ 20 million be allocate only last autumn for that purpose by the north Wales growth deal to enable critical development and planning , prior to the final investment decision to be make anon . give the strategic development and investment in Wales , can the Minister confirm that the entirely publicly own Trawsfynydd , with its potential 550 job , remain a possible location for an SMR in the near future ? will he please visit Trawsfynydd ? I would be delighted to visit the right hon . Lady ' s constituency . Trawsfynydd have exciting potential as a site for an SMR , and for other nuclear licensed activity . it and many other be potential site for the deployment of these new technology in the year ahead . as co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on nuclear energy , I warmly welcome today ' s publication of the long - await civil nuclear road map , in particular the exploration of alternative route to market for smr and amr outside the great british Nuclear scheme . on the delivery of large - scale project , I be curious to know why the road map state on page 20 that the Government will need to wait for the Sizewell C final investment decision before they can set out timeline and process for a new large - scale project in the UK . that formal work and engagement in the Minister ' s team need not wait on the work of another team over which he do not have control or oversight . in the spirit of speed up delivery , might he begin this work now in readiness for maximise the time we have leave before 2050 to get this do ? the hon . Lady can be assure that work be already begin on identify future site for large - scale gigawatt power station . we be commit to announce more in due course . may I add my intense excitement for this announcement and , in particular , for the inclusion of advanced modular reactor in the road map ? finally we have a way forward for they . my hon . friend know how important it be to I to get an AMR in Hartlepool . he be with I on his first ever visit to Hartlepool on the day that we announce a two - year extension for our reactor , which take we to 2026 . do this announcement mean what I think it do — the guarantee of a future for nuclear at Hartlepool ? be it only a matter of time before he come back to announce not only what we will build there , but who will build it and when ? I remember that visit distinctly — my first as the nuclear Minister . I thank the hon . Lady and everyone who host nuclear power station in their constituency for champion that industry , the sector and the workforce . the workforce and the sector have be widely castigate in the popular mindset over many year , but now be reap the reward of continue support from people such as my hon . friend and other in this House . I be delighted that Hartlepool get the extension . the road map that we set out today will deliver a clear identification of what can be deliver , where and how . that mean a bright future for nuclear in Hartlepool . Nova Innovation in my constituency recently announce the wonderful news that it have win € 20 million of investment from the EU to lead a pan - european consortium to create the seastar tidal energy farm in Orkney , the large tidal energy site in the world . why do the UK Government continue to largely ignore this safe , low cost , reliable form of energy ? as Greenpeace point out , the energy industry itself know that the economic case for slow , expensive nuclear just do not add up . tidal receive money for the very first time through the last auction round in the contract for difference process . this government be invest in tidal technology , wind , solar , hydrogen , carbon capture and storage , continued exploration for oil and gas — which the hon . Lady ' s party oppose — and nuclear . of course , it be fantastic news for her constituent and the business around Scotland that be win contract to invest in renewable . what , to their shame , Scottish National party representative in this place never mention be the hundred of thousand of job in Scotland that depend on the nuclear industry — manufacturing , construction , education and the fantastic work go on right now in Torness , the only generate power station in Scotland currently deliver power to 1 million home . perhaps the Scottish National party will come to the Chamber and explain how , when that power station close down — as sadly and inevitably one day it will — they will replace the power generate for scottish home under their plan to completely ignore this safe , secure and clean option for secure future energy . I welcome the civil nuclear road map , in particular the recognition that we will need additional nuclear site to those in the exist policy framework . do the Minister agree that there be one big difference between a gigawatt reactor and an SMR — gigawatt reactor be very big , and smr be comparatively quite small ? therefore , do he believe that we need to consider small site such as Dungeness in my constituency , which could be very suitable for such technology as smr ? again , I welcome my hon . friend ' s support and I thank he for host I on a visit to Dungeness — the fish and chip be exquisite . I agree that we will look at every site and possible site and judge they on the basis of what type of technology could be build there . that will benefit his community , community around the country and the United Kingdom more widely . I thank the Minister for his statement . it be great that the Government have outline plan for the big expansion of nuclear power in 70 year to reduce energy bill , which so many of our constituent struggle with on a daily basis . Minister , I ask you this question because you admit that Northern Ireland — order . the hon . Gentleman know that he should not refer directly to the Minister . let we have another go . apology , Madam Deputy Speaker . what provision do the UK civil nuclear plan include to involve Northern Ireland ? how will it ensure that the region ' s perspective and concern be adequately take into account in the development and implementation of nuclear politic and policy , so that we can create job and strengthen our economy at the same time as other area in the United Kingdom ? as ever , the hon . Gentleman champion his constituent and the people and economy of Northern Ireland . it be essential to I that every part of our United Kingdom benefit from this once - in - a - generation investment into new nuclear . I would be delighted to meet he to discuss how Northern Ireland and his constituent in Strangford could benefit from investment in skill and the supply chain . deployment of nuclear capability be a devolved competency , but I would be happy to meet he to see what his constituent can get from this historic announcement . from Anglesey , all the way up the coast to the tip of Cumbria , the north - west nuclear arc will be , as some member have already suggest , dance a little jig today . springfield in Lancashire be the geographic and , I would argue , fuel production heart of that north - west nuclear arc . I welcome this announcement to secure the future £ 300 million investment to ensure that Vladimir Putin do not have his hand on the tap of advanced nuclear fuel . that be so important for the hundred , if not thousand of people who live in South Ribble and work in the adjacent Springfields . this investment help Lancashire support the UK domestic nuclear industry , but can the Minister tell I if there be opportunity for export Lancashire nous , skill , capability and fuel to the world ? absolutely . Lancashire , like Cumbria , be at the heart of the vision we be announce today . the £ 300 million investment in new nuclear fuel mean that the United Kingdom will remain among a handful of nation commit and able to work across the entire fuel supply chain . the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero be visit Springfields as I speak , demonstrate our commitment to that plant and its people . move forward , we will be central to our ally and partner around the world be able to move away from and wean themselves off rely on hostile foreign actor like Vladimir Putin for their energy baseload . Lancashire will be key to do that . Nuclear be hugely important for our energy security , so I welcome today ' s statement . miss from my atomic Friend ' s extensive list of the benefit of nuclear be how much kind nuclear be on land use , with a small modular reactor need just two football pitch to produce enough power for around 1 million home , compare to 2 , 000 acre of solar that will power only 50 , 000 home . do the Minister agree that nuclear be so much kind and do not involve destroy vast swathe of the british countryside and impact our food security ? my hon . friend be absolutely right about the footprint and the comparable impact on land of nuclear compare to other technology , but it be very important that we have a wide range of energy technology move forward . we will benefit from investment in wind , solar , hydrogen , CCUS and the nuclear we be announce today , but I welcome his support for what we be announce . I welcome the statement and the publication of the three document . with Sizewell C , as well as offshore wind and hydrogen , East Anglia , Suffolk and Lowestoft will play a vital strategic role in enhance our energy security , keep bill low and drive forward the transition to net zero . to enable the local area to play this lead role to the maximum advantage of local people and local business , do my hon . friend recognise the vital importance of investment in skill at East Coast College and investment in infrastructure , such as in the port of Lowestoft ? absolutely . my hon . friend be spot on . I be very happy to visit East Anglia last year and see for myself the investment Sizewell C be make in the local community and in local college , support young people who want to get into the new high - skilled job that will be produce through the development of project such as Sizewell C . I be very happy to announce that I will be visit East Anglia again on Monday to see the progress that have be make at Sizewell C . he be absolutely right that the benefit that accrue locally through investment in nuclear , at large scale and at small modular scale , be unprecedented . that be one of the thing that I hope come out of today : yes we be talk about our energy security and yes we be talk about reach net zero , but the impact locally to community through investment in new nuclear be unprecedented . I be very excited to see what it bring in the year ahead . I welcome the Minister ' s statement . clearly , nuclear will have a major part to play in energy generation in coming year . a number of company have already look at site in my northern Lincolnshire constituency , which he will know be a major centre for the renewable energy sector . he speak of encourage developer to identify potential site . do he agree with I that it be also important that local authority play a part in encourage this type of development ? I can assure he that North Lincolnshire Council and North East Lincolnshire Council will welcome such development . I completely agree . local authority have a key role in drive forward interest and investment in small modular reactor and advanced modular reactor , and indeed in any new technology that come through as the result of today ' s announcement and the investment we be make in nuclear . I would be delighted to visit his constituency and see the potential of possible site for small modular reactor deployment in the area he represent , because he be absolutely right . the potential for these technology be huge not just , as I have say , for our energy security move forward , but for the benefit they bring to community up and down the length and breadth of the United Kingdom . Backbench Business SEND Provision and Funding [ relevant document : e - petition 634116 , increase funding for special educational need and disability ( SEND ) education ; e - petition 619720 , fund more specialist school place for child with special educational need ; e - petition 607849 , make SEND train mandatory for all teaching staff ; e - petition 591092 , Require School senco to be fully qualified for the role ; e - petition 587365 , require all school staff receive training on SEN child ; and e - petition 584129 , More funding for SEN child to Access Appropriate School Provisions . ] I would just like to explain to colleague how we intend to proceed this afternoon . we have two very well - subscribe debate and I will try to ensure that all back Benchers have a fairly equal opportunity across the afternoon . the guidance be that the open speech be to be between 10 and 15 minute . I advise that , in order to be fair to everybody , we will start off with the guidance that six minute will allow everybody an equal opportunity from the Back Benches . if people can not stick to that , I will have to put on a time limit , but I think that will ensure that everybody get a good chance to contribute . I beg to move , that this House call for a review of funding for SEND provision . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I will try my absolute good to stay inside your guidance . we have 24 applicant to speak in the debate , which I think be a record , so forgive I if I do not take intervention . nearly 100 , 000 people sign petition relate to these subject and I be pleased to say that they will have their voice hear in the Chamber today . the debate about how good to cater for those with special educational need and disability be often dominate by hard number : money , place , headcount and so on . that be obviously a vital part of the discussion , but the real heart of the matter be the human impact , and the child and family behind the figure . my part of the world , the East Riding , have the low per capita funding , which be about a third of the highest - fund area . I declare an interest , or more than an interest : a prejudice . I have a grandchild who suffer from something call SYNGAP - 1 , a genetic disease that make her non - verbal and give her daily fit and seizure , so she have a very high intensity of requirement . in the two year of covid , she miss 40 day of teaching , over and above lockdown requirement , because of a lack of resource . that be eight week of schooling lose , cause enormous distress to a child who need continuity and stability . we can see immediately how that have an effect . Chloe have complex need and meet those need be a daily challenge for her parent and teacher . for she to miss so much school be simply awful and put huge pressure on Chloe herself and on the rest of her family . as important as Chloe be to I , the point be that her case be not unusual . many of her classmate have and continue to have the same experience , as do thousand upon thousand of child across the country . parent , teacher , teaching assistant , mental health worker , carer and a host of other do incredible work to ensure that child get as much help as possible , but they be struggle to provide adequately for everyone . at the moment , the resource be simply not there . a bit of background here be important . education , health and care plan — ehcp , as they be know — be introduce in 2014 . this be a well - intentione reform that seek to provide holistic support for young people in need . but what the reform fail to do be provide resilience in the system to deal with future change to demand for service . in recent year , there have be a huge increase in that demand : population growth , well detection of condition such as autism , and long life expectancy because of medical progress all put pressure on the system . as a result , the total number of ehcp and statement of special educational need have more than double since 2015 . that be a rise of more than a quarter of a million case , with large increase in every age group , but the funding from central Government simply have not keep pace . part of the answer be to update the funding formula . the exist allocation of fund be base on an out - of - date assessment of each area ' s special educational need . of course , some level of differentiation of funding make sense , as not every area have the same need . for example , rurality have a huge impact , as staff , campaigner and family in my area know only too well . those national pressure lie behind the call by the f40 group , represent local authority with some of the bad rate of SEND funding , for £ 4 . 6 billion in additional annual funding from central Government . the figure be base on that huge growth in the number of ehcp local authority have to support , as well as significant inflationary pressure . each EHCP , tailor to the specific need of a child require additional support , cost the local authority cash , so the more ehcp be need , the more local authority have to cough up and the great the pressure on their already tight finance . we should remember that in the past two year , six local authority have already declare themselves effectively bankrupt . the impact of these pressure on SEND provision be clear for all to see . in 2022 , less than half of ehcp be issue within 20 week of application . in other word , one in two child wait more than five month . give that 13 % of child have special educational need , that be a huge number of kid wait for help , and many have to wait a lot long to get the support that they need . in some case child have to be send to school far away owe to a lack of local place , and family struggle , over and above their normal need , to get appropriate support . parent and carer have supply I with many illustrative example . one , Jennifer , say that " we have be on a waiting list for 22 month for my son to see a Speech and Language Therapist . . . the lack of SEN school need address as a matter of urgency " as child be be " let down and be suffer " . another , Esther , say : " my son hasn ' t have his EHCP meet in four year in an SEN school . . . he have not have speech therapy for over three year , nor have he have his physio , occupational therapy , sensory or educational need meet . . . there be urgent need for more funding so that SEN school can have appropriate class size with therapist and enough qualified and skilled support staff . " accord to one special need specialist teacher , louise : " service such as speech and language therapy have be reduce dramatically . in my Autism Spectrum Condition resource Provision class , we use to have three hour per week and now have three hour per half term . " another teacher , Catherine , say : " we have large number of child who require specialist support to allow they to thrive and stay safe " . owe to a lack of resource , however , other child be " receive minimal support as we be firefighte , just to keep the child … safe . " the financial impact of all this be , of course , enormous . the cumulative deficit in local authority high need budget be estimate to be £ 2 . 3 billion , and be expect to reach £ 3 . 6 billion by March 2025 . there be more than 80 local authority with large high need deficit . currently those deficit be be keep off local authority balance sheet by a statutory override , but the override be time - limited and will expire in 2026 if it be not extend . if and when it do expire , many council will be bankrupt overnight , with huge implication not just for education but for all local service . that be why the f40 group consider the expiry to be a sword of Damocles hang over the entire sector . fifty - five local authority have have to sign up to the Government ' s deliver Better Value in SEND programme and 34 have have to sign up to the Safety Valve programme — both set up to meet the challenge of deal with the rise demand and cost — which mean that nearly 90 authority have already have to go to the Government for help . of course , it be also crucial that we be able to plan for future challenge so that we can meet they when they arise , rather than constantly firefighte with limited resource . to that end , there need to be a substantial increase in capital funding to allow local authority to invest in SEND project . I say to the Minister that the recent announcement of £ 2 . 6 billion for that purpose be welcome , but more be need . without the start - up cash , we will simply find ourselves in another crisis in five year ' time . the number may sound big , and we all know that these be straiten time for the economy after covid , but in reality , fail to invest be a false economy . we might save some money in the short term , but the long - term cost , both to the budget and to the child concern , be huge . let we take an example . a child suffer from poor physical and mental health , suicidal ideation and poor school attendance spend a great deal of time refuse to engage at all . special need staff , have set out an action plan , give he one - to - one mentoring support , thrice - weekly pastoral session , regular counselling and organise work experience . as a result his school attendance improve , he begin to develop friendship with peer , and he be able to manage a full school timetable . his life be transform . the reverse scenario , however , happen all too often . as Mo , a speech and language therapist , put it : " it be widely acknowledge that early intervention be key . however , due to a lack of funding , staffing level and subsequent long waiting list , we be unable to provide " that intervention . a child might , say , have autism and anxiety , and might be struggle to get into school and struggle to cope with the day ' s work . without help , those thing get bad . the child come to school less , they find it hard and hard to carry out basic task , their friendship suffer , and it be then more difficult for special need staff to get through to they . ultimately , they will need a much great — and more expensive — effort to reintegrate they into schooling , and will require much more long - term care . intervene early be transformative , and that require resource to make it possible to act before problem spiral out of control . a further problem be the severe workforce difficulty that SEND employer face . specialist teaching assistant , for example , now cost employer about £ 24 , 000 each , up from about £ 16 , 000 10 year ago . however , the place funding have be not change from £ 10 , 000 per child , so we be not match that extra demand . many SEND worker would be well remunerate in less skilled job , and in a challenging economic climate , they may be force to vote with their foot . one therapist , Hayley , say that she have see " a huge decline in skill and knowledge of the workforce . " that will not come as a surprise to anyone in the sector . of course minister say they value the work that SEND staff do , but it must be back up by funding . otherwise the workforce will continue to dwindle , with dire consequence for those who rely on their support . there be many other aspect that I should like to mention , but you want I to be sharp , Madam Deputy Speaker , so I will not deal with most of they . these challenge extend to further education . young people age 16 to 25 make up 27 % of those with ehcp , and I know that some of my colleague will want to touch on that . moreover , as I have say , this be not simply a matter of funding . just this week the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , my hon . friend the Member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Mike Freer ) , recognise the need for " systemic reform " because family be wait between nine and 13 month for a hearing after appeal against EHCP decision . I be sure that some of my colleague will go far into these issue in their speech , and will mention their own experience of help family in their constituency . my right hon . friend and neighbour the Member for East Yorkshire ( Sir Greg Knight ) can not be here this afternoon because of a constituency engagement , but I know that he agree with all the point I have make . Front Benchers who can not contribute to the debate also have their concern . I know that my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Banbury ( Victoria Prentis ) have , like many other , be contact by numerous constituent about this subject , and have take their worry on board . the same be true of other Ministers who do not particularly want I to mention they ; I can not think why ! the bottom line be this . the support that a society provide for its most vulnerable be a measure of its compassion , and , to my mind , a measure of its civilisation . that be the key . I be sure that the Government share those principle , but now we must find a way to deliver the change that be need to make they a reality . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) , who do a superb job of set out the strategic argument for more funding for those with special educational need . I hope that we will get some hint from Ministers that the Chancellor of the Exchequer have hear the call from parent across the country , and that more revenue funding and , crucially , more capital funding will be make available . I want to raise a series of parochial issue that be nevertheless relevant to the more strategic argument advance by the right hon . Gentleman . let I say at the outset that I entirely recognise from my own casework the story of parent and their difficulty in obtain support for their child with special educational need . I be sure that be the experience of everyone in this House . at the outset , I acknowledge the skill and commitment of those who work with and teach child with special educational need , both in my constituency and across the country . teacher be remarkable at the good of time but , like other school staff , they be not value enough . they be fundamental to the future of our country and to the future of the vulnerable young people we be talk about today . I be fortunate that Harrow be bless with good special school . Alexandra School in south Harrow , in my constituency , be particularly good , but Shaftesbury High School , Kingsley High School and Woodlands School be also very effective . I commend their staff to the House . I also acknowledge the impressive performance of special educational need co - ordinator and other staff who support young people in Harrow ' s mainstream school setting . there be a clear need for a new 300 - place special school in Harrow . the four special school I mention face serious financial difficulty , and more investment be need for the young people in Harrow ' s mainstream school to get the support they need . Harrow have see a 55 % increase in the number of young people with ehcp over the last five year , and Harrow Council estimate that the figure be likely to increase by about 100 a year . the four special school in Harrow have just under 500 place between they , but 700 young people a year from my community be be place in special school . the council already rely on find placement for vulnerable child with special educational need in out - of - borough school and private special school that be far away from their family setting . as I understand it , Harrow already have a much great reliance on private SEN school than the national average . there be very little space to expand the borough ' s four special school , and Harrow be unfortunately surround by neighbour borough that be also see very significant increase in the number of young people with significant special educational need . pressure be also rise fast on the private and independent school cater for those with special educational need on which Harrow might draw . that mean that a much high proportion of Harrow ' s high need budget be be spend on significantly more expensive placement than would be spend if an additional special school be build in the borough . as I understand it , my council be now worried that there will be far significant fee increase for those school , place even great pressure on the exist special need budget . the Department for Education have turn down Harrow ' s application for a special school three time , even though the Department accept that it be an effective bid and worthy of funding , have funding be available — hence the urgent need for more capital funding . finally , I underline the point that special school in Harrow , and I suspect across the country , be already face serious financial problem . I understand that the National Network of Specialist Provision have reveal that 80 % of special school respond to its survey report a budget deficit in year one of their financial cycle , rise to 90 % in year two . the average size of that deficit be £ 145 , 000 in year one , which have huge implication for school budget . that need to be urgently address in the forthcoming Budget . I call the Chair of the Education Committee . it be a great pleasure to speak in this hugely important debate . I be very grateful to the Backbench Business Committee for provide time , and to the Petitions Committee for organise and manage many of the important petition to which it relate , some of which I hope to address . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) on champion this vital campaign . have work alongside he on one or two challenging issue over the year , I now have the pleasure of do so again . I support his motion for three key reason . as we have hear , member across the House have huge case load relate to special educational need . as Chairman of the Education Committee , and as a long - stand and commit supporter of f40 and its campaign for fair funding , I think that get the right support to child with special educational need and disability be a vital challenge , and we have to be frank that it be a challenge with which successive government have struggle . the Committee praise the aim of the 2014 reform , but it conclude in 2019 that their implementation have not be effective and that funding be " wholly inadequate " . it be to the Government ' s great credit that high need funding have since increase substantially , more than double since 2015 and increase by 60 % since the start of this Parliament . there have be a real focus on provide more specialist place but , while it be undoubtedly true that this Government have prioritise the need of SEN child in spending review , it be also true that the real and substantial increase have not be enough to meet demand . the vast majority of local authority be face high need deficit . Worcestershire be by no mean among the bad , but it have tell I that it expect its deficit to rise from £ 34 . 5 million at the end of March 2024 to £ 44 million next year . not only be specialist and mainstream setting in every constituency struggle to meet the demand of the parent and family that they do accommodate but , as my right hon . Friend make clear in his granddaughter ' s case , too many child be not in those setting when they ought to be . the Education Committee have hear that non - elective home education be too prevalent in this space . it be therefore right that we use this debate to press for more resource for what be , legally and morally , a meeting of basic need and the fundamental right to education . I pay tribute , as other have , to the incredible work happen in every single school in my constituency to support child with special educational need and disability . I say every single school , because it be clear that SEN child and child with ehcp be spread across the entire school estate — mainstream as well as specialist . I hear from teacher and leader in mainstream primary school , early year setting , secondary , sixth form and college , and , almost without exception , they speak about observe rise level of need and complexity of need . that be even more acute in specialist setting , which some year ago be deal with a few highly complex case of child with multiple and severe condition , alongside large number of child with a single diagnosis . today , an increase proportion of their intake be take up by those with multiple and severe condition , and both Regency High School and Fort Royal Community Primary School in my constituency have describe the pressure that create . we should all be support the incredible parent and carer who support SEN child , while recognise , as the Government ' s Green Paper and White Paper have , that the current system have be a source of frustration and confrontation for they . we should be support the aspiration of the Green Paper and the White Paper to deliver the right support in the right place at the right time , but to do so will require the scale of resource and investment in training , infrastructure and need - base funding for which this debate be call . there be brilliant people provide support to SEND child across the country , but the rise tide of demand for specialist support need to be acknowledge from the start . that be why the case for more funding , as well as fairer funding , be really important . ahead of this debate , f40 prepare a detailed and instructive briefing set out that the area that have among the low overall school funding also have among the low extra funding for high need . for the record , Worcestershire have the 30th low overall funding and the 32nd low high need funding . that position have improve since 2010 , but it still put our school pupil , and particularly our special need pupil , at a huge disadvantage compare with those with exactly the same need in well fund area . I know that the Department for Education draft legislation to take the next step in deliver on our manifesto promise of a fairer funding formula by make dedicated school grant payment directly to school , rather than through local authority , but that the legislation fall victim to the demise of the late Schools Bill . I ask the Minister for an update on when the Department plan to take that crucial next step . today , f40 be call not for reallocation but for grow the size of the pie , and for do so with urgency . that call have be back by the National Education Union , the Association of School and College Leaders , the National Association of Head Teachers , the Early Years Alliance and the National Governance Association , which all agree that the high need block require an extra £ 4 . 6 billion a year just to prevent the current crisis in high need from get bad . that have be estimate through the growth in the number of ehcp since 2015 . the substantial revenue funding ask in today ' s motion be only part of the solution . we also need to reduce lengthy journey , which have place huge strain on home - to - school transport budget but do nothing for the welfare of child . my local authority , like many other , be see huge increase in its home - to - school transport budget . that be contribute to another grow deficit , put more pressure on local family and other service . although I appreciate that the Department for Education be not the funder for those budget , joint work with the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities to ensure that they be properly fund and effectively use be vital . we need to ensure that the worthy aspiration set out in the last spending review settlement — the £ 2 . 6 billion to provide new place — be not just deal with as a one - off ; it need to be continue in future spending review . with that in mind , I be very grateful for the investment that have go into a new all - through specialist autism school in the neighbouring constituency of my hon . friend the Member for West Worcestershire ( Harriett Baldwin ) . however , I know that my primary special school , Fort Royal , and my secondary special school , Regency , be desperately in need of expansion . we need to see that capital continue to come and we desperately need a new specialist assessment centre for the early year in Worcester . spend to save in this area be very important , and the Government have rightly set out to halve the disability employment gap . my Committee ' s inquiry on career education highlight how SEN child could benefit from more support in advice and guidance on their career . I very much agree with what my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden say about the importance of speech and language therapy and investment in that area . I support the call for SEND in the specialist campaign last year , and I be glad that the Government have respond positively to a number of those , but we also need to look at auditory verbal therapy , teacher of the deaf , and the number of child psychologist and paediatrician in our health and care team . some area that go beyond the education budget need to be look at in this respect . I briefly wish to touch on some of the petition in support of this motion that relate to training for SEN . they be very important , and I welcome the fact that the Government have make some move to include more SEN content in the initial teacher training curriculum . I urge they also to look at the early career framework in that respect , and that echo some of the call that my Select Committee have make . petition 591092 call for great qualification for senco and for we to set a high bar for their expertise and training . my Committee have welcome the Government ' s commitment to national professional qualification for senco and hear some positive information on the number of people take the level 3 qualification . the Under - Secretary of State for Education , my hon . friend the Member for Wantage ( David Johnston ) , who be on the Front Bench today , write to we in October to say : " we have increase funding for an additional 2 , 000 senco to be train , take the total up to 7 , 000 … the project be on track to train a minimum of 3 , 000 senco by August 2024 . " can he confirm that that trajectory be be maintain ? this be a hugely challenging and important area . it would not only ease a large and grow financial burden affect every local authority up and down the country , but particularly benefit child with SEND and their family if the aspiration set out in this motion could be deliver . I therefore commend it to the whole House . rise — I thank the two open speaker for be nearly within time . I remind member that my guidance be that they should speak for six minute . I call Ian Lavery . we can be say to be a decent and humane society only if we have do our utmost to provide help and support for the most vulnerable child in our community . we should be able to proclaim not only that we provide for reasonable level of material wellbee for such child , but that we be also allow they access to the education they need to better their life . on both count , this Government have fail , but one of their most glaring failure be the failure to provide the necessary funding for the educational requirement of child with special educational need and disability . be my hon . friend as concerned as I be about the regional inequality in respect of both the prevalence of ehcp and the inadequate resourcing that reflect this particular need ? I thank my hon . friend for that very clear intervention , and I will deal with that point later in my contribution . as a nation , we generally fail to make education provision the priority that it deserve to be . we can develop a modern and diverse economy only if we have people with the necessary skill and knowledge that such an economy require . most importantly , our working - class child will continue to be hold back if we do not prioritise the proper funding of our school and further education college . shamefully , the UK spend only 4 . 2 % of our national income on education , compare with the average of 5 % spend by OECD member . when one consider the financial resource provide for the educational need for pupil with SEND , one see that the underfunding be even more pronounced . accord to the f40 organisation , which represent the 40 local authority with the low amount of education funding , an additional £ 4 . 6 billion for baseline funding be require to make up that shortfall . without this additional spending , child with SEND will not find the place they deserve in either mainstream or specialist school . yet at a time when more SEND funding be so desperately need , the funding be actually decrease . in September 2023 , my local authority , Northumberland County Council , report that the number of ehcp in Northumberland be increase by 10 % per year . increase need should , of course , be meet by increase funding , but central Government have increase the element for SEND funding within their grant to the council by only 8 . 84 % . indeed , over the past four year there have be growth of 72 % in the number of ehcp , while fund from the DfE have increase by only 42 % — it be unbelievable . in 2023 - 24 , for the first time , the Northumberland school high need block will overspend . expectation for April 2025 be even bad , and there will be a minus 12 % deficit at the minimum . on a positive note , there be more learner with SEND have their need well meet in Northumberland school than ever before . that be testament to the fantastic work of the school and local authority staff , who be find way to continue amid the chaos , but they be be stretch to the limit . I want to pay tribute to the staff , pupil and parent at the Dales School , Cleaswell Hill School , Collingwood School and Castle School , among other in my constituency , which continue to do a fantastic job . shockingly , however , the amount per SEND child per year allocate by the Government be £ 10 , 000 — an amount that have be freeze for 11 year . cost pressure on all school have increase greatly , yet the amount per child with SEND have remain frozen for more than a decade — that be astonishing . many child with SEND can only attend school that have the physical environment that be appropriate for they . that require ensure that their school have , at all time , the adjustment in layout and mean of access that these child must have . some student with SEND also need specialist electronic education equipment and it provision . those need can be meet only with adequate capital spending . last summer , the Government announce £ 2 . 6 billion of increase capital funding for the support of specialist provision , yet that have to be assess within the context of the 80 % cut in devolve school capital funding that be make in 2011 - 12 , at the time of the Tory and liberal Democrat coalition Government , which of course have lead to the current school repair bill of £ 11 billion . this increase also do not reflect the recent inflation in construction cost and it be grossly inadequate . it also have to be remember that when local authority be unable to provide their own place for child with SEND , they often have to pay for expensive private school to take they , put further strain on their budget . student age 16 to 25 with SEND need access to further education in order to enrol in the course they want and to maximise their full potential , both academically and in their future employment prospect . there be specialist further education college for some student with SEND , which be more costly for local authority and do not have adequate place to meet demand . those FE college may be good for some , but many would benefit from enrol in mainstream further education . there be wide social issue at stake . parent who can not find specialist place for their child with SEND be often force to care for their child at home . as recently report by the BBC , that can take its toll on such family , in term of both finance and mental health . the parent can find themselves isolate , stress and depressed . moreover , they be unable to work and , in many case , be force to rely on benefit . instead of concentrate on help family by increase funding so that child can attend school that meet their need , the Prime Minister this weekend seem to be interested only in deprive the sick and disabled of their benefit . in conclusion , we have to address the lack of fair funding for SEND school . there can not be any further cut or delay . it may be helpful if I actually put the clock on , or else other member wish to speak will have their time cut down . I be sure the clock will be very helpful , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Wansbeck ( Ian Lavery ) , and I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) for secure this important debate . I will start with something that be unusual in this place : a mea culpa . I serve on the Bill Committee for what become the Children and Families Act 2014 . we debate education , health and care plan at length and how we aspire to their make a real difference . we think they would make a difference by bring together education , health and social care funding , enable the child we be speak about to have the opportunity to thrive and achieve everything that we know they can and need to achieve . sadly , I remember the word " fight " recur again and again in that debate . parent be tired of fight for the right school place , for a statement , which would later become an EHCP , or for the right transport to get their child to the education set they need . we think that Act would see an end to the fighting , but it simply have not , because that have again be the recur word that parent from my constituency have use in email to I when I tell they that I plan to speak in this debate . they be still tired , still fight and still see child make no progress in a range of setting across our constituency , whether they be specialist or mainstream provision , as the Chair of the Education Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) , say . the sad truth be that those parent be wear out . to reinforce that point , a lady call Jill Mothersdale in Sedgefield come to I and say exactly that . they be so tired of try to fight the system and get result . it be not anywhere , but everywhere , and I endorse the comment make by my right hon . friend . my hon . friend be right that it be everywhere . a mother contact I about her two daughter , one of whom she say have make no progress in her school setting for year and be be allow to sit at the back of the classroom , make no contribution . she will not pass her gcse and , more than likely , will never move into employment . it be about transition : child have to be give the opportunity to achieve the maximum they can , so that they will go on to perform useful role in society and in work , and so that the child of today be not the problem of the Department for Work and Pensions tomorrow or , bad , the problem of the Ministry of Justice . that be the stark reality . as my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden say , we need change . I do not want my contribution to be entirely negative , although I fear I may get a bit pokey and political at some point . I want to talk about a brilliant school in my constituency : St Edward ' s School in Melchet Park , a specialist school for boy with emotional and mental health challenge , with particular social need . it be a private school the sole customer of which be local education authority . any increase in the fee of that school will be an increase for local authority and the hard - press taxpayer . St Edward ' s School do a brilliant job . the year before last , I visit the school on International Women ' s Day , and a 12 - year - old boy ask I what I be do to celebrate the day . I , in my role , have forget it be International Women ' s Day , which be absolutely shameful , but he have not . I plant a tree at the school with a young man call Jacob , who make I properly laugh , despite all the challenge he face , because he be in a setting that be safe , secure and appropriate for his emotional and behavioural need . my hon . friend the Chair of the Select Committee be right to refer to transport , because that school transport child in every single morning and out every afternoon , over massive distance . they come from across the whole of Hampshire . some of the kid be sit in taxi for well over an hour at both end of the day . the school wish to extend the residential offering , so that the child can have the same stability and security in the extended day as they get in their school hour . it be particularly important for child with social and emotional need to have consistency and certainty about how their day will pan out . it might be awkward for those of a different political persuasion to recognise that a charitable part of the private sector be produce the good for young people and make sure that those boy be get the security they need , but we have to face up to that . I will finish on a point about special educational need that be often overlook , and a challenge that we all face . girl on the autistic spectrum be often much well than their male counterpart at mirror the behaviour of their classmate and mask their condition . as a result , they be less likely to get the ehcp that they desperately need . we have to make sure that we do not overlook that , and recognise that there can be difference across the sex in the way condition present . we have to make sure that diagnosis be easy to get for girl , who in too many instance will be stick in mainstream setting because their EHCP have not be grant because they have be much well at mask their additional need . to conclude , I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden and Backbench Business Committee for grant the debate . it be important that we recognise that the change we make in the 2014 Act have not give we the change that we need , and we must do well . I thank the Backbench Business Committee , on which I serve many year ago , and the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) for bring forward this important debate . that so many member be present show the importance of SEND education to our young people . People be disable by barrier in society , not by difference . child with special educational need and their family in Leeds North West be consistently make to feel that they be the problem . the system be a complete mess . there be a huge shortage of specialist provision and enhance mainstream provision , so child be force into school that do not have the expertise to manage their need . that lead to exclusion , isolation and child be withdraw . support staff do not have adequate training or care , and many be pay less than those work in supermarket . the number of child with special educational need and disability who be either exclude or wait for a place at a school have jump by almost a third since 2020 . the severe delay in child receive ehcp mean that family in Leeds North West have be leave in the dark for month about which secondary school their child will attend . that be especially distress for child with autism , who often struggle with routine change and would benefit massively from know where they will be place . one of my constituent tell I that it take until the end of year 6 for their child to receive an EHCP , which be far too late to secure a place for specialist provision for year 7 . only this December , in year 9 , have my constituent ' s son be able to secure a place in specialist provision — that be three year too late . he will never be able to get back those year of his childhood spend struggle with no support for his complex need . early intervention be non - existent . in many hospital , an initial appointment at a child development centre have a waiting list of more than 18 month , but after wait 18 month , it be not really early intervention any more , be it ? health visitor be unable to identify child who need speech and language therapy intervention , because they only have time to visit for child protection . although child protection be vital , we need a holistic approach for child . child and adolescent mental health service be on their knee . Leeds CAMHS be take on only the most egregious case , as it have huge waiting list , massive underfunding and a workforce crisis . it be estimate that only one in four child who need help for mental health issue obtain access to CAMHS service . I wish to look briefly at some positive example of provision in Leeds . I recently visit two setting with my right hon . friend the Member for Leeds Central ( Hilary Benn ) . we go to a specialist Lighthouse School for young people with autism in my constituency and to the Vine , which be part of Leeds City College , in my right hon . friend ' s constituency . I have one of the most challenging and interesting question and answer session with a group of young people . the first question put to I be : what be the meaning of life . as I be sure all member here know , that be not the normal question we would get when we go to school Q & a session . what be your answer ? my answer be 42 , reference Douglas Adams , which all the young people understand far well than I . they be a very bright and articulate bunch , but they be there because of the school and the additional support that it provide . Lighthouse be struggle for funding . it be a charity so , as well as the funding that it receive , it get additional funding and support from charitable mean , but that should not be how a school operate . it should be able to survive and thrive on statutory funding . the Vine be a specialist facility for profound and multiple learn difficulty , with a very challenging cohort of young people , many of whom be non - verbal . the family we speak to be so grateful for the provision , but we need so much more . its facility include a hydrotherapy pool , rebound facility and sensory perception room . it be the only place in Leeds that offer such facility , so it attract people from mile away . make sure that we have suitable school and service for these child should be a priority , but , unfortunately , due to the Government ' s abandonment of funding for local authority , Leeds City Council do not have the budget to manage and enhance these school place . this be not just a systematic let - down . to knowingly force child into school placement that we know be not right for they , or simply to accept the fact that they will not receive any education at all , be neglect , and I be afraid the neglect of vulnerable child amount to abuse . what a pleasure and privilege it be to have the opportunity to speak today . I thank the Backbench Business Committee and my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) for secure the debate . like many , I wish to start by thank not just our specialist school — Tor View , Belmont School , Cribden House School and Crosshill School in Darwin — but all the school in my constituency that support child with special educational need . I see my hon . friend the Member for Bury North ( James Daly ) in his place ; he be the Minister ' s parliamentary private Secretary , so he will not get the opportunity to speak today , but I know that he be a huge campaigner on this issue in his adjoining constituency . many of those school will be share between we to support our constituent . I come to this debate as a parent of a non - verbal six - year - old who have an ehcp . the experience we be talk about today and the struggle that parent face have be the experience and the struggle of my wife and I as we try to navigate the system on behalf of our son , which be why I be so grateful to have the opportunity to speak in this debate . I want to ask every colleague in the Chamber to do a favour for I , my son and other parent with child who have autism and other additional need . there be a brilliant organisation in my constituency call Spectrum of Light , which be run by Julie Nixon , who have give so much of her time to support the parent of child with additional need . we team up to hold an additional need , autism and special need fair , bring together all the council , include Lancashire County Council and Blackburn with Darwen Borough Council , and the support group into one room , and ask parent of child with additional need to come along . it be the most fulfilling and rewarding thing I have do as a Member of Parliament for at least a decade . it be our job to help people — to help parent . I know that many colleague across the House support apprenticeship fair and job fair . we all try to support our constituent . we have 400 parent attend our fair . I have parent contact I from Cumbria who want to attend . this be something that we , as mps , can do . we can all support parent who , like I and my wife , have really have to struggle to get the support that they need for their child . as Members of Parliament , we can make a difference by come and talk in this debate — it be a hugely important debate . we can also make a difference by use our office to support parent . the fair that we hold make such a difference to all the parent who attend . I just hope that this be something that we can all do on a cross - party basis . it do not matter what party we be from ; this be just about do good work and roll it out across our constituency . if anyone want to contact I about how to do it , I be more than happy to deal with the inquiry . that autism , special need and additional need fair in Lancashire demonstrate to I that we have a real challenge in service the demand of people like I and other parent . I recently visit east Lancashire adolescent centre at Burnley General Teaching Hospital , because it have be give a national Quality Network for Community CAMHS accreditation award . the lead psychiatrist tell I that there have be a 300 % increase in the number of child present with a diagnosis of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder since the covid lockdown . the centre be try to service that additional need without any additional funding , and that , in particular , be why this debate be so important . it speak to the challenge that other council face . I do not criticise anyone at Lancashire County Council or Blackburn with Darwen Borough Council ; they be do a brilliant job , but they be very , very push . spectrum of Light and I recently hold a teleconference for parent who be struggle to receive an EHCP . I will talk about some of those conversation . Sarah , a Rossendale resident , say that the deadline for the completion of her EHCP be 8 December . she have have no appointment with the educational psychologist . her seven - year - old son be rarely at school — he have attend school for only 20 hour since September . Hannah , another Rossendale resident , have three child who be currently try to get an ehcp . her daughter have ADHD and be struggle in school through isolation , but she can not get an ehcp . her son have autism and can not get an ehcp . they both attend a school in my constituency — in fact , all three of her child attend school in my constituency . the challenge , or the blockage , seem to be the lack of availability of educational psychologist to push through these ehcp to support parent . as well as ask every colleague to contact my office , which my staff will not thank I for , I want each of we to hold a fair to support parent who , like I , have a child with additional need and really need help . my big ask of the Government — not just for Lancashire but for authority across the country — be to find a way to increase the number and availability of educational psychologist . we can not ration ehcp through waiting list ; that be not the intention . it be not what the Government want to do , but it be , in practice , what be happen on the ground because of the lack of educational psychologist . my ask of the Minister — I hope he will deal with this in his summation at the end of the debate — be to please find a way to support council to fast track ehcp . that would make a difference . ehcp do work when people get they . I know that it work for I , my family and my son . the challenge be that people just can not get they in a timely manner . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for Rossendale and Darwen ( Sir Jake Berry ) . while I can not speak from personal experience in the way he movingly have , I hope to shed light on some of the issue through example that I have come across around the country and in my constituency . one of the reason I be in this place be that I be passionate about child and firmly believe that every child , no matter their background or need , can achieve great thing . as we have hear , too many vulnerable child be not get the support that they need to thrive and achieve their potential , and too many parent be fight an adversarial system because of the grow demand and the lack of resource . ehcp be inevitably be ration in the way that we have hear . we have hear about the grow number of council with high need deficit . that be why the Local Government Association say that the Government have not go far enough in address the cost and demand pressure . since 2016 , there have be an upward trend in the number of child with special educational need , but in the same period the number of speech and language therapist vacancy have soar . in my constituency , special school tell I that they just can not recruit the teaching assistant they need . there be also a lot of pressure on staff in mainstream school . I hear that week in and week out from school in my constituency . I go to visit Coppice Valley Primary School in Harrogate in October , where I have a long chat with the leadership team about SEND issue . heartbreakingly , the school ' s SEND lead , who be passionate about his job and brilliant at it , be leave his job because he do not feel that he can meet the need of the child he have be hire to serve , due to the problem that the school be have in access the resource that it need from North Yorkshire Council . my hon . friend the Member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) , who can not be here today , want I to share the story of a 16 - year - old boy in her constituency , who have a life - limit degenerative condition and be totally reliant on the care of other . he have attend a specialist school for many year , but have be unable to attend since September 2023 because he have now move into post - 16 education , and his parent ' travel allowance to get he to and from school be cut by 62 % . his parent be now unable to afford to transport he . I hear of a set of twin in Guildford , one of whom be go through the local secondary school while their sibling have languish at home for year , get little or no education . the lack of contact with child their own age and of a school routine be make the situation far bad . imagine how devastating it be for the parent to see one child thrive while their twin suffer . that can not be right . in my constituency surgery just a few week ago , I see a parent whose year 10 child be get a handful of hour of medical tuition at sporadic time through the week , which be a logistical nightmare for the parent , because the school that offer the alternative provision that they need , and that be suitable for they , simply do not have the space . with the grow number of child who be be identify as have SEND , there be insufficient provision and funding to keep pace . in particular , there be not enough space in our special school . unfortunately , the gap be often be fill by some who be just out to make money . let I be clear : I have no ideological issue with private SEND school . many be brilliant , not - for - profit charitable school , deliver an excellent education , but there be profiteer , often by private equity company . one company last year have a turnover for SEND of £ 134 million , and a £ 25 million profit after tax . far too many SEND school be make obscene profit , while the sector struggle to provide basic education for so many . that be put huge pressure on local authority budget , as be some independent child ' s home that be also run by private equity firm . we already have 34 local authority under the safety valve agreement with the DFE , and we expect more to go on to that list . we be be hold to ransom by people make money from those in need . we be all ask for more money to be put in by central Government , but there be definitely a case to be make that there be a saving to be find by have more state - fund specialist provision and give local authority the power to open special school when no other provider be come forth to set one up . briefly on tribunal , I think everyone will know from their casework that local authority win only 1 . 7 % of appeal but spend over £ 100 million fight they . again , that money could go into the system . every child matter . they deserve the very good . I be afraid that reform on SEND from the Government have be very slow . there have be delay after delay , not help by the political chaos at the top of Government . even the late reform that be announce last year will not work without adequate funding . I congratulate and thank the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) for secure the debate and shine a spotlight on the issue . I hope that the Minister will listen , and I look forward to his comment . it be strike that there be such strong cross - party support for the motion move by my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) . I congratulate he , and agree with every word of his speech . the Minister be a very smart man . I be sure that he will welcome the cross - party pressure , because he care a lot about this subject , and it will help he in his battle within the Department and with the Treasury for the much - need increase in funding in this area . Suffolk be also a member of the f40 . we be underfunde , even compare with Norfolk , which I can tell the House make we in Suffolk feel particularly bad . some 27 % of the local funding formula be still base on 2017 - 18 spending , and because that be low in Suffolk , it be a drag anchor . while that drag anchor remain , it be explicit in the formula that the funding be unfair between different county . that need to be fix so that county such as Suffolk get fair funding . despite the very tight funding , Suffolk County Council work incredibly hard . there be some excellent example of good practice — for instance , at St Mary ' s in Mildenhall , Exning Primary School and other that I have visit — but they all suffer terribly from the very tight funding . in addition to the point that have be make already across the party , I want to put a slightly uncomfortable truth on the table . have serve in the Department , and elsewhere in Government , I think I know a bit about what be go on . the challenge be that when ehcp be introduce in 2014 , they improve the system by make statemente more consistent across the country , but that do not resolve the fact that ultimately the budget be limited . I want the budget to be big , but however big it be , it will always be limit , so it be also about how the budget be allocate . thus far , we have have a discussion about how the budget be allocate between different county and region , lead — he be rather humble about it — by my hon . friend the Member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) , who be not only part of f40 , but be f40 and have lead f40 . we have also discuss who individually get a diagnosis , and therefore who get an ehcp . here there be a big social injustice that need to be name and then deal with : the silent scandal of access to diagnosis . I come at the issue from the point of view of dyslexia . I be dyslexic and it be the area that I be most expert in ; until recently , I be vice - president of the British Dyslexia Association . a study in November by the London School of Economics find that 15 % of child with specific learn difficulty be in the most affluent decile and 6 % be in the least affluent . that can not reflect reality . it be simply not true that 15 % of those in the most affluent decile have specific learning difficulty , and only 6 % in the most deprived . the truth be — this be just a fact of life — that in the most affluent decile be parent who can pay the £ 600 for diagnosis outside the state system , and more parent who be articulate and able to fight , and go to their MP and to the council to make their case , as my right hon . friend the Member for Rossendale and Darwen ( Sir Jake Berry ) do for his child . that mean that there be an unjust allocation of diagnosis within the system , with relatively too much diagnosis among those in the upper echelon of the demographic scale , and relatively too little for those who be less well off . that be unfair . ultimately , that be an affront to universal education . I believe in universal education because it underpin universal equality of opportunity in this country . however , what lead to the disparity we see in the datum of who get a diagnosis be if we say , " you can have universal education , but if your child have a special need , you can pay £ 600 to get they identify , which will make it more likely they will get the EHCP , and therefore much more state money follow they . if you don ' t have the £ 600 , or the wherewithal to find one of the many brilliant charity like Evelyn ' s that help you get it , you will not get that extra money and therefore the extra support " . that be hard to fix than just ask for extra money because it imply that , in one part of the income distribution , too many people be get a diagnosis . that be the uncomfortable truth . the fact be that there be not enough diagnosis , early identification and funding , but , crucially , there be also an inequality in the diagnosis that lead to the ehcp . I found a charity — the Accessible Learning Foundation — to try to champion that need for early identification and support . that be how much I care about the issue . I know the Minister care about it as well , and I hope that he will address the point about the distribution of access and who get identify , as well as the overall level of funding , because both need to be fix . I also thank the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) for secure the debate . back in 2014 , during the passage of the Children and Families Act 2014 , Labour , alongside a multitude of teacher , local authority , professional organisation and parent , warn the Government that their rush reform would create a postcode lottery of variable provision where many child with SEND would continue to be let down . we warn that unless the propose reform be properly fund and proper demographic modelling be carry out to assess the actual number of child and learner who need support , the reform would fail — and fail they have . even the Government agree that the reform have fail , state in 2019 as they launch a review into SEND that they aim to " improve the service available to family who need support " and end the " postcode lottery " they still face . after a three - year delay , the Government finally publish the review in 2022 , highlight their own failure again : that , too often , child and young people with SEND and those educate in alternative provision feel unsupported and their outcome fall behind those of their peer . eventually , in 2023 , the Government ' s SEND and alternative provision improvement plan and road map be publish . many have conclude that those be insufficient and ineffective give the crisis we face . that view be share by my constituent , who be absolutely exhausted from have to fight every single step of the way for their child ' s education . despite our local council ' s SEND department come out of special measure in 2022 , our child ' s service be now rate inadequate . despite hardworke council staff and dedicated teaching staff right across South Shields , the situation have not improve for many parent or child with SEND thank to continue cut . assessment be grossly delay , EHC plan be not be implement and child be travel mile out of our borough . in the midst of a cost of living crisis , my constituent be pay for private assessment , private tuition and independent school . there be simply not enough specialist provision and not enough support in mainstream education . costly appeal against EHC plan have rise to a record high since the 2014 reform — nearly 14 , 000 last year — yet 98 % have be successful , so it be clear that there be something grossly wrong with the system . that be likely only the tip of the iceberg , because many parent do not have the time , energy or financial support to continue legal action . the parent I have speak to say that they want I to use their word in the debate , but not their name for fear of any repercussion . that just show how threatened they feel by the system as a whole . it be not just our child who be be short - change . for young adult with SEND , access to further education be severely hamper by funding cut . they deplete the sector , which now survive largely on donation and fundraising . as always with this Government , it be charity , community interest company and other that have to fill the gap leave by the state for essential service . without the North East Autism Society and AutismAble in South Shields , I know that my constituent ' learn need would not be meet . access to education should be a fundamental right for all child , no matter who they be , where they be from or what their circumstance . a good education can mean the difference between where someone begin in life and where they end up . People across the House may already know that I struggle throughout my education with undiagnosed dyspraxia and dyslexia . I also do not come from a wealthy or privileged background and be certainly not destine to end up in this place , but I get here through good education , good teacher , work experience and training . education can make the impossible happen . that be why my party ' s goal always have be and always will be for educational excellence for every single child in this country . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) for bring this important debate on SEND to the Chamber . before I speak about SEND let I say that some young people and child have be sit in the Gallery in different group throughout the debate . I would like to say how incredibly proud I be of our nation ' s child and how incredibly proud they should be of themselves . today our child rank 11th in the world for math and 13th for read . I do not know whether they be year 13s , but if they or any child watch today be in year 13 , I can tell they that when they start school in reception , they be 27th in the world for math and 25th for read . it have be a massive change . I fundamentally believe that every child should have the right to a world - class education , because that education be what will give they the freedom to make choice about what they do with their future . every child should have that choice , and that be why special educational need child be so important . we should ensure that they have those choice , too . no child should be leave behind ; they should have the right support , opportunity and place . the high - need budget have double since 2015 , so it be not fair to say that there have be funding cut — it be not true — but there have also be a significant growth in demand . as child ' s Minister during the pandemic , I know that the toll the pandemic take on child , not just in this country but globally , break my heart . we know that it take a big toll on those child who be already know to have SEND , but it also mean that more child present today with special educational need than in the past . part of that be to do with the early year , which be so crucial to a child ' s development , particularly their communication and education skill . very young child miss out on those crucial three year . when I visit a primary school in my Chelmsford constituency last term , I be tell that 50 % of the child in their reception class be not properly toilet train . that be a massive change . other primary school have tell I that they see more reception and year 1 child present as somewhere on the autistic spectrum , as well as with some ADHD need , but because they be not assess early or give more support in the early year environment , they have arrive at school without support that could have help they cope more easily with mainstream school . I have be work with Essex County Council and some of my school to see what we can do about that . there be clearly a backlog in assess child . could we , for example , encourage or do more with educational psychologist to see whether they could see more child ? we know we have a shortage of educational psychologist , and they be in great demand , but could they be see more child in the time they have ? I be sure we could do more with specialist hub within mainstream school , which be key — where they work , they work really well . anecdotally , I be concern about the rise in child be put on part - time timetable , especially those who may not yet have an ehcp . part - time timetable should only be use for a very short time . I wonder whether there be some systemic social issue that be impact on young people ' s mental health — in particular , some have point out to I a suggest link between an increase in online gaming , poor mental health and non - attendance at school . I want to mention school attendance , because it have be in the press a lot this week with the new statistic show that the proportion of student that be persistently absent from school have more than double . as colleague have point out , where child have unmet SEND need , that can lead to they miss school because they face issue with attendance . there can be good reason why child with SEND sometimes have high rate of non - attendance than other , but we need to make sure that their need be meet . that be not a new issue this week , however . the Department for Education have focus on it and produce new guidance , " work together to improve school attendance " . the Select Committee also produce a detailed report , the no . 1 recommendation of which be that that guidance should be make statutory . before Christmas I present a private Member ' s Bill to the House , the School Attendance ( duty of Local Authorities and Proprietors of Schools ) Bill , which will do two thing : it will make that guidance statutory and it will require local authority to support family , school and child with their attendance . within that guidance there be the understanding that child with special educational need need bespoke support and that that support need to be carrot , not just stick and fine . I hope that every single Member of this House will get behind my private Member ' s Bill as one of the thing we should be do to support child with their attendance , include make sure that more child with SEND get the support they need . I thank the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) for secure this important debate . I declare an interest as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for special educational need and disability — everyone be very welcome to get involve in that — and as one of the few openly neurodiverse mps : I have dyspraxia , dyslexia and ADHD . across the sector it be a truism that SEND provision in the UK be chronically underfunde . other have already allude to the f40 estimate of £ 4 . 6 billion . while additional fund deliver through the deliver well value programme and the additional £ 2 . 6 billion on capital funding be welcome , it be clear that they just do not meet the fund need to stand still , let alone the additional demand for service , which be grow every year . fix the investment gap be critical to address the issue , but I want to make a plea that we can not see this as simply a number problem . we have see that approach recently from Ministers , for example with the revelation report in the Observer last October of a target to cut ehcp by 20 % in a contract to develop the deliver well value programme . it be not just about the target ; it be about the method of get there , through early intervention and through make our education system more inclusive . however , we should also be clear about the reality that , although hard - fought and hard - win , in a heavily under - resource system , an EHCP be a lifeline for young people and family in advocate for the provision they need . for many SEND family , the 20 % target will be a source of alarm . behind those number be family and young people who be struggle . the measure of a policy be not a fall statistic or the amount of money it save , but the extent to which it address the need of young people try to access the education that be their right . I strongly believe that our approach to the issue should start with treat SEND young people and their family with the dignity and respect that all people deserve . that should mean a support hand from day one , but we lack the infrastructure for that kind of early intervention . a survey last year by the Institute of Health Visiting find that only 37 % of health visitor in England feel that they be deliver a good or outstanding service . that be too low . only 6 % be work within the recommend ratio of 250 child per visitor , and 28 % — more than a quarter of the workforce — be service the need of 750 child . that be a terrible statistic . the institute estimate a shortfall of 5 , 000 health visitor in England , and 48 % say they will leave the profession in the next five year . we have also see dramatic cut in Sure Start service , with 1 , 416 centre closure since the onset of austerity in 2010 . as an aside , the scale of those closure throw yesterday ' s inadequate announcement of 75 new family hub into stark relief . as have be say , early identification of SEND also require have train early year staff who know what they be look for . to most people , that seem like common sense . a recent survey by the Fair Foundation find that people overestimate early year pay by 47 % . People value this workforce , but their pay do not value they . nearly three quarter of the survey participant think that people work in early year should be pay more , and I agree . we need to invest in the workforce charge with look after our child and properly value the work they do , as well as training and upskille they where necessary . on all these point of early intervention — the crisis in the health visitor workforce , cut to sure Start and the undervaluing of early year staff , the lack of multi - sensory teaching workforce and speech and language therapist , and the difficulty access physio — we be move in the wrong direction . we need more healthcare visitor , with visit on day one of a child ' s life ; we need more early year support for family and young people ; and we need a professionalise early year workforce that know how to identify the SEND need of our child . those problem be systemic . they be also about how service integrate . it be no good identify need if there be not enough capacity to give a timely referral . in March 2023 the waiting list for speech and language therapy have go up by 42 % since 2021 , from 51 , 000 to 73 , 000 — and no wonder . last year , the Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists find that almost one in four job be vacant across the UK . if we take ADHD , we know that the referral rate be go up , and there be some shocking statistic of people wait up to three year for a referral — the wait be up to a decade in some adult service . we need to cut down the waiting time for all form of assessment and diagnosis . to do that will require look at those backlog as we would any other backlog and take seriously the staffing shortage we be suffer . we should be promote strength - base approach to SEND . in the education system , we should be look to create inclusive space where young people can truly be themselves . there be no good reason why child with SEND should not flourish , but that mean rethink how we approach behaviour in classroom , training and support teacher to understand that all behaviour be a form of communication , not off - roll young people because they do not fit into a certain box or just to cheat the figure . I will finish with the point that Ofsted should not be rate any school excellent if it do not have good - quality SEND provision . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak in this very important debate , and to my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) for secure it . I hope that I can contribute with some experience as the leader of a local authority and as someone who sit on the Education Committee ' s SEND inquiry in 2019 . I want to describe the problem from a local authority perspective for colleague in the House . the 2014 legislation be well intentione , as we have hear , but it have not deliver on those intention . in some way it have create an impossible circumstance , where very high level of demand and expectation now exist on a service that face huge budget and capacity pressure . that be not sustainable . local authority in many way be catch between a rock and a hard place . they be expect to meet the demand of family but also have to balance a budget , and all the time with the knowledge that any step take to reduce cost may well end up be overturn in tribunal . inadvertently , and understandably , seek to give parent of SEND child some authority and control over what support they get be create an adversarial system . there be fund issue to all that , but fundamentally the system do not work , so funding alone will not fix it . because it be a partnership across health , school , local authority and other , there be a challenge both in meeting expectation and in accountability for the outcome . fundamentally , at a policy level we have a system that say to family that they can have whatever support and service they want . that be a laudable aim , but in reality there be limited budget and capacity in the system , which mean that local authority and delivery partner be constrain in what they can do . the system have not recognise that contradiction , so the local partnership be still judge against an unachievable target , which be why , in the late inspection , nowhere nationally be any well than " inconsistent " in its SEND outcome . in Nottinghamshire , we fully recognise the need for improvement in the capacity for SEND support , in tackle wait time for outcome , and in the scrutiny and accountability of the system , among other thing . we have introduce a new SEND improvement board — Dame Christine Lenehan of the Council for disabled Children it its independent chair — with the intention of drive improvement in the system with proper scrutiny and oversight . we have already see positive step from it . we be fully commit to tackle those issue , to the extent that I have also create a specific cabinet role for SEND support . in truth , though , we be constrain . the inspection regime be not really sure of what it be ask we for . many authority have huge deficit in the high need block , so they be massively overspending , yet they have still receive more positive inspection outcome . we have balance the budget and do not have a deficit , which clearly have an impact on service , but that do not seem to be a factor in inspection outcome . be we be ask to balance that budget or not ? we have a legal duty to do so , but it be not recognise by Ofsted . Nottinghamshire be among the most poorly fund authority in this space , but we still balance our budget for additional need . other authority have more money and still overspend massively but be reward with well inspection outcome . fundamentally , the system do not have a shared and coherent view of what it be ask we to deliver . that be a huge issue . we be also tell that the Government ' s approach be to increase inclusion in mainstream school where possible . it be absolutely right for child to receive appropriate support in mainstream set wherever possible , and for we to work with school and senco to deliver it . Notts have take that approach for many year and be hold up as an exemplar of good practice in some Government circle , but at inspection we be mark down for it . again , different part of Government be tell we different thing , so it be not always clear what we be be ask to do . we take a graduated approach and step child up the pyramid depend on need , but the first response be to try to support child to remain in mainstream school , partly because that be very often the good outcome for the child , and partly because it be a requirement of a system with limited funding that we try low - cost option first . from an outcome perspective , that be often the right thing to do , because although some child will require lifelong care , we want many of they to go on and live independent life and be in employment — we should have high ambition for our child . it be not often the good thing to become more reliant on more service than we need , because it can make that journey to be an independent adult more difficult . every child and every circumstance be different , but from what I be say , member can see where the tension and conflict arise at each stage . the opinion of health professional and people task with achieve the goal of help child to become independent adult often clash with the totally understandable desire of parent to get the most and very good bespoke support for their child . SEND transport be one of the big pressure on council budget at the minute . our budget have rise by 50 % over five year because of rise demand , inflationary cost of fuel and contract and wage rise , so we be again in a position of try to save money . in some case , that be the right thing to do because the expectation outstrip what be reasonable . however , it will inevitably lead we to further conflict as we have to go back to family and say , " I know you ' ve have a one - to - one taxi service to school with a supportive member of staff every day for the past several year , but we now need you to share with somebody else , " or , " we now need you to take your child to school yourself , because you have a mobility vehicle for that purpose . " that might be the right thing to do — these might be rational decision in order to offer the good service within a limited budget — but it will inevitably cause issue . that be come down the track . if we end up with such decision be overturn in tribunal , we be back to the question of what we be be ask to achieve within our limited budget . on a bright note , I want to mention some of the work that we be do in Nottinghamshire . we be take this incredibly seriously through our independent improvement board and cabinet - level focus , as I have mention . we be create 494 SEND specialist place , include at the Newark Orchard SEND School , which open last year , and at a new school that we be build in Mansfield this year — I be very proud of that . we be work with senco in our school to improve the graduated approach and the available support . money be not the ultimate answer here . we have well - mean legislation that do not work . I ask Ministers to consider two proposal : first , the help with SEND transport cost — Order . — and the other I will come back to . thank you . I call Rachael Maskell . such be the need in York that I have undertake a comprehensive project on SEND . at a recent constituency SEND summit of parent , agency and charity , all be desperate to see child have their care need meet . to put it into context , York be the 17th bad area for school funding , and it be in the bottom third for high need funding . child in York deserve the same as child across the country ; there should be no differentiation . I recently meet York Hospital ' s paediatric team . they highlight the change that they be see . in 2018 , they assess 42 child for autism . by 2022 that figure have rise to 118 , and last year it rise again . the story be that funding be not rise with the need that those child have . the same be occur for education , health and care plan . we need those rise to be meet with increase funding for the workforce — health visitor , physio , psychologist and speech and language therapist — and for special school place and mental health service . we need a comprehensive , multi - agency workforce plan . that be my first ask of the Minister . secondly , we know that early investment save money over a lifetime . we should see that not as spending but as investment in young life . we need to ensure that child with physical impairment have the equipment they need , so that they be not wait forever for a wheelchair , for example , but get it on spec and on time . one of my constituent have now be place in residential care halfway across the country because they need an accessible shower in their home . as I read this week , say goodbye bring tear to both parent ' eye . Goodness know the long - term cost . we need to smarten up when it come to child with need . this be not just about health or local authority funding ; it be also about education . I have see the travail of teach assistant in York who have be strip of 52 - week contract and give term - time only contract . they be juggle at least two job just to survive on the low pay scale imaginable . every day , they teach , nurse and support emotional , physical and mental health need with a high degree of skill . we need a proper job evaluation scheme and a national pay spine for teach assistant . they need recognition and wage that reflect it . as we have hear this week , we also need to consider exclude child . we know from the datum that autistic child be almost twice as likely to be exclude with or without a plan , which come at a heavy cost . the disciplinary process at South Bank Multi Academy Trust in my constituency , about which I be meet the Minister shortly , be turn away child with SEND at such a high rate . child there be melt down at home because they be not get the support they need . my third ask of the Minister be that , when he leave the Chamber , he go to the Department , rip up the draconian guidance on discipline , and start again by institute therapeutic school . fourthly , we need to have a look at the shortage of childcare and special support after school , during holiday and out of school . I thank York Inspirational Kids , Snappy , Choose2 , the Island and so many more for the provision that they offer , but their funding be also challenge . we need to ensure that they get the resource that they need to provide support for child outside school . for far too long , parent have battle . they be battle , they be fight , and they be exhausted because they be not get support . they wait for month and year to get the diagnosis that be key to unlock everything . we need to ensure that parent who be wait for a diagnosis get the advice and help that they need to well support their child in those early year . what a difference that could make for they . I thank all those who work in SEND in my constituency . I know how desperate they be . they be stress and stretch because they be try to deliver far more than their time allow . we value every penny spend in their direction , but we need to look again at the funding formula , which be simply not work , and ensure that we see it as an opportunity for the future . invest in these child — ensure that they have the opportunity they need . finally , we need a complete overhaul of the SEN improvement plan . it need to be far more evidence - base , base on the datum as well as the good therapy possible . we need to look around the globe at where they get thing right first time , and ensure that our child get that benefit too . ensure that service be properly fund will make such a difference to these young people . it will give they the opportunity in life that they be currently be deny ; it will help to heal the relationship between child and parent , which be often so stressed as they struggle to get by , week by week ; and it be the right thing to do . I thank all school staff for the amazing work that they do , day in and day out . I see that at first hand as a school governor for 20 year , during my time as an MP , and I be in awe of what teacher and school support staff do . they have massively improve the performance of child in England in reading and math — we have shoot up the international league table — and the first place to start be by give a big thank you to school for what they have do . I have see the work that our dedicated teacher do for child with special need and disability in Heathwood Lower School and many other school , and I have also spend time with voluntary group such as Freddie & Friends in Leighton Buzzard , which set out to provide a safe and welcome place for child with special need and disability . I hope that the fact that time out of school be equally important for these child do not get lose in the debate . like other local authority , Central Bedfordshire Council benefit from recent increase in funding for special educational need and disability , which be very welcome . despite that , the council have have to vote a furth £ 5 million of additional funding to balance the book . on the issue of fairness , I have look at the 2023 - 24 DSG funding figure for Central Bedfordshire and for Hampshire , which be a statistical neighbour of Central Bedfordshire . Hampshire get £ 5 , 528 per child , while Central Bedfordshire get £ 4 , 742 — a difference of £ 786 . if that high figure be good enough for child in Hampshire , it be good enough for the child I be proud to represent . notwithstanding the massive investment on the part of the Government and the extra money put in by Central Bedfordshire Council , Central Bedfordshire manage to complete only around one in five of its education , health and care plan application within the statutory timeframe , and a number of child with ehcp be still without a school . I wonder what the Government do to monitor and enforce local authority ' statutory duty . there be a wide problem at play in get child in my constituency the support that they need . many — probably a majority — of the child who go on to need an education , health and care plan need to see a specialist doctor at our local child development centre , the Edwin Lobo Centre . the waiting list for that centre , which serve my constituent , currently stand at between 65 and 72 week . once the appointment have take place , there be often a delay of a further four to five week before the doctor ' s report be receive . all that take place before the 20 - week clock start tick , and in four out of five case it will be miss anyway . that mean that child be routinely wait more than two year in either an inappropriate setting or a school where there be insufficient funding to properly meet their need . for many young child , that can represent a very large proportion of their school life , and lead to they miss out on those vital first few year . it be clear to I that what be need be what we try to get back in 2014 : a more join - up approach to special educational need and disability by the Secretary of State for Education and the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , to look at this issue in the round . when the Minister respond to the debate , I would be grateful if he could address my point about the difference in local authority funding , the wait in the health system , and what we can do to bridge the gap and get the care that these child need to be provide on a timely basis . all member present have experience of their own constituency . I be the chair of governor of a specialist school ; like the right hon . member for Rossendale and Darwen ( Sir Jake Berry ) , I bring together local organisation and parent over time . I declare an interest : my wife , Dr Cynthia Pinto , be an educational psychologist . she chair the British Psychological Society ' s education and child psychology division , which be in conference at the moment . I will circulate a couple of page from a briefing that have be send to I that contain some of the discussion that be take place at that conference . all the experience we be report in this House be very similar . we have come across some wonderful young people who have achieve so much despite the disadvantage they have have , and some incredibly dedicated staff — true professional do the good they can — but also a large number of tragedy relate to the struggle those young people face , particularly to get the assessment and support they need . member may remember that last September a report be release regard the increase in the number of complaint from parent to the local government ombudsman . there be a 60 % increase in the number of complaint uphold by the ombudsman from parent who be fail to get access to the service they desperately need . as the right hon . member for Rossendale and Darwen say , most of those complaint be about access to the assessment to get the plan itself in place . I do not want to repeat what have be say before , but I be afraid this do come down to money — it be about finance . as we have hear from other member , people have fail to get access from the very early stage , and if my constituency be anything like other , the closure of the sure Start centre have have an impact . the development of family hub may be a bit of a solution , but as the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) outline at the very beginning — as always , I congratulate he on secure this debate — the gap in overall local government expenditure be huge , and it be cumulative over a number of year . I welcome the additional money that the Government have provide in recent year , but the lack of investment have build up over a long time . the f40 group ' s figure be incontestable , and that lack of investment be report right across the country . the motion we be debate call for a review of SEND funding ; I be interested to hear from the Minister how that review will take place if the House pass the motion , because it be urgently need . to turn back to the issue of educational psychologist , I want to cite the Government ' s own stat . the educational psychologist route into the plan be so key to ensure that parent have confidence that there be something they can build on at least , and they use those plan effectively in their negotiation with their local authority to get the resource they need . as the right hon . member for West Suffolk ( Matt Hancock ) say , due to the lack of access to local authority educational psychologist , too many parent be have to raise the fund themselves to bring in a private educational psychologist , which of course then advantage they over other . the figure that the Department for Education have publish regard educational psychologist recruitment state that 88 % of local authority be report difficulty in recruitment ; 48 % be cite pay as a reason ; one third be report difficulty with the retention of educational psychologist ; and 69 % be not confident that they will be able to meet the demand for educational psychologist service . a staggering 96 % of local authority that report recruitment and retention issue say that those difficulty affect outcome for child and young people require support . the inability to get a plan as a result of the long waiting time for educational psychologist assessment be almost the foundation stone of the current failure of the system . I have to say that the recent pay deal have not help at all . this year , for the first time in its history , the Association of Educational Psychologists take industrial action because it be desperate on the issue of pay . it have just have a settlement , which it have reluctantly accept , but the argument come back from the association be that it do not think the settlement will do anything for retention or future recruitment . that have to be look at , and it will undoubtedly come back as an issue — not , I hope , as an issue for industrial action , but as an issue for proper negotiation . how be the Minister go to respond to all the issue we have raise ? today we will agree that there should be a review . unfortunately , the review that take place and the plan put forward by the Government have not work and have not embed confidence in the mind of other . I would therefore welcome the Minister ' s view on how such a review should take place . I also say to those on my own Front Bench that this issue have to be address when we go into government — I hope , in the come month — and that will require resource . it be a pleasure to take part in this very important debate , and I congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) on secure it . I have two special need school in my constituency : Alderman Knight School — I should declare that my wife be a governor of it — and the Milestone School . they provide the most amazing care and education for child with special need . specifically , Milestone provide for child with far more complex need , while Alderman Knight provide for those with a range of difficulty . one of the problem we have in Gloucestershire , as have be say about other area , be a lack of special school place . estimate put that figure at about 330 place short across the county . the problem be that because they have be give place on appeal , 100 child have have special school place award to they , but no place have yet be find for they . that be a very big difficulty that both the school I mention have raise with I . Alderman Knight be build 10 year ago for 120 pupil , and there be now 235 pupil on its roll . that put a big strain on the school itself , and it also mean that class size have increase . the problem with that for special school be that as the class size get big , they tend to lose what make they special , which be something they be very concerned about . such school be obviously very concerned about their budget . as have be say , the formula for calculate the cost of educate child in special school be outdate and do not work , especially when child require a one - to - one situation . it simply do not enable the school to provide that kind of care . the problem be that even if they could find extra teacher and even if they could recruit they , they could not actually afford to do so because of their budget . all this mean that the school be under great strain , but it also mean that as place be not find for some pupil who should be educate in special need school , they end up in mainstream school . it have always be the case that an awful lot of pupil with special need be educate in mainstream school , which have cope magnificently for very many year with many of those pupil , but some of those pupil should actually be in special school , not mainstream school , and such school tend to struggle to provide the kind of care and education that their pupil need . they also have problem with funding , because the formula they depend on be outdate and not accurate , so they have a similar problem . we have a big and grow problem . as mention by right hon . and hon . member , we have a problem with the overall funding formula . Gloucestershire have traditionally be lower funded . I do not know why , and no Minister in any Government have ever be able to persuade I of the reason for that or the need to continue with such a situation . I be aware that a few year ago , because of pressure from f40 and many of we in this Chamber , the formula be improve , but by no means have it be improve to the extent that it need to be improve . I be not necessarily ask for more money from the Treasury ; I be ask for the cake to be slice up in a much fair way and for the formula for calculate how much be need to educate child with special need to be reassess and change . I think that each county or metropolitan area — however it be divide up — need to carry out a full assessment of how many child have special need and require place in special school , and against that they need to assess how many place be available . if there be a shortfall , the Government must come forward with proposal for how that will be put right . we certainly need to assess how much it be cost mainstream school to educate child with special need and whether they be get enough money . it be my submission that they be not , so we need to decide what we will to do about that . I be not go to speak about ehcp because that issue have be cover by several hon . member . the only thing I would add be that it be not only the time it take to get the plan that be the problem ; the plan also need to be reassess as the child progress through school . quite often , that take far too long , so the child do not get the care they need and they do not then get the money follow those new assessment . there be lot of issue , but I only have a very short time , so I want to finish by pay tribute to the special school not only in my constituency , but across Gloucestershire . we have something of a battle many year ago to save special school provision in Gloucestershire , and I be glad we do because such school carry out the most fantastic work . however , we do need to reassess the situation , and we need to make sure that those school can carry on serve what be very special child . rise — order . it will be obvious to the House that many people still wish to speak . after the next speaker , I will have to reduce the time limit to five minute . the next speaker , with six minute , be Ruth Cadbury . fantastic — thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) on secure the debate . we have hear many excellent speech from across the House , although I notice that there be demand for more funding from member whose party have be responsible for these budget for the past 13 year . every time I visit a school in my constituency and discuss my role and the child ' s aspiration with they , I go on to meet the head or senior leadership team , and without exception the first and most pressing issue they raise with I be SEND . they tell I they do not have the resource to adequately support these child or their parent . they feel that these child be be abandon . that be not for want of adequate legal power , with the EHCP system bring in in 2014 , or due to the support structure of Hounslow council , but because of a chronic lack of resource to deliver what the law expect . head also tell I that there seem to have be a recent rise in the number of child who clearly have additional need , with child exhibit extreme stress , which be hardly surprising give the housing and income pressure that many local family face . a grow number of child also appear to be present with some form of neurodiversity . Most teacher be not specialist in mental health , neurodiversity or other form of SEND . however , school feel that they can not teach a child , or indeed the other child in the class , if five child in a class can not sit down , can not stop talk , or be even scream , rip thing up , chew thing , or as I hear about one child , spend hour on end switch a particular light switch on and off , on and off . these child be not naughty . the experienced educationalist tell I this know that , with appropriate and adequate specialist support , these child can and would learn . they can thrive and they can achieve , but the school just do not have the resource to provide the world - class education that all child need . treat SEND as a serious policy priority be important not just for child with additional need , but for their parent and sibling , their teacher and the other child in their school , but under this government these people be not get the support they need . they be be let down , and child ' s future be be fail . in 2014 , the Government extend the SEND duty of local council to include young people up to the age of 25 and add social and healthcare need to what be previously a statement just of educational need , yet there be no additional funding for the additional legal requirement . despite this Government undermine local authority ’ role in school management and governance , local authority be still expect to provide appropriate SEND provision . they can not do that when there be sweeping cut to their budget : hounslow council have face budget cut of over £ 150 million since 2010 , and the cut have have a huge negative impact on local SEND support in the borough . countless local parent have tell I they be have to wait far too long for their child ' s EHCP , and when the plan be issue , there be huge flaw and not enough support . threshold for support rise as funding decline . one indicator of the scale of such problem be that , nationally , there be 14 , 000 appeal to tribunal in 2022 - 23 — an increase of 24 % in the last year — and 98 % of the case be resolve in favour of the parent and child . often , the appeal mark the first time parent feel they have be listen to , but as the right hon . member for West Suffolk ( Matt Hancock ) say , the tribunal system only help parent who have the ability and the resource to push through the jungle . many of our constituent would not know where to start . no parent should have to fight for an appropriate education for their child . what about the specialist resource take up by the assessment and the tribunal that should be spend on provide appropriate education and support for these child , appropriate training for their teacher , and appropriate support for their parent , which together will enable the child to thrive ? the briefing we receive from the National Autistic Society highlight the inefficient spending of what fund there be in the system , although as I say , funding be insufficient . the hurdle in front of parent before , during and after the process of appeal be immense . that be the central message I receive when I visit and meet the Hounslow Parent Carers Forum and hear about the problem they face . the shortage of resource mean that there be a lack of training for teach assistant for one - to - one support , a lack of transport and a lack of specialist therapeutic support , and for many child it even mean the lack of a school place . child with high need be stick at home , with parent who can not go out to work , because there be no special school place for they . More family with one or more child with additional need be also face housing stress . I have constituent with a very disturbed child , who be always try to jump out of a tower block window . the Government have take many positive step , include double high need funding since 2015 , but increase demand for SEND support , together with change to the code of practice in 2014 and then the covid pandemic , have exacerbate the challenge . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) on bring this debate to the House . I will talk about early year and early intervention . there have never be more funding pour into early year and childcare provision than there be now , but that be extend the provision of the free entitlement . early intervention be crucial , and it require skilled staff who can spot special educational need or gap , and a coherent strategy align with funding policy to deliver early intervention and early support effectively . SEND policy and more funding for it need to be bring into early year . we need more focus on high - quality provision for those who need it the most . that will require significant funding initially , but it will save billion in the long term . I know the Government take seriously their plan to deliver long - term change for a bright future for everyone in the UK . we need to invest to save . I will focus on Hastings and Rye and East Sussex County Council , where the need for SEND support be a daily issue in my inbox . I call for more alternative provision in Hastings and St Leonards , and the head of the three secondary school in the area be unite with I in this call . high - quality alternative provision be desperately need to meet the need of the leave - behind child . no child should ever be leave behind . we now have a huge number of child with SEND ; it be not sustainable for school and East Sussex County Council to meet the high need of those child with the current model . every child deserve to have their need meet , so they can flourish and be useful member of our society . the implementation of the Children and Families Act 2014 place significant new and unfunded burden on local authority . there have be an exponential increase in the number of child be identify as have significant SEND need , many to the extent that it be feel that they can not be provide for in their local mainstream school . only this week , I receive a letter from the conservative leader of East Sussex County Council regard the council ' s financial situation . although inflation have fall , it have have a permanent impact on budget , as some significant cost have rise at a high rate than the quote inflation rate . at the same time , demand for statutory service , particularly child ' s social care , home - to - school transport and adult social care , continue to rise at an exponential rate . for example , the number of child in care whose placement cost more than £ 10 , 000 a week have rise , with the single costly one currently £ 31 , 000 a week , or £ 1 . 6 million annually . East Sussex County Council be a member of f40 . we need a fair funding formula — which should have cross - party agreement so that there be no change in the come year — for local authority that reflect local need . Alison Jeffery , the excellent and experienced director of East Sussex child ' s service , which be rate outstanding by Ofsted , have give East Sussex mps a comprehensive briefing for today ' s debate in which she outline the challenge , but also suggest sensible solution . I have send the Minister the full briefing paper by email for his consideration and discussion , and I hope he will meet I to do that . Ms Jeffery state that while she and East Sussex child ' s service always want more investment , the policy and legal framework for SEND be of equal importance . the SEND Green Paper identify a range of factor , some of which be be test through the SEND and AP change programme , which have significant challenge . many of the thing be test be not main driver of either demand or cost ; more importantly , no legislative change be be make as part of the programme . the thing that do drive demand be not be address : for example , we need to review urgently the threshold for a full SEND need assessment . one option be to give mainstream school the resource , autonomy and responsibility to support pupil with SEND short of an EHCP , without label they as such . that would allow a readjustment of the threshold for access an EHCP , so it would be meet only when it be evident that provision in a mainstream setting be either not possible , or possible only with specify extraordinary support . there be other challenge and solution , and I hope the Minister will meet I to discuss they . I congratulate and thank the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) , a constituency neighbour of mine , for secure this debate on such an important subject . he be quite right to point out that the resource available for child with additional need in our part of Yorkshire be under immense strain , and I look forward to work with he on a cross - party basis to improve provision for those in our area who desperately need it . he paint a bleak picture of SEND provision nationally , with local authority ’ high - need funding deficit predict to reach £ 3 . 6 billion by March 2025 . it be clear that we be fail in term of both the quality and the quantity of provision across the country . it be important that we think about the life of the people I come across every day who be wrap up in this failure : the child prevent from realise their full potential by a system that work against they ; the parent trap in a seemingly endless cycle of push disjoint agency and authority , often trap in their home with little respite ; and finally the overworked and under - resource service provider , who be force to paper over the crack of a broken system — a system that appear to be fail everyone in my local area who try their good to engage with it in difficult circumstance . those who operate our service be nobly try to do more with less to meet the need of a grow number of child with additional need , but meet this growth in demand be simply not possible without increase resource . refuse to recognise the resource crisis in this sector be an unparalleled false economy , and insufficient emphasis on intervention at the early year foundation stage store up huge cost pressure far down the line . that be evident in the nationwide datum on this issue . across the country , the number of child with SEN who be either exclude or wait for a school place have rise by 29 % in the past three year . that be the consequence of not face up to the challenge of proper funding and refuse to take the hard choice to do the right thing to provide sufficient support for these child and their family . the national figure be compound by the particularity of the area I represent . in Selby and Ainsty , our rurality , as the right hon . Gentleman mention , our poor public transport infrastructure and the wealth inequality that we see across our constituency create challenge of provision that be hard to crack on a public policy level , but also make the experience of live without provision more isolate and overwhelming for the parent and child affect . in the Selby district , SEND provision be not just in a rut ; it be truly in freefall . as I say in my maiden speech , parent have to suffer through the uncertainty of send their child to travel in taxi for hour a day to attend school in Scarborough or Harrogate . those child be often exhausted and stress . non - verbal autistic child be unable to communicate the sheer scale of the stress that such journey create for they . any reasonable person in my constituency can see that the situation can not continue . I be glad that the Department for Education have engage constructively with I on this subject . I thank the Minister personally for his effort to do so , but I would like to push a little far on a few specific point that I have raise previously . first , though I concede that the phase - in period for a Selby SEND school must be well manage , I press the DFE to make every effort possible to explore effort for temporary accommodation uplift in the intervene year before the school be open and to ensure that these temporary place be extend to many local child as quickly as possible . I be sure that the Minister can understand the frustration of local parent , who have already be wait half a decade for the school to open . in the first year , only 40 student will be accommodate , in the second year it will be 75 , and the school will only reach its full complement the year after . that mean that by the time it reach full capacity , it will have be almost a decade since funding be first allocate by the DFE . maintain option for temporary accommodation throughout this process will be crucial . I remain resolute in my conviction that every child in the Selby district , regardless of their need , have the right to a world - class education in a well - fund british school . I will keep fight to make that a reality , and I once again thank the Minister for his engagement and the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden for secure this crucial debate . every child be special and deserve the good possible start in life . that be why I be a passionate advocate for SEND . like many in this place , I wish I have a magic wand to resolve all the issue that have be discuss this afternoon , but I do not . resolution require dedication , vision , hard work and , above all , lot of money . as the MP for Bracknell , it would be easy for I to knock labour - run Bracknell Forest Council for what it be and be not do , but that be not my style . I be a team player , and those who know I will realise that the good politician be those who work cross - party to resolve issue of great importance , as SEND be to everyone in Bracknell Forest . there be also work to do locally , and I will continue to do my bit in Westminster . nationally , I be comfortable right now that the Government be move in the right direction on the offer for those with SEND . the headline be that the Department for Education be invest £ 2 . 6 billion between 2022 and 2025 to support local authority to offer new place and improve exist provision for child and young people with SEND . that be reinforce by the SEND review publish in March 2023 . the headline there be that spending have increase by more than 60 % from 2019 - 20 to £ 10 . 5 billion overall by next year , which be a lot of money . the SEND paper review a number of key challenge , particularly the difficulty that parent have in navigate the SEND system . I have meet many family locally and the story have move I to tear in some case . there be difficulty of access to provision , child not in school and place not available . it be a difficult thing to have to deal with as an MP , and I do my good , as we all do . outcome for child with SEND be not comparable with their peer . despite the continue and unprecedented investment , the system be not financially sustainable . what be be do ? we have an extra £ 1 . 4 billion for the high - need provision capital allocation . in June 2022 , the Department announce that it would build up to 60 new centrally deliver special need school . one of those will be in my constituency in Crowthorne , and I be pleased to have play a small part in secure the funding for that , but let we be more ambitious and go for a third . we have Kennel Lane and the new school in Crowthorne , and let we go for a third , because there be demand for those place . I urge Bracknell Forest Council to be more ambitious in what it seek from the Government . I recognise that the high - need budget have rise by more than 40 % over three year , and the Department be continue to work with local authority with the high dedicated school grant deficit as part of the safety valve programme . I recognise that this be of great difficulty for school locally . Bracknell Forest have the safety valve programme . I recognise the impact that it be have , and it may be the good option in the short term . overall , more money than ever be be invest in school right now , ensure that every child get a world - class education . the total budget of £ 59 . 6 billion in 2024 - 25 be an increase over previous year and the high per capita funding ever . that be also the same for SEND funding , but it be still not enough . I will raise two quick issue with the Minister . the first be that mental health service need a shot in the arm . we have £ 2 . 6 million in child ' s mental health in Bracknell , but CAMHS be a disaster , and it need 20 , 000 volt put straight through it . it be not right that family be wait two year or more for a consultation . it be immoral and inept . the irony will not be lose on the Minister that a gp can not prescribe medication for any neurodiverse condition without a diagnosis from CAMHS . there be a vicious cycle whereby we can not get diagnosis , we can not resource ehcp , we can not place child in setting and we can not even give the parent and the kid themselves some solace without a diagnosis from CAMHS . I would like every local authority in the UK to comprehensively review its SEND provision so that it become available in every area for every child . specialist setting be the way forward for those who need they , and every local authority should have those specialist setting under their wing . we need to invest in our child with SEND as never before . yes , there be more to do , and yes , more money be need — lot of it — but we also need to make well use of what we have . we need to be efficient and able locally to give the kid what they need . Devon be in the middle of a special educational need pandemic , unrelated to the pandemic . I teach briefly before be elect to this place , and I be shock by the number of child with special educational need . I have entire class where every single child have a special educational need . a newly qualified teacher simply can not do anything beyond what a more experienced colleague advise , which be to treat every child as special , as indeed they be . I start by pay tribute to all the parent , teacher and student who be battle the system to get what they believe be right for their child back home in North Devon . I recognise those frustration , and my inbox be full of those concern , but my word today be not about individual case . when look at this issue , we need to aggregate to try to well understand what be happen . in Devon , we seem to have far too many child be give a label , rather than the help they need to fulfil their potential . an excellent report by the South - West Social Mobility Commission find that the south - west have the few child from disadvantaged background reach the expect level in reading , writing and math at age 11 of any region , at just 37 % , compare with 53 % in London . the region also have the few young people from any background go on to level 4 or above education or training . progression rate among those from disadvantaged background be just 50 % in the south - west , compare with 76 % in London . within those statistic , Devon be an enormous education authority . on average , it clearly do not look too great from these figure , but even that hide the variance of what be go on in the northern part of the county , where our social mobility be significantly bad than the south . Devon be diagnose SEND and give out ehcp at twice the rate of our neighbouring council . in Devon , the number of child and young people with an ECHP have grow from 3 , 718 in 2017 to 8 , 400 in 2023 : a 126 % increase . family in Devon pursue an EHCP as they know that will gain they well support than be without one , but it be no wonder that budget be under pressure give this explosion . I would like to see far more work be do to understand why that be the case , how we can reduce it and how we can raise the educational attainment and social mobility of our young people rather than increase the number of label they carry . the situation in Devon have go on for year . we now have a cohort of young people leave school with few qualification , a special educational need and limited support to move forward . the situation be so severe that a recently arrive academy trust have have to adapt its normal process because of the level of SEN and the high number of pupil unable to cope with its discipline regime . whatever the right and wrong of that regime , that thing be so different in northern Devon from elsewhere in the country do ring alarm bell . that be particularly because , be so sparsely populated , it be not like a city where a child can switch to another school if something go really badly wrong at school . my school have some of the big catchment in the country , and if child and their parent feel that they would be well serve outside their exist school , that result in child be home educate . for some family , that be ideal ; for many , it be not . have be the home education for a child while I teach , I do not believe that the one hour a week that I provide replace a school education . no one seem to be able to track fully where these child be , how many have opt out of school or be off - roll , and what provision they be receive . for those who have particularly complex need and require a special education , we currently have 140 application for every 30 place . child be travel halfway across the county to get to school . ninety minute in a car be no way to start the day . it also mean that any friendship be unlikely to extend beyond school , and the cost involve be astronomical . Devon ' s SEN transport cost have rise from £ 10 . 4 million to £ 26 . 8 million : a 157 % increase . there be clearly an argument that Devon need more funding as we receive an average of £ 790 a head compare to the national average of £ 886 , rank 122nd out of 151 local authority . we budget far too much funding , at £ 289 per capita , for independent specialist provider — double the english average — and in 2022 we budget 25 % large per capita spend . against that backdrop , I warmly welcome the Government ' s work and their commitment to work with Devon County Council to tackle that , with the Minister ' s engagement and that of his predecessor . I warmly welcome the commitment to build new special school in Devon . however , the delay on two of they be put further pressure on council budget . the arrival of the new , proactive chief executive at Devon County Council , with her experience of deliver in rural area , do give I hope for the future , but the rate of growth in SEN be not sustainable . rural per - pupil funding — particularly for transport — do need address , and we need well , sustainable early year support and intervention so that pupil can avoid the need to apply for an EHCP . I hope that the Minister will be able to find time to meet I and Devon colleague to discuss the challenge that our constituent and council be face . the Conservatives ' record in education over the last 13 year have be very good . from phonic and academy to free school and the recent news that the total core school budget will be at its high ever level in the next financial year — £ 59 . 6 billion — there be much to be proud of . however , the story be not universally good . when I visit school in my gedle constituency , I always ask the headteacher at the end of my visit , " if I could wave a magic wand and solve one thing for you , what would it be ? " the almost unanimous response — specifically of primary head — be about improve SEND provision . I therefore congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) and the Backbench Business Committee for make this important debate possible . I welcome the news that between 2022 and 2025 , there will be an extra £ 2 . 6 billion to support local authority to deliver new place and improve exist provision for child with SEN . the f40 group , which we have hear much about , have produce information show the high - need block funding per pupil allocation by local authority , which show that Westminster and Camden be at the top of the table — Camden get more than £ 2 , 500 per pupil — but Nottinghamshire be fourth from bottom , at about £ 1 , 000 . now . I appreciate that there can be various regional factor — London weighting and so forth — but in 2023 - 24 Nottinghamshire have receive £ 7 . 4 million less in funding compare with Worcestershire , and £ 20 million less than Warwickshire . so although I acknowledge the significant uplift in funding in the last four year , Nottinghamshire still have the poor funding per head compare to neighbour . Nottinghamshire see an increase in education , health and care plan of just over 12 % in 2021 and just over 11 % in 2022 , in line with the national annual increase of 11 % , but the low funding level increase pressure on mainstream setting to meet the need of child with complex special educational need and disability , and the pressure on school budget combine with the increase in level of complex need mean that school be struggle to fund the notional SEND allocation per child require before they request additional top - up funding . we hear early from the leader of Nottinghamshire County Council , my hon . friend the Member for Mansfield ( Ben Bradley ) . I applaud his work at the county council to increase high - quality special school and alternative provision place . he outline that there be plan in place or in development for 494 place , but , with a recent capacity survey suggest that 657 will be require by September 2027 , there be still the risk of a shortfall . my hon . friend raise the subject of SEN transport , which be a significant issue in Nottinghamshire . it be a reasonably large county , and SEN transport expenditure have increase significantly , from £ 7 . 6 million in 2018 to over £ 12 . 4 million by 2023 . that cost increase have be drive by : increase pupil number require specialist provision ; a lack of local specialist provision so travel be require ; increase journey time ; and significant inflationary pressure , with fuel cost increase by 40 % in the last 18 month and wage by 10 % . all that have mean that the average retendere contract for SEN transport have increase by between 10 % and 35 % . therefore , although I welcome the fact that the Government have meet their inflation target — they have halve inflation over the last year , and inflation be come down — those cost pressure obviously remain . I will also highlight the time that it can take to process funding application . Nottinghamshire have a lot of stand - alone infant school — I go to one myself : Pinewood Infant School in Arnold in my gedle constituency — and one issue that can be face be that , by the time the funding have come through , the child have already leave the infant school . Nottinghamshire County Council be do much work to streamline funding for child in the transition from nursery set to school , with a particular focus on stand - alone infant school , but I would welcome further work by the DFE to help make that process well . the f40 Group be campaign for equitable funding for all school to deliver high - quality education . I appreciate that some of its ask be big and , with billion of pound require , that will not be resolve overnight , but I do ask whether the process can be streamline and make quick so that we get the money to where it be need . there be also serious work to be do to address the regional variation that mean that area such as Nottinghamshire have be leave out . I do not intend this to be a critical speech . as I say at the outset , the Conservatives have a good story to tell from the " Right Support , Right Time , Right Place " Command Paper to the doubling of high - need funding since 2015 and investment in new special school , but there be more work to be do on level up in this area . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) for secure this important debate . for many year we have recognise the importance of universal education for all child and young adult . back in 1880 , school attendance be make compulsory for child age between five and 10 . in 1893 , Parliament extend the principle of compulsory education to blind and deaf child , establish the first specialised school . similar provision would be make for physically impair child by the end of that century . why do that matter ? we as a nation recognise and champion the idea of universal education . this House recognise that principle back in the late 1800 , but it be not until 1921 that the local education authority be give the responsibility to identify child with physical and non - physical disability — what we call today special educational need — and ensure that child be provide with education right the way through to the age of 16 . today , we can not guarantee a universal education for every child , or at least not at the level to properly help child grow and learn . nowhere be that more the case than for child and young adult with special educational need or disability . across England , 1 . 4 million pupil have a diverse range of educational need , and not every one of they be get the education they need or deserve . the Government have acknowledge that and vow to tackle it , which I welcome , and I will continue to work with the Government on that . when unveil the SEND review in 2022 , the then Secretary of State for Education admit that while prior reform such as those in 2014 give critical support to more family , the reality be that the system be not work . as many member have mention this afternoon , parent email I constantly and visit I at surgery , ask and plead with I to help they secure adequate provision for their child . I care deeply about this , which be why I have make it one of my priority as the Member of Parliament for Uxbridge and South Ruislip . as a serve councillor in Hillingdon , I be all too aware of the work that Hillingdon Council have to do to provide suitable SEND provision to those child and young adult who need it . despite the challenge in Hillingdon , the child service team have recently be award outstanding by Ofsted . what be more , I have be lucky to see the work be do when I visit local school . through charity visit , I have be able to hear more about what they be do to help child and young adult with special educational need . I be proud to say that that include the SeeAbility programme at Moorcroft School in Uxbridge . SeeAbility be an amazing organisation that work to ensure that child with disability do not miss out on eyecare and play a part in champion the Government ' s national scheme to bring eyecare to all special school . that work by the council , charity and other organisation be be undo by incredible strain — financial strain — especially , as many colleague have mention , from transport cost . it be great to see the various announcement and project in the SEND review , but we run the risk of they be undercut by this issue . sufficient funding be vital for local authority such as Hillingdon to have the resource to secure the requirement for child and young adult to achieve their full potential . the billion in funding that the Government have rightly set aside to well protect and expand SEND provision across the country be a far cry from the 10 shilling award back in the late 1800 . however , there be concern that there be a lack of recognition of inflationary pressure , as well as those relate to supply - side matter , such as fuel cost . council such as Hillingdon play a key role in support child and young adult with special educational need . these pupil be not ask for anything outrageous or to take liberty . they just want suitable education provision to fulfil their full potential . their parent and the local authority want they to fulfil their full potential . we can realise the idea of universal education , truly make it universal for all child and young adult across Uxbridge and South Ruislip and the whole nation . I pay tribute to everyone who provide educational provision across Hillingdon , and to parent and pupil for their amazing work with the difficult challenge around they . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) on secure this debate , and the Backbench Business Committee for grant it . as in the rest of the country , SEND provision in Suffolk be in crisis . we urgently need a review not just of the funding but of how we provide a vulnerable and very needy group of child and young people with the education that they need and deserve . almost daily I receive email , first from desperate parent unable to secure an appropriate school setting for their child , who quite often receive very little education at all , and secondly from primary school headteacher , senco and staff exasperate at be unable to obtain the support they need and at be ask to provide schooling for pupil who really should be in a specialist setting . the system be break , and the situation have be exacerbate by inflationary pressure since 2015 and covid . it often take year to obtain an education , health and care plan , on which there probably be too great a reliance . in the Waveney area , school and staff be do great work — include the Ashley School and Castle School East — but we urgently need more local provision and to get away from a model whereby vulnerable young child be drive hour around Suffolk and Norfolk . in the remain time available , I shall briefly focus on four funding issue . first , as we hear from my right hon . friend the Member for West Suffolk ( Matt Hancock ) , Suffolk receive a very poor high need block funding settlement . it be base on historical need and bear no resemblance to the need of today . local authority with similar SEND responsibility receive wildly different and well funding settlement . Suffolk , as we hear , be a founder member of the f40 . the funding discrepancy that exist both in my own county and across the country must be even out as a matter of urgency . secondly , it be important not to forget the vital work do by further education college , such as East Coast College . for college , disadvantaged funding should be reform to include a specific block to support student with SEND who do not have high need . for high need funding in college , tariff should be set at level that will allow college to recruit and retain support staff . thirdly , it be all too easy to overlook the bespoke need of specialist further education college that provide education and skill training for those with SEND who be age 16 to 25 . at this stage , it be important to remember that special educational need and disability legislation require local authority to create a local offer from birth to age 25 for young people with SEND . specialist FE college play a vital role and , although they be publicly fund , they be not currently eligible for the capital revenue support to address RAAC — reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete . that inequality should be remove . finally , it be great news that a GCSE for British Sign Language be on the way , and I congratulate my constituent Ann and Daniel Jillings on all their campaigning work to make that happen . but there be an acute shortage of qualified teacher of the deaf to teach this new exam . the National Deaf Children ' s Society highlight the immediate need to train 200 more qualified teacher of the deaf . I hope that my hon . friend the Minister will keep that particular request in mind . in conclusion , there be a national crisis in SEN provision , and it be feel particularly badly in Suffolk . as a whole , we be badly let down large number of student , their family and their teacher . in that respect , I support the motion . a review of funding should take place without delay . I congratulate the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) on secure the debate and on the strength of his opening speech , which set out well the issue face across the country . many colleague have already outline the overall funding challenge face SEND service , so give the limited time I will focus on another aspect : the impact of delay in diagnosis and the wide opportunity for make an impact on this issue , which inevitably impact on the funding of it . it might be helpful to illustrate the issue be face by use the example of Barton Hill Academy in Torquay . I want to thank the principal , Samantha Smith , and her team for the work they do to inspire and educate so many of our next generation , particularly those with additional need . Barton Hill Academy have two classroom for student with additional need : one for young student with issue such as autism ; and another for slightly old student with mental health and behavioural issue . it deploy several staff member to support those student . many student be wait for a diagnosis through the NHS . the school have assign a member of staff to help support parent of child with autism through the process and to fill out the referral form , but it be still a difficult process . the delay in get an assessment and a diagnosis through the NHS , which be not directly relate to the education system , inevitably have an impact , because until there be a diagnosis there be not the ability to provide the service that be need or , in some case , to look at move to more appropriate provision . one key issue raise be that headteacher can be leave with a rather unenviable choice . they can keep someone with they who be clearly have an impact on the wide school , when the type of resource they have available be not suitable for they . that say , they know that the issue be not so much behaviour as the fact that the pupil concern have medical need that be not be meet and be await diagnosis . that can lead to the unenviable process of decide whether to exclude the pupil , which be far more suitable in the case of those with behavioural issue . in practical term , headteacher feel that that be the choice they must start to consider , give the impact on the wide school and the fact that it be not set up to deal with that pupil ' s need , but in moral term it be highly unlikely to produce the good outcome for the child . this really come back to the issue of get the assessment do and ensure that there can be a clear link between an NHS service and the impact for SEND . one family opt for private provision because they be tell that there be a three - year waiting list for an appointment with a paediatrician for an official assessment , which would have mean that their primary - school child would be at secondary school before they see any outcome from the assessment . the family pay £ 300 for a private diagnosis , but some local authority do not accept such diagnosis as a basis for educational provision . it be useful to discuss with Torbay Council the challenge that it face — although I welcome the improvement that have be make in the delivery of child ' s service in Torbay under a number of political party in recent year . council representative cite the impact of early intervention through family hub . we need to ask what provision there be when people start to home - educate their child , and I think some review could be carry out in that regard . we also need to ask what can be do about prioritisation in NHS list . rather than people work methodically through a backlog , there should be a point at which child who be in need of treatment but face potential exclusion from mainstream school could be prioritise for appointment that become available for the usual reason why an appointment might become available at short notice . I be interested to hear what the Minister can say about family hub funding beyond next year , and about what focus there will be on overall SEN skill across the wide teaching profession . senco be clearly important , but now that more child with additional need be in mainstream school , this be an issue that more teacher be encounter . there be also the question of 90 % attendance target in the context of funding , and how that can be gradate for those with fairly low attendance . finally , there be the need for co - ordination with the NHS . the debate have give we a welcome chance to discuss these issue , and , again , I congratulate my right hon . friend on secure it . like everyone else , I will start by congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) on secure this important debate . one of the key priority in my campaign to be elect to this place in 2019 be to give child in the Aylesbury constituency a brilliant start in life — and that mean all child , include and , indeed , especially those with special educational need and disability . I be pleased to say that there be several specialist SEND school in my constituency . I have have the privilege of visit many of they , include Pebble Brook and Booker Park , Chiltern Way Academy , and the independent Pace Centre . the work they do be awe - inspire , and I pay tribute to their staff , who constantly strive to give the child for whom they care the good possible opportunity and experience . too often , however , the family of the child with SEND feel that they be be leave to fight a ferociously complicated system to get their child into those school and ensure that they have the support they need . thankfully , they have local support from people in a similar position , include member of the GRASPS group , which be run by volunteer in Buckinghamshire , but they have tell I at length of their concern about delay in assessment , complexity in form - filling , and then the long wait for the ehcp about which we have hear so much this afternoon . the team at Buckinghamshire Council and I have discuss those concern to try to find way in which to help , and I know that the team be determined to do so , but it be no surprise that the council have highlight funding as a major challenge . as we have hear , the cost of SEND education can be exceptionally high , and it be not unusual for the cost of residential placement for child with the most complex and serious need to run to hundred of thousand of pound a year . the SEND Green Paper and the SEND and alternative provision improvement plan , publish in March 2023 , make clear the need to update the funding model . the Government be not ignorant to this , and I be pleased with their direction of travel . we have an excellent Minister to drive that forward in the month ahead . I be pleased that £ 10 billion of high need funding have be allocate for the come financial year , represent a cash - term increase of 12 % . it should be stress , and it have be , that high need block funding have nearly double in cash term since 2013 - 14 , which demonstrate this Government ' s commitment to help SEND pupil and their family . however , Buckinghamshire Council fare very poorly compare with many other local authority , with much low allocation of funding . the cost to all local authority of provide support for SEND pupil be increase dramatically , both because of the number of case and because of the complexity of need . locally , since 2016 , there have be a 101 % increase in request for ehcp . since 2020 , the unit cost for child ' s placement have increase by 30 % . as a result , Bucks Council be look at bring some provision in - house to try to contain some of the cost , but that can not happen overnight . in the meantime , it must try to find the extra money . member from all party will know that I have a profound interest in youth justice . have spend many year as a youth magistrate and as a member of the Youth Justice Board , I have always be strike by the disproportionate number of young people with SEND in the criminal justice system . accord to datum publish in 2022 by the Department for Education and the Ministry of Justice , 80 % of child caution or sentence for an offence have be record as have special educational need at some stage — 80 % . that be an appalling statistic . it can not be morally right that so many child with SEND wind up on the wrong side of the law and , all too often , behind bar . we must do more to give child with SEND the appropriate education and training so that they have the same potential to live law - abide life as their peer , and we must ensure that provision for those who unfortunately end up in the youth justice system be properly tailor and fund . I end on a positive note . many member of this House run an annual competition for local schoolchildren to design their Christmas card . for the past two year , I have do something slightly different . I have go out to local SEND school , one each year , to ask they to produce the design for my card , and the reason be very simple . all too often , child with special educational need be airbrush out or consider incapable of achieve the same as their peer , but I take a different view . I want local child with special need to be celebrate for what they achieve . I want they to be visible , and I want to give they a showcase in the local community . the simple act of get they to design my Christmas card have enable I to do that , and I thank the child at Booker Park School , who design my 2023 card , and the child at Chiltern Way Academy , who do it in 2022 . both card have excellent picture that carry real meaning . this emphasise that there be potential in every child , and we need to approach child with special educational need and disability with a spirit of optimism and positivity . I call the shadow Minister . I congratulate the right hon . member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) on secure this important debate , and I thank the Backbench Business Committee for allocate time . I pay tribute to the teacher , support staff , educational psychologist , speech and language therapist and all who work with child with special educational need and disability . I be grateful to every right hon . and hon . member who have contribute to today ' s debate . we have hear heartbreaking story from across the country of the desperate situation face the family of child with special educational need and disability , and we have also hear about the impact on local authority and professional of a system that simply be not work . the sheer number of contribution this afternoon speak to the magnitude of the issue and the depth of the crisis . we have hear from the hon . member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) , for Mansfield ( Ben Bradley ) , for Tewkesbury ( Mr Robertson ) , for Hastings and Rye ( Sally - Ann Hart ) , for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Steve Tuckwell ) and for Aylesbury ( Rob Butler ) , and from my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) and my hon . friend the Member for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) , about the funding crisis in SEND . we have hear from my hon . friend the Members for Harrow West ( Gareth Thomas ) and for Selby and Ainsty ( Keir Mather ) , and from the hon . member for Gedling ( Tom Randall ) , for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) and for Bracknell ( James Sunderland ) , about the pressure on school place . we have from the right hon . member for Romsey and Southampton North ( Caroline Nokes ) and for West Suffolk ( Matt Hancock ) , and from my hon . friend the Members for Leeds North West ( Alex Sobel ) , for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) and for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) , about the terrible battle that parent face . we have hear from the hon . member for South West Bedfordshire ( Andrew Selous ) , for Bracknell , for Waveney ( Peter Aldous ) and for Torbay ( Kevin Foster ) about the intolerably long wait that family face for diagnosis and ehcp . we have hear from the right hon . member for Rossendale and Darwen ( Sir Jake Berry ) and my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield , Hallam ( Olivia Blake ) about the intense shortage of staff to support child with special educational need and disability . we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Wansbeck ( Ian Lavery ) and other about the financial impact on family of a system that can not deliver the support that they need . after 13 year of conservative Governments , the system of support that child with SEND and their family rely on be beyond break point . far too many family of child with SEND face a battle for the support their child need . it be often a battle that have to be fight many time over throughout a child ' s life : a battle for recognition and diagnosis in the early year ; a battle for support in primary school ; another battle to find the right secondary school and ensure that support be put in place ; and a further battle to secure a place in further or high education . the consequence of this fail system be heartbreak for family ; precious child be make to feel that they be the problem ; and , ultimately , attainment of child with SEND go backwards . that leave family increasingly reliant on go to the court to get the support to which their child be entitle . it can not be and be not right that the Government ' s failure to provide an efficient court system be now ration access to the entitlement child have . we each get only one childhood , and support delay be support deny . this issue should be an urgent priority for the Government . the current system be fail child and their family , and it be an increasingly prominent factor in the number of council issue section 114 notice — in effect , declare bankruptcy — because they can no long balance their budget . this issue be on the national risk register for the Department for Education . so what have be the Government ' s response ? they delay their SEND review , first announce in 2019 , three time . much of the SEND and alternative provision improvement plan will not come into effect until 2025 , six year after the review be announce . during that time , 300 , 000 child with SEND will have leave secondary school have spend the entirety of their school education under an increasingly fail system of SEND support . the Childhood Trust have find that family of child with SEND be disproportionately affect by the cost of live crisis and be more likely to be live in poverty than family of child without SEND . that be in no small part drive by the great difficulty that family of child with SEND have in find a suitable childcare place throughout the early year ; for before and after - school care ; and , for old child , during the school holiday . we know that one in four parent across the board have have to give up work due to the cost of childcare , and the figure be much high for parent of child with SEND . our education and childcare system should deliver for every child in the country . child with SEND deserve so much well than the complacency and neglect they have suffer for the past 13 year , and the piecemeal , stick - plaster measure that be now be propose . labour believe in high and rise standard for every child . we will work with parent and carer , local authority , health service and professional to deliver for child with SEND . we will work to make mainstream school inclusive for child with SEND . we will ensure that teacher and support staff have the training they need to work with the diverse range of child who be in every classroom throughout the country . I be pleased to hear of the number of thing the hon . Lady be suggest , but will she also support my private Member ' s Bill to tackle the issue of school attendance ? I be grateful to the right hon . Lady for her intervention . she will know that it be not the protocol for Front Benchers , on either side of the House , to support private member ' Bills . she will also know that my colleague the shadow Education Secretary comprehensively set out this week the priority that labour place on school attendance and the package of measure we will put in place to start to improve a situation where we have a dire crisis across the country . the right hon . Lady be right to bring that issue forward through the mean available to she — her private Member ' s Bill — and I wish her success with her attempt to raise the priority of the issue and to seek action from the Government to address it . we will ensure that teacher and support staff have the training they need to work with the diverse range of child who be in every classroom across the country , with a new annual continue professional development entitlement . we will ensure school be inspect on their inclusivity as well as the attainment of child by change the ofsted inspection framework . we will roll out evidence - base speech and language intervention for the young child , because we know that unlock communication be an essential foundation for learn . we will increase mental health support in every school and we will join up record to reduce the exhausting battle parent face as they have to retell their child ' s story to every professional they meet . on that point , will the shadow Minister give way ? I will not . it have be a long debate and the Minister need to come in shortly . we will build an early education and childcare system that work for child and family , from the end of parental leave to the end of primary school . and we will put money back in parent ' pocket , with free breakfast club in every primary school , ensure no child have to start the school day hungry , and by place limit on the cost of school uniform . this government have be fail child and family for 13 long year . labour will put child first again and we will work to rebuild the support for child with special educational need and disability , which have be so badly break on this Government ' s watch . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) on secure the debate . I know how passionate he be about ensure that his constituent get what they should from the SEND system and ensure that his granddaughter , Chloe , get the support she need . he make a powerful case for both . before I go any far , I formally congratulate he on the announcement of his knighthood , which be a well - deserve honour for his decade of public service . by way of background , I be an MP in an f40 area , so I be familiar with the case the organisation make and I meet the group towards the end of last year . I have be child ' s Minister since the end of August , but in the two year before be appoint to that position , the issue of parent and teacher be unable to get the support they need for child with SEND be already in the top two item in my casework and surgery appointment . I pay my own tribute to all the staff support child with special educational need in school , college and alternative provision , both locally and nationally . the issue raise in the debate be very familiar to I . in previous debate , I have talk about parent have what they feel be a war of attrition with the system to try to get the support they need for their child . that be a war that any parent would wage , but no parent should have to . we know the system be not deliver consistent support and outcome and that there be significant financial pressure on it , despite considerable Government investment . I will begin with investment and funding , as that have be the big issue discuss this afternoon . as have be touch on , the Government have increase the high need budget considerably . in 2024 - 25 , it will be £ 10 . 5 billion , which be 60 % high than the figure in 2020 . in the past two year , there have be a 32 % increase in per head funding in the constituency of my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden . Most member would agree that that be a considerable amount of money , as my hon . friend the Member for Bracknell ( James Sunderland ) say in his speech . some member may only agree with that privately , but not many Government budget , under any Government or in any area , have increase by 60 % , which demonstrate the Government ' s considerable support for and commitment to the area . we have two programme support local authority that face financial pressure in their SEND system , and a number of member in the Chamber have local authority involve in those programme . first , the safety valve programme , which include 34 local authority with the high percentage deficit , help local authority pay down accumulate deficit and reform their system . by March 2025 , the Department will have allocate nearly £ 900 million through that programme , and if what we be try to deliver be deliver , those deficit will be eradicate . secondly , we have the deliver well value programme for those with substantial but less severe deficit , which involve 55 local authority , include East Riding of Yorkshire in the area of my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden . that be help to deliver high - quality outcome with sustainable cost . under that programme , each area develop a reform plan and receive £ 1 million to support its delivery . as have be touch on , the high need budget have double since 2015 , but even if a Government be able to triple or quadruple it , that would not by itself deliver the outcome we all want to see . parent and teacher know that and frequently say that the issue be not just about money . my hon . friend the Member for Mansfield ( Ben Bradley ) make that point well in his speech , and I intend to pick up with he the discussion about conflict priority . the system need reform , which be why we publish our SEND and alternative provision improvement plan last year , with the aim of get child and young people the right support , in the right place , at the right time . there be a lot within the plan , but I wish to draw out three key area briefly , because they be the one that have come up most this afternoon and be in the petition attach to this debate . first , on special school provision and capital funding , which be raise by the hon . member for Harrow West ( Gareth Thomas ) and other , we be make a £ 2 . 6 billion investment , £ 1 . 5 billion of which have already be allocate . that be on top of our delivery of new special and alternative provision free school . there be currently 106 special free school open and a further 78 have be approve to open in the future . secondly , on combat regional variation , the plan will move we towards a national system with national standard , which we have never previously have . across the country , we now have nine change programme partnership , which each have between two and four local area , together with local school , health service and parent . what they be do be , for example , test an EHCP template that we hope can be use nationally , which will improve the timeliness and quality of ehcp . we be develop national standard of support for special educational need , begin with one for speech and language , which will be release later this year . we be also publish a local and national inclusion dashboard , which parent will be able to access . they will be able to see how their local area be do , which will drive accountability . thirdly , my hon . friend the Member for Torbay ( Kevin Foster ) ask about the skill and knowledge of staff in mainstream school . our teacher standard already include clear expectation that teacher must understand the need of all pupil , include those with special educational need , but we be review the core content framework and the early career framework to improve their confidence in this area . we have a universal SEND service programme , which more than 11 , 000 staff have already access to improve their knowledge and skill . we be also fund the training of 7 , 000 early year staff with a level 3 senco qualification , as my hon . friend the Chair of the Education Committee say . some 5 , 200 staff have begin that training , so we be on track with that target . [ Official Report , 23 January 2024 , Vol . 744 , c . 3mc . ] there be many other point that I want to respond to , but I have only eight minute , so I will just say to my right hon . friend the Member for West Suffolk ( Matt Hancock ) and my hon . friend the Members for tewkesbury ( Mr Robertson ) , for South West Bedfordshire ( Andrew Selous ) , for Gedling ( Tom Randall ) , for Waveney ( Peter Aldous ) , for Aylesbury ( Rob Butler ) and other that I understand their point about regional variation . it be base partly on deprivation and other factor and partly on the historical spend factor that have be refer to . I be happy to sit down with anybody to talk about those thing . to the hon . member for Sheffield , Hallam ( Olivia Blake ) , I say that it be already the case that a school have to be outstanding in all area to receive an outstanding grade from Ofsted , and it be not the case that we have a 20 % target for reduce ehcp , or indeed any other such target . in conclusion , I reiterate my thank to my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden for secure this debate and to all member who have contribute to it . we may disagree on certain aspect of how to achieve this , but we be unite in our desire to ensure that the SEND system provide excellent outcome to all child and young people , and that be what this Government be determined to deliver . as we see early this week , clear injustice induce an extraordinary unity of purpose across the whole House . we have see a little of that this day , because we all want to give every child the well possible chance in life , irrespective of their circumstance when they be bear and thereafter . to that end , we have have some formidable speech from member on both side of the House . for I , the speech that crystallise the issue most clearly be that of my right hon . friend the Member for Romsey and Southampton North ( Caroline Nokes ) , who say that in 2014 we set out with the EHCP system to try to stop tired , frazzle parent have a never - end fight to get the right outcome for their child in our system . the EHCP system have not work . it have not deliver what we want because of the massive increase in demand and in complexity . the increase cost have overwhelm even the large increase in expenditure that the Government have provide . that be why we need the review of funding and of allocation , both individually and across region . the House have hear about my council in East Riding , which be the bad off , but we have hear about the unfairness of the system for individual too . on behalf of the support staff , who work hard than anybody I know , the teacher , the parent , who have the tough job there be , and of course the child , who we be here to give a decent life to , I commend the motion to the House . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House call for a review of funding for SEND provision . propose british jewish history Month I beg to move , that this House call for the creation of a british jewish History Month . I thank the Backbench Business Committee , which agree to the debate , and the more than 40 member of Parliament from across the House who sign my application . in particular , I thank the hon . member for East Renfrewshire ( Kirsten Oswald ) and my hon . friend the Member for Hastings and Rye ( Sally - Ann Hart ) for attend the Backbench Business Committee to support I . I think long and hard about the timing of the debate , particularly after the horrendous 7 October attack and the rise in antisemitism in this country , with an increase in antisemitism of over 1 , 300 % in London alone in the past year . we can not conflate british Jews with the state of Israel ; be a British Jew mean be a british citizen . that be really bring home to I when I meet a group of british jewish schoolchildren in November on behalf of my hon . friend the Member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Mike Freer ) . when I ask the teacher why 10 - year - old be wear baseball cap , he tell I that it be because they have to hide their kippah . I think , how can we get to a state where british child be hide their identity ? it make I think that we have to celebrate the british jewish community and thank they for the outstanding contribution that they have make to this country . I also thank Jonathan Abro , a constituent of mine , who also lead I to think that it be time to change the narrative about the british jewish community in this country . he be incense by Westminster City Council ' s newsletter on hate crime , which do not mention antisemitism . I know that the jewish community be interested in its own history — the jewish Historical Society of England be establish in victorian time — but it be now time for the whole nation to celebrate the history of our jewish friend and neighbour . the jewish community be such a small one : 280 , 000 british citizen identify as jewish in the 2021 census . that be 0 . 5 % of our population . compare that with the 6 . 5 % of Muslims and 1 . 7 % of Hindus . for a small minority , the impact the british jewish community have make in all walk of life in this country be outstanding , and that be why we need to establish a british jewish history month . Jews throughout the century have arrive in the UK flee persecution and murder in other country and have have to rebuild their life here . I be grateful to the hon . member for secure the debate . Jews have contribute hugely to this country over many century . in fact , over 200 have serve in this Chamber — 218 by my count , but that could be contest — include 70 Labour Members of Parliament . I will briefly give an example of one : Manny Shinwell be a trade unionist who serve here and in the other place until he be 101 and do great thing in the Atlee Government , show that we be right across the breadth and spread of the political establishment of the United Kingdom . I thank the hon . member for his intervention . I will make reference to jewish politician in my speech . Jews have often have to come to this country to rebuild their life , and that be bring home to I particularly when read Lord Danny Finkelstein ' s book , " Hitler , Stalin , Mum and Dad " . Danny ' s family history be sadly not unique but be a clear example of how two family rebuilt their life after suffer such trauma and whose member go on to make significant contribution to both jewish and british history , include the establishment of the Wiener Holocaust Library . british Jews have play key role and make major contribution over century in the field of business , science , the art and politic . in business , perhaps the most - love retail brand we have in this country be Marks & Spencer , establish by Michael Marks and Thomas Spencer . the large supermarket in this country be Tesco , found by Jack Cohen in 1919 . other business of note be the cinema chain Odeon , Moss Bros . and GlaxoSmithKline , all of which be start by jewish Brits and have provide so many job and so much prosperity for this country . in science , Rosalind Franklin be responsible for the discovery of the structure of DNA . Sir Ernst Chain be the co - developer of penicillin . Lord Robert Winston , now in the other place , pioneer fertility treatment that be responsible for goodness know how many child bear in this country and across the world . in the art , Michael Balcon co - found Ealing Studios , which be one of the most important british studio to this day . the Ealing comedy come from that studio and start the career of Sir Alec Guinness and Peter Sellers . Samuel Wanamaker rebuild the Globe theatre just down the river from we , which be perhaps one of the most important cultural contribution of the 20th century . Shakespeare ' s " the Merchant of Venice " be probably play there , which be another example of witness historical incident of antisemitism . Monty Norman write the James Bond theme , which be then rearrange by John Barry . actor of stage and screen be absolutely part of our establishment . one of my personal favourite be Dame Maureen Lipman , an outstanding actor but also a campaigner on ensure that antisemitism be understand . one british jewish male responsible for bring we all together every couple of year to sing and hopefully to bring football home be David Baddiel . obviously , the English Lionesses have bring football home ; we be still wait for the boy to do it , but I be sure they will eventually . turn to politic , the first jewish MP be Lionel de Rothschild , represent part of my seat — the City of London . Lionel first take his seat in 1847 , but it be not until the Jews Relief Act 1858 that he be recognise as a jewish MP . the first jewish peer be his son Nathaniel . Westminster City Council , where I be proud to be a councillor for 16 year , have be well serve by jewish councillor , both Labour and Conservative , over the decade , include council leader Dame Shirley Porter , Melvyn Caplan and latterly Sir Simon Milton , who be a major political influence on I as leader of Westminster City Council and later Boris Johnson ' s right - hand man at City Hall when he be Mayor of London . a British Jew who be probably responsible for the start of my political career be my right hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Robert Halfon ) , whom I meet in our first week at the University of Exeter . in the first conversation we ever have , he tell I I be a Conservative and I have to join the conservative party — and the rest be history . in my constituency , we have evidence of a jewish presence since Roman Britain . in Threadneedle Street , the Bank of England stand on the site of the London home of Aaron of Lincoln , a jewish banker who die in 1186 . those familiar with the city of London will have come across the street call Old Jewry , and the name be hardly a coincidence , because the Great Synagogue of London be base there until it close in 1272 , a few short year before the Jews of England be formally expel in 1290 by Edward I . it be only in 1656 , during the protectorate of Oliver Cromwell , that Jews be invite to return . while jewish community would subsequently flourish all over England and far afield in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland , I be proud that my constituency be once again the heart of the jewish renaissance in this country . it be home to Bevis Marks Synagogue , which be build in 1781 and be the old synagogue in continuous use in Europe today . the first jewish Lord Mayor be Sir David Salomons in 1855 . ten of thousand of jewish soldier fight bravely in both the first and second world war . five jewish soldier have receive the Victoria Cross and even now , every year the Association of Jewish Ex - Servicemen and Women hold a Remembrance Day parade at the Cenotaph on the Sunday after the official Remembrance Day . have research this topic , I could speak for hour on the contribution make by individual jewish people but I want to pinpoint one person who I think have make the most significant contribution in this country over decade : Dame Esther Rantzen . she start so many incredible campaign and have make a huge impact on my life , start with she " that ' s life ! " programme , where in the early ' 80 she highlight the Ben Hardwick campaign , encourage more people to consider organ donation . I carry an organ donor card because of that campaign . her seatbelt campaign see the law change to make sure that child would be wear seatbelt in the back of car ; I note that the Father of the House be in his place , and I know he play a significant part in that campaign . perhaps the most significant campaign that Dame Esther have be involve in since be Childline , lift the lid off the heinous crime of child abuse and give child victim a voice . the work that she have do on Childline , which be now run by the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children , have change the way we deal with child social service as well and make a significant difference to many child ' s life . she have since move on to the Silver Line , outline the loneliness that so many old people suffer , and be try to help to change their life . the new film " one Life " tell the story of the Kindertransport , set up by Nicholas Winton , and one scene in the film show " that ' s life ! " , where all the survivor stand up and thank he . one of those survivor be one Susie Lind , the grandmother of one of my close friend , Daniel Astaire . Dame Esther be now sadly at the end of her life , but she have not stop campaign , and with her assisted die campaign she be try to make sure we all have a good death . I pay tribute to she and thank she on behalf of the whole nation for her outstanding contribution over the past 50 year . it be perhaps no coincidence that today be Rosh — I be go to get this wrong — [ hon . member : " Chodesh . " ] Rosh Chodesh , the new lunar month . it be an important day of renewal in the jewish faith and the jewish month of Shevat begin today . one of the great verse from the 15th day of Shevat , speak by Moses , go as follow : " remember the day of old , consider the year of age past ; ask your parent who will inform you , your elder who will tell you . " it be therefore fitting to debate the merit of a british jewish history month . we rightly already celebrate the achievement of many minority in this country , and continue to educate future generation , through Black History Month , LGBT History Month , Pride and Islamophobia Awareness Month . the United States establish jewish American Heritage Month nearly two decade ago , and I believe it be now time we remind ourselves of the remarkable contribution that the jewish community have make to our nation , often after suffer the great hardship , and to celebrate the value of difference . it be time we use the achievement of the british jewish community to remind ourselves of the value we all share and remind ourselves that this small minority be british . I hope the Government will take that on board and consider introduce a british jewish history month . we will start with a time limit of six minute but that will rapidly decrease to five minute . anyone who want to complain can ask their colleague to leave , because that be the only way they will get any more time . I call Fabian Hamilton . it be a privilege to speak in this debate , which be open so well by the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) . I thank she and her colleague for secure the debate . I be proud to represent the constituency with the large jewish population in Yorkshire , and indeed on the entire east side of the United Kingdom . for over 150 year , jewish people in Leeds have contribute so much to our city ' s culture , economy and society . they stand at the frontline of the battle against Oswald Mosley ' s fascist in the Battle of Holbeck Moor in 1937 , and have often be at the forefront of our local political history across the city . the jewish community in Leeds have a fantastic history , and it be go from strength to strength in 2024 . that be thank in no small measure to the hard work and dedication of everyone in the community , but I thank in particular the Leeds jewish Representative Council and the jewish Leadership Council for their work to strengthen and represent the jewish community in my constituency , as well as for the fruitful relationship that we have enjoy for many decade , especially under the current leadership of Simon Myerson KC and Laurence Saffer , who have do a brilliant job . in Leeds , we have Reform and Orthodox synagogue , flourish kosher bakery and butcher , and the world - renowne Marjorie and Arnold Ziff community centre . for more than 100 year , the Leeds Jewish Welfare Board and the Leeds Jewish Housing Association have support at least 20 % of the jewish community in Leeds , provide mental health support , residential care for people with learn disability , practical help for struggle family and much more . give the current cost of living crisis , that work could not be more important than it be today . I want also to reflect on the legacy of a woman I have the privilege of know as a close friend for many year : Sheila Saunders , who die nearly 10 year ago . she be chief executive of the welfare board and the housing association , and , along with her friend Elaine Grazin , help to find in the 1980 the Leeds jewish Women ' s aid , the only specialist organisation in the United Kingdom support jewish woman and child affect by domestic abuse and sexual violence . I still miss Sheila every single day . the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster mention Danny Finkelstein ' s book , which I be proud to be read at the moment have be give a copy of it . it reflect in many way the story of my own family . I hope the House will indulge I as I use my last three minute to tell a little about my family ' s history , which , in many way , sum up the history of the jewish people in this country — the british Jews , as the hon . Member say early . my father , Mario Reynaldo Uziell , come to this country in 1934 to escape the increase persecution of Jews across Europe . at the time , his family live in the Hague , but they move very quickly to Paris . they live in several major city throughout Europe , and my father himself be bear in Vienna . when , at the age of 12 , he arrive at Brentwood School — a boarding school in Essex — he could not speak a word of English , but he master it very quickly . so much so that , by 1942 , when he have be in the country for only eight year and still have portuguese citizenship , he volunteer for the British Army . however , because his first language be french , the Special Operations Executive nab he and say , " you ' re a french speaker ; we need you to help the resistance in France . " that be dangerous for a jewish man , but he volunteer to do it none the less . I do not know what part he play in the resistance . I know about his training , but he never speak about his experience in occupy France — probably for very good reason , and certainly because he have sign the Official Secrets Act . I still have the document that my father sign in 1948 pledge his allegiance to King George VI so that he could become a naturalise british citizen . there be an example of somebody who start his life as a continental Jew speak French , whose family originate in Bulgaria , the Ottoman empire and Thessaloniki — then know as Salonika , where my grandfather be bear — but who proudly become an Englishman . he never have an accent — he learn English early enough to avoid speak with any accent , unlike both of my grandparent , one of whom have a French accent and the other a german accent . on my mother ' s side of the family , we have a very proud connection to the late Rabbi Jonathan Sacks , whose Aunt Rose be also my Aunt Rose — Rose Goldberg . she live until the end of her life — she die only about 15 year ago — in Brondesbury Park , which be very near where I grow up in Willesden . finally , before my time be up , I want to pay tribute to some of the holocaust survivor who find their home here in Britain , especially three of my constituent , one of whom be no long alive . one of they be Trude Silman , who be 95 this year . Trude escape from Bratislava to come to the city of Leeds , and she because the first woman to qualify with a biochemistry degree from the University of Leeds . she be still as clear and articulate as she ever be — a very active mind . the second be Arek Hersh , who be in the polish ghetto in Ł ó d ź and be take to the concentration camp , and be finally release from Auschwitz when he be 16 year old . the third be Iby Knill , who write two excellent book but sadly pass away just two year ago . along with the many holocaust survivor , they contribute to our collective knowledge of Judaism here in the United Kingdom . they be proud british Jews . after the Father of the House , the time limit will go down to five minute , which we will have to enforce strictly , or else not everybody will have the chance to speak . it be an honour to follow the hon . member for Leeds North East ( Fabian Hamilton ) , and I thank he for what he have do . he remind I of the book write by our former colleague Tristram Hunt about the original champagne socialist , the communist Friedrich Engels , and the life that people have in his part of the world as well as in north London . I also commend the book by Hadley Freeman , " House of Glass " , which be three year old ; it be about how her family come to survive and what their life have be like . be we to be have a debate on the history of Muslims , Hindus or Sikhs in this country , I think we would have the same kind of attendance . what be different about jewish history be what be put to I by one of my constituent after 7 October : " why do they keep pick on we ? " there be 16 million Jews in the world , of whom about a quarter of a million be in this country . their contribution have be magnificent , and not just those who be know . in my previous job — some time back — I put neon light outside theatre and cinema in the west end . one day , our painter ask whether he could have a day off . I say , " of course " and ask why . when he say that his mother have die , I ask whether I could come to the funeral . he burst into tear , because he do not know that anybody else know that he be jewish , and he be overcome by the idea that someone would volunteer to come to that kind of family event . I be shock that someone in my country could feel like that . my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) , whom I thank for introduce the debate , mention Esther Rantzen . I have not actually know that Esther Rantzen be jewish until I go to her wedding — see Desmond Wilcox try to become jewish , in term of music , dance and everything else , be amazing . however , it be not just the significant people we need to consider . when I go on almost a pilgrimage to Gallipoli to see the grave and name of the people from my constituency who have die , I keep come across memorial to Jews who have serve in our armed force . the same thing apply in every walk of life , whether notable or just notice if we keep our eye open . one of the reason why I have support the proposal of the national holocaust memorial commission to have a memorial and a learn centre , and the stipulation by the UK Holocaust Memorial Foundation that the majority of the money should be spend on education , be that since that proposal first come out , I have gain by know how many of my grandfather ' s extended family die in the holocaust . we think it be 11 , but that figure go up to 60 , and it be now well over 100 . that be the kind of education that matter . I hope that my grandchild and great - grandchild — if there be some — will learn about our history and how inclusive it be , and how it be chance that allow some people to go on and put down root , while other do not get that chance because of ideology or the murderous habit of too many people . I also want my child and grandchild to know about the way Jews have be treat in this country over the past 800 year or so , which have not be good and have not be easy . I remember every time I go to church that Jesus be not a white Englishman who belong to the Church of England . we have to remember our share history and try to adjust the way we work together , and I do not just want to talk about the abrahamic faith , because the same thing apply to other faith that have different tradition and different origin . our future be together , and the soon we learn what we can about each other and what we share , the well . have say that , my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster mention Sir Simon Milton . I have be to two — well , more than two — jewish funeral , but I go up to the Bushey New cemetery when the bone be discover in the Imperial War museum , and its location can not even be show for fear that it will be attack , and when I go to the service for Sir Simon Milton , that also have to have strict security . at one of those funeral , a member of the Community Security Trust come up to I and say , " you ' re Peter Bottomley , " and when I reply that I be , he say , in word that I can hardly say , " you ' re one of the people why I believe it ' s safe to remain in this country . " if we can defend each other , we can do well together . the motion that have be so ably put before the House today pose the question of the potential merit of a jewish history month . potential merit ? we have already hear some wonderful story . this be not about merit ; this be a necessity . we must have such a thing so that we can promote learning , as the Father of the House say , as well as understanding and historical knowledge , because it be through an understanding of the historic place that the wonderful contribution many jewish citizen have make across these island that we will ensure that the hatred and antisemitic attitude that have prevail too often will be do away with . so I commend the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) for move this motion , and I say , " yes , absolutely ; we must have such a month . " the Holocaust Educational Trust , which have be cite by member already , have demonstrate how necessary historical knowledge of the torture and persecution of the holocaust be for the child of today . take forward that lesson , let we therefore apply it in this way . many people today have proudly boast of the great contribution that jewish people have make , and not only in their own life and those of their own constituency , but across this country . the President of Israel be Isaac Herzog , who I think previously hold three ministerial post . his father , Chaim Herzog , who be the sixth President before he , be bear in Cliftonville Avenue in Belfast . his father , Rabbi Herzog , who live in Dublin , be know , believe it or not , as the Sinn F é in rabbi because he be so in favour of the new D á il É ireann that have be create , and he be recognise as such . it hurt my heart today to see the horrible attitude that some people — I just say some people — from a republican background now have towards the jewish people and towards the state of Israel . so strong be the history of the jewish tradition within the history of the Irish that some of the found father of the israeli state actually hail from Ireland , both north and south , and they have make a wonderful contribution . indeed , in our own history , in our great shipbuilding heritage of Harland and Wolff , guess who Mr Wolff be . he be a prominent jewish politician from Belfast , and he make a wonderful contribution . he be a close friend of Sir Otto Jaffe , a lead politician and twice Lord Mayor of Belfast . he be also president of the Belfast Hebrew congregation , and he serve our country so well . let we embrace that remarkable history . rather than hide it under a bushel , we must let it shine , so that people can understand that the rich tapestry of the Christian , the Hebrew and the arabic heritage that pertain on these island be strong and must be encourage for all to see , so that we can understand our future . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate , and I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) for secure it . I agree with everything that have be say so far on the need for we to have a jewish history month . as other have say , the history of Jews in Britain be wind up in the history of this county , and at time , sadly , it be a complex history . in my region of Yorkshire , that be clearly demonstrate by the two city near to I , one of which I grow up in . People will remember the 1190 massacre of Jews in the City of York , but York have a thriving jewish community today . the history of Jews in York be also see in place name such as Jewbury , where my ancestor live . in more recent decade , the relationship have be complicate . we see it now in the rise in antisemitism , but in my birth city , Hull , we have the battle of Corporation Field in 1936 , when Mosley and his British Union of Fascists turn up to be meet by a crowd of 10 , 000 people who , I be proud to say , be mainly there to see they off , and that be indeed what happen . I will talk today about the contribution make by Jews from the City of Hull and Hull ' s place in jewish history more broadly . today , the jewish community in Hull be small , but its contribution to jewish history be significant , especially in the role the city play in the transmigration of Jews flee eastern Europe at the end of the 19th century , who pass through Hull largely on their way to North America . so many come to Hull that the city be market as Britain ' s cheap port . now , we in the Humber do not like to think of ourselves as cheap , but that be what we be at the time . it be estimate that over 2 . 2 million emigrant pass through the City of Hull in the century before 1914 , and 100 , 000 through our fellow Humber port of Grimsby . Most be pass through on their way to North America or to other city , such as Leeds and Manchester , but a small number remain in Hull . at its height , the jewish population of Hull account for 1 % of its people , but they have a huge impact on the life of the city . let I talk briefly about the public life of some of hull ' s jewish people . between 1856 and 1983 , Hull have two jewish mayor , seven jewish lord mayor , and a jewish leader of the council , who serve effectively from 1945 until 1979 . this be a very consensual debate , but here I must disagree slightly with my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster , who talk about her city as the part of the county where Jews have have the most impact . hull newspaper editor Arthur Tidman write in the 1940 : " there be no town , no city of the UK where Jews have be more closely identify with public life or where their natural ability have be more freely exercise to the advantage of the community . it be doubtful if any other city can equal the record of Hull in the number of jewish citizen who have fill the high civic office . " chief among those individual be Alderman Sir Leo Schultz , the labour leader of Hull Council from 1945 to 1979 . he be elect to the council in 1926 . prior to that , he have win a scholarship to Oxford , but be tell that he could not attend because of his background , so he take his fight into politic . he have the foresight before the war to build bomb shelter , in opposition to the Government at the time , who in the end relent and pay for the shelter to be build . People who be bomb out of their home on the second night of bombing in 1941 , include my grandma , might not have survive be it not for Sir Leo ' s foresight . he have such an impact on our city , remain as leader of the council until 1979 , be knight and go on to become an alderman . there be a statue of he in the city , and he be just one of a number of individual , include former mayor Henry Feldman and Alderman John Symons , who have have a huge impact on public life , and not only in our city but in our country . it be an honour to follow the hon . member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) and a pleasure to take part in this debate . I thank the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) for secure it , particularly at this moment . as it come at a time when we be acutely aware of the critical growth in antisemitism in this country , it would be tempting to focus on that issue alone , but as serious as antisemitism be , I do not think it be the sole reason why we should be think about a british jewish history month . when I start to think about this debate , I do not realise how limited my appreciation be of the contribution that the jewish community have make to the rich , diverse culture that we enjoy across the UK . yes , I be aware of most of the entertainment and industrial figure who have already be mention . on the political figure , who could not be aware of Manny Shinwell , our liberal leader Herbert Samuel and other who have grace this place , such as Malcolm Rifkind ? one of my favourite author , if I may focus on Scotland for a minute , be Edinburgh ' s own Muriel Spark , who give we some real gem , include the unique " the Prime of Miss Jean Brodie " . Spark be among the cr è I de la cr è I of not just british but international literature , and what a contribution she make . I do not know that my own alma mater , the University of Glasgow , be groundbreake when , in 1787 , Levi Myers graduate without have to take a christian oath . that attract an influx of student to Scotland . the majority of Scotland ' s jewish community continue to live in and around Glasgow . many of they be descend from those who come here to escape the russian pogrom in the 1880 . it be apparently cheap to live in Glasgow in those day than it be in Edinburgh , and I have absolutely no comment to make about the current situation in the housing market . a few hardy soul have make it across to our side of Scotland over the year . indeed , in Scotland , the history of jewish community can be trace back to Edinburgh in 1691 , when the minute of Edinburgh town council record the application of David Brown , a profess Jew , to reside and trade in the city , and 1816 see the founding of the first formal jewish community in Edinburgh , of around 20 family . in 1825 , a tenement in Richmond Court in Newington be acquire and become a synagogue with 67 seat . by 1900 , the community have reach around 500 . in 1909 , the Edinburgh University jewish society be found . it be the old in Scotland and possibly in Britain , and it be currently the fast growing . sadly , my more recent interaction with the jewish community have be as a result of the rise tide of antisemitism . I meet Rabbi Rose in a pub near that synagogue in Newington to discuss how I can support our local community . I have do a tour of north London with the CST and hear heartbreake tale from jewish schoolchildren of the antisemitism they face on an all too regular basis . I meet Lord John Mann to discuss his report on antisemitism in the UK , and last year I present a Bill to try to force social medium company to report on action take against the abuse of people with protect characteristic , which would include religion . to return to my original point , antisemitism should be a problem that we overcome , like Islamophobia and every other form of religious , racial or personal discrimination . it should never be the dominant or only factor when we take into account what our jewish community have contribute to our history , but to do that fully and properly and to value that contribution , we need to set aside some time — a month , each year — to mark it , celebrate it and record it , to ensure that come generation know about it . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) and to speak in this debate about jewish community and the merit of have a jewish history month . both , of course , have great merit . recent event alone exemplify why history be so important . as I think Winston Churchill say , those who ignore history be condemn to repeat it . one of the thing that characterise jewish community around the world , as well as in the United Kingdom , be hope . indeed , the israeli national anthem be call " Hatikvah " — the hope , and it be not an exuberant or jingoistic melody ; in fact , it be a rather melancholy , move tune that somehow reflect its message of hope rather than jubilation , as many national anthem do . rather than speak about the jewish community , as many member on both side of the House have do , I would like to speak , as it be , to the jewish community . some week ago , I speak about why there be cause for hope , despite the increase in antisemitism , and I would like to continue on that theme . I say to the jewish people of the United Kingdom , and indeed any listening , that many civilisation who have persecute the Jews have rise and then fall ; the Jews continue to thrive . one need only to look at the Arch of Titus in Rome to see how empire come and go and rise and fall . the arch be build 2 , 000 year ago by the Romans under Emperor Domitian to celebrate the destruction of the temple at Jerusalem — it depict the plundering of that temple — but , just a few week ago , that arch , celebrate the destruction of the Jews , be light up in the colour of the israeli flag by the Government of Italy to mark the pogrom of 7 October . there be many reason to be hopeful . we should ignore the hater in community around the world who have clearly be responsible for the massive increase in antisemitism . we should ignore the hater on university campus who be bully jewish child . I have hear from those young people who be frighten even to go on campus . eventually , some of those account will become widely know , and they will shock the nation . we should ignore those in the international community , and even in the United Nations organisation , where frankly there be blatant example of antisemitism and where , just before Christmas , Iran be select to sit on the Human Rights Council . we should instead celebrate those who be do so much ; those who be agent of peace and reconciliation whom we do not hear enough about . we should applaud man like the Bedouin — not a jewish man — Youssef Ziadna , a minibus driver who save 30 life from the Nova festival in Israel by respond to a call to pick up a customer from that event . he drive into Hamas ' s attack and drive out with a minibus full of jewish people . they be alive because of he . we should applaud the hero Rami , whom I meet in Israel a few day ago , who save over 700 life by drive to and for , into that war zone , to rescue people . we should applaud people such as the Crown Prince of Bahrain , who say : " what Hamas do on 7 October be a war crime and an atrocity , and it be important to get all the … abductee out of Gaza " . it be not easy for some leader — arab leader especially — to say those truth ; that be a true leader . there be also the Emiratis . Ali Rashid al - Nuaimi , a top Emirati official , say that the Abraham accord " be our future . it be not an agreement between two government , but a platform that we believe should transform the region " . that be an heroic statement . there be also the Saudi Defence Minister , Khalid bin Salman , who visit the White House and reaffirm his country ' s interest in pursue the Abraham accord . that be real courage and real leadership — thing that the jewish community should and will value in this country and around the world . we should applaud our own political leader on all side — this be not a partisan issue — for stand up and do the right thing in the face of dissent . we have of course a great hero in our sovereign the King , who can influence event . he have long - stand personal relationship , a love of the arab culture and a deep interest in the muslim religion , but in fact he have the Chief Rabbi as a guest before his coronation so that he be able to walk there as it be the Sabbath . hero come in many form ; hope come through many route . I thank the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) for set the scene so well . I declare an interest , as a friend of Israel . my comment will reflect the support for that wee nation with a big heart , much like Northern Ireland . Northern Ireland be a case in point , show not just the importance of the contribution make by the jewish community to the social , cultural and economic life of the Province , but the interest in the history of contribution from the wide community . since its inception , the Belfast jewish heritage project have attract hundred of people on its guide walking tour in Belfast city centre . the tour include familiar site in Belfast with a jewish connection , some of which people bear and breed in Belfast have no idea about . for example , the old library in the city , the Linen Hall library , be originally the linen warehouse of a textile company call Moore and Weinberg . the Jaffe fountain in Victoria Square be name after Daniel Joseph Jaffe , the founder of the Belfast jewish community and the father of the only jewish Lord Mayor of Belfast , Sir Otto Jaffe , as my hon . friend the Member for North Antrim ( Ian Paisley ) mention . in 2021 , the Belfast jewish heritage project be award a grant of £ 10 , 000 from the share history fund , commemorate the centenary of Northern Ireland . the share history fund be fund by the Northern Ireland Office and administer by the national lottery . a lasting legacy of that grant be the interactive online jewish heritage map of Northern Ireland , which tell the jewish story of more than 70 location right across Northern Ireland . we have much jewish history in Northern Ireland , and that be by no mean an exhaustive list of the wonderful connection . I think of McGill ' s farm on Drumfad Road in Millisle in my Strangford constituency , which be use to house child rescue from Nazi Germany , as another place of interest . the Kindertransport child come through there . it be clear that a jewish history month in Northern Ireland would have no shortage of material and story , and would have a great deal of support from across the community . I can only imagine the scale of replication in other community across this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , as we become aware of how intrinsically link the people of the jewish faith be to the fabric of our british culture . that be key in this debate , for which the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster set the scene . they be part of what we be as british people , and we should welcome they , as the Leader of the House say in her excellent contribution early today . the content for the month be there . there be also a need for people to understand the connection between we all . in Northern Ireland I be painfully aware of the problem with identity politic and forget the connection that bind we . as one person who be on the jewish heritage walk in Belfast put it , it be amazing to have an hour - long history tour of Belfast that be not about Protestants and Catholics . sadly , there be good cause to enhance an appreciation and understanding of jewish contribution to Northern Ireland , as it be not immune from the surge of antisemitic incident and attitude record by the Community Security Trust . there have be so much , go back to 2014 , include attack by vandal , desecrate headstone and the blue plaque to Chaim Herzog be remove . all the thing that have happen between Belfast and Israel represent a remarkable connection . just over a century ago , Belfast have a future israeli President , Chief Rabbi and Foreign Minister live in it . disgracefully , the disuse jewish section of the city cemetery have be repeatedly desecrate and vandalise . I would welcome a jewish history month , because it would increase awareness among the general population of the remarkable place of the jewish community in our society , challenge antisemitic stereotype and myth , and inject confidence and pride for the jewish community itself . the jewish people be not some sect to be observe , but a part of we — the good of British . that should be understand and emphasise not simply for a month but on an ongoing basis until these people cease to be ostracise or hate simply because they worship God in a different way from someone else . they be a people use to persecution , but that do not make it right . they have hope in God — the same God that I worship — but let they find hope in this place as we highlight the wonderful good that have be do and be still to come from those who be british and worship their God with dignity and respect , in no way offensive to any other person or religion . I do not have time to quote psalm 27 , but I recommend that member read it afterwards , because it will tell they all about the israeli people and how their God look after they . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) for secure the debate . early this week , I lead a Westminster Hall debate on the appalling rise of antisemitism we have see in the UK since the 7 October attack . that debate be sadly necessary give the circumstance , but I be glad that today we have the opportunity for a much more positive debate to acknowledge the enormous contribution of the jewish community here in the UK . I wish to open my remark by recognise the jewish community in the west midland , some of whom I meet in the week follow the awful event in Israel on 7 October . many in the jewish community have personal connection to those directly affected . their strength and bravery in the face of terror have be commendable , and today I reaffirm my commitment to stand with the community in their hour of need . at Singers Hill synagogue in Birmingham , I meet Rabbi Jacobs who tell I how the jewish community stand with the muslim community in the wake of the attack on innocent Muslims in the day after 9 / 11 . the late Rabbi Tann visit the Imam at Birmingham central mosque at the time to show solidarity , lead to the formation of Birmingham Faith Leaders ' Group , which continue to this day . Rabbi Tann ' s gesture be reciprocate in the wake of last year ' s attack , with the Imam visit Singers Hill synagogue for a Friday night service , alongside other faith leader , to show support for the local jewish community . this be a more recent development in the history of the jewish community in the west midland , but one that they be proud of . Most know that Birmingham have a long tradition of thrive jewish community , but most be not aware that Wolverhampton once have one too . thank to the jewish Genealogical Society of Great Britain , which have pull together year of record , we know more about that community . in Wolverhampton , the building of the synagogue still stand , but today it be a church . in 1858 , after the community have collect £ 300 , they build Wolverhampton synagogue , which be open by Chief Rabbi Dr Adler . in 1903 , after a fire , it be rebuild by a local architect . when the community stop grow and number reduce , the congregation merge with Singers Hill synagogue . today , we have five active synagogue in the region , all contribute to the community and promote understanding , tolerance and harmony between people of different faith in our area . they open their door to thousand of child each year to learn more about Judaism and , commendably , they organise donation to charity help to provide for those in need . it be only right to pay tribute to some of our local rabbi : Rabbi Jacobs , Rabbi Hambling and Rabbi Pink . like all religious leader , they inspire their community . they be their support and their guide . they be there for advice , celebration and difficult time , too . it be not just religious leader who do so much for other . Ruth Jacobs be a perfect example of that , through organisation such as the west midland jewish representative council , which she chair , as well as the Nisa - Nashim group , an interfaith forum for jewish and muslim woman to bridge the divide and discuss their cultural and religious similarity . Ruth ' s commitment to the community extend to her role as chair of the West Midlands Friends of Israel and her work with the local police and political leader . she also run the local Hillel House , which provide housing and support for jewish student , and host many social and religious event . it be people like Ruth who make the west midland community so warm and friendly , while play their part in make the region a well place for all community . it be not possible to mention all the contribution the jewish community in the west midland make to our region and across the country , but I will try to fit in a few more . the King David School in Birmingham be a beacon of light in the west midland . it be a jewish primary school which welcome all faith and have a majority of muslim student . I would like to mention Mindu Hornick MBE , a holocaust survivor who settle in Birmingham with her family . she have give her testimony of the holocaust to thousand of people across the country and have speak in countless school in our region . many holocaust survivor like Mindu be selfless in the work they do and we owe they a great deal . she be one of the many UK - base survivor who have give their testimony in conjunction with the Holocaust Educational Trust . Chai Cancer Care be a London - base charity that offer 67 specialised support service to cancer patient around the country , include in the west midland . it provide advice , counselling , physiotherapy and other support service from Stirchley in Birmingham . I visit its headquarters in Hendon last year with the jewish Leadership Council and it be incredible . there be many other jewish organisation that sit under the umbrella of the JLC that all do incredible work , include jewish Women ' s aid , United jewish Israel Appeal and the Union of jewish student . those be just some of the example of the contribution of the jewish community in the west midland and across the country . in the west midland , we be incredibly diverse . I have one of the most diverse constituency in the country . the jewish community in the west midland be small than elsewhere , but it well and truly punch above its weight . as I have give example of today , the Black Country also have a proud history of jewish community . a jewish history month would be the perfect opportunity to educate other about the history of the community that we may not otherwise know about , as well as celebrate the enormous contribution the community make today . I again thank my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster for secure the debate today . a point that I have make on many occasion be that all too often , public understanding of the jewish community and the issue that matter to we will be limit to antisemitism and the UK ' s relationship with Israel , and knowledge of jewish history will largely be limit to the holocaust . that be not for a second to diminish the importance of those three topic , but to make the case for the fact that jewish history , jewish culture and tradition and the jewish contribution to Britain constitute a much rich tapestry , and we can all benefit from a much deep understanding of it . within the jewish community in the UK be represent a mixture of different denomination , ethnic and cultural background , practice , history and language — and , of course , two of my favourite feature of that jewish diversity : the food and the old adage of " two Jews , three opinion " . with all this to teach and share , our community , tiny in size relative to the population of the UK and the globe , can not be expect to undertake our endeavour to bring great awareness alone . I think it might be illustrative for the House if , in demonstrate that every part of british history and culture be also jewish history and culture , I bring together two seemingly unrelated part of my parliamentary work to highlight the jewish contribution . as a British Jew and , of course , a member of the all - party parliamentary group relevant to our community , I be also a vice - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on wrestling . thank to the historian Bradley Craig , I know of " jewish Flash " Al Lipman from Aldgate , who be an immensely popular lightweight wrestling star in the 1940 . in the wake of the war , there be a major show in Manchester in aid of jewish charity , in which the " good guy " , who be jewish , defeat the " bad guy " , who be portray a Nazi . more recently , we have see the jewish global wrestling star Noam Dar , who hail from Ayr in Scotland , wrestle for World Wrestling Entertainment — perform for million across the world — and have win the NXT heritage cup . he even once wrestle at a jewish lad ' and girl ' Brigade camp in Essex , an event organise by , among other , Neil Martin and Robert Rams , two jewish wrestling fan . Dar be follow in the main event of the second ever JLGB wrestling extravaganza by Simon Miller , who host the show of the UK independent promotion Progress , but have also wrestle across the country . other british wrestler and former wrestler with jewish link include " the Chutzpah " Lior Ben - David , Aviv Maayan and Max " Voltage " Olesker , of the comedy duo Max & Ivan — of course , there be numerous british comedian who be jewish or have jewish root . british Jews be also proudly involve in other area of the wrestling world . example be WWE ' s head of external affair , tna ' s pr man , all Elite Wrestling ' s press lead — although he be in the United States — the global jewish wrestling superstar MJF , and the ring announcer Justin Roberts . Israel ' s well - know wrestling promoter , Gery Roif , come to Britain and visit the House recently . there be other here at home , such as Emily Read , co - founder of the all - woman ' s promotion Pro - Wrestling : Eve , and Adam Cailler , who write about wrestle for the Daily Star follow his stint at the jewish Telegraph . there be also the wrestling photographer Oli Sandler , and Danny Stone , the secretariat to both the all - party parliamentary group against antisemitism and the APPG on wrestling , be well know across the House both for his expertise in antisemitism and in wrestling . while small in number , british Jews have certainly make an impact on wrestle here in the UK and overseas . in the hope that this will be the kind of debate that we will see much more in the future , I will not go through all the APPGs and committee in which I take part through a jewish lens , although that would demonstrate the number of area in the jewish contribution to british life — of which there be so many , beyond those that be establish or widely understand — that a jewish history month could explore . indeed , what have become a run joke with my friend Jonny Newton — occur on so many occasion that I worry that we be will it into reality — be the idea of start a podcast call " Spicy Talmud " , in which we would explore the volume - collect century of rabbinic discussion on not just every single worthy topic one could possibly conceive of , but the more esoteric question and the sometimes bizarre story that be recount about whistle frog , weasel bring chametz from house to house , snake go where they shouldn ' t , and wine - drink she - dog . thankfully , for everyone ' s sake , I think it safe to say that we be both far too busy for the foreseeable future , but perhaps there be another way in which the kind of love that we both have , and our wide community have , for Jewishness , and our pride in be part of the jewish story , can be bring to as wide an audience as possible so we can all share in it together — and what well way to start than with a dedicated jewish history month ? it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Warrington North ( Charlotte Nichols ) , not least because she have improve my knowledge of wrestle from absolutely nothing to slightly more than nothing . I celebrate all those jewish star of the wrestling world , just as I celebrate all those individual whom my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) and other have list from the world of entertainment , politic , industry and many more . I be delighted to say that the jewish population of Buckinghamshire be grow — it grow by 7 % between the 2011 and 2021 census . I stand shoulder to shoulder with the community , which I be proud to represent . I want to see it thrive and go from strength to strength . notwithstanding the powerful comment that have be make about try to ignore the hater , as my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) say , we have to acknowledge that jewish community in Buckinghamshire and across the country be hurt right now . I be privileged to join the south Buckinghamshire jewish community at a Hanukkah event at Waddesdon Manor in my constituency in December , lead by the wonderful Rabbi Neil Janes . his opening word during the short ceremony really shock I . he say , " we no long feel confident to gather as a community . " that be in the United Kingdom in 2023 . of course , every community should be confident to gather in the United Kingdom in modern time . they should all be afford our protection ; they should all feel safe . I put my thought about the event on social medium , as we in this House have a tendency to do , and I say , not unreasonably , that we must defeat antisemitism . it take 45 second for one of the hater — whoever debbie . bennett21 be — to write underneath my Instagram post : " strange word ' must be defeat ' " . what on earth be go through that individual ' s mind ? I see it yesterday under another of my post , and I have now report it to the police . a person take issue with something I say about the conflict between Israel and Hamas — it be perfectly legitimate for someone to take issue with my view on that — ask on Instagram : " be you married to a Jew ? " such outrageous behaviour be happen in our country right now , and it have to be stamp out . I want to say this in the Chamber this afternoon , and to support the call of my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster for a jewish history month , because one of the most important reason why we study history be to understand what happen in the past and to ensure that the mistake of the past , the horror of the past and the evil of the past be not able to happen again . yet we see history repeat itself , which be why we simply must have a jewish history month to celebrate the contribution of all our jewish community and everything they have achieve and will continue to achieve . as Members of Parliament , we all receive very difficult email . we all have people come to see we at our surgery in very difficult circumstance , with horrendous story to tell . it be very rare that those story reduce we to tear , but I receive an email from a jewish constituent , whose identity I will protect , openly say : " I have never feel as scared as I do right now to be in the UK … I ' ve consider convert … I ' ve go to ground . " she have turn off the ability to be find on social medium . that should scare we all . it must put a bounce underneath we to ensure that we defeat antisemitism and enable all jewish community , all people of the jewish faith , to live freely , securely and safely , and to feel welcome , here in the United Kingdom , whether they be british or otherwise . I must begin by thank my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) for secure this debate . I learn a great deal from listen to the contribution of Members from across the House today . the variety and richness of they reflect a lot of what we be talk about : the richness of contribution to british society . that be the point I wish to start with : the british jewish community have make a remarkable contribution to the prosperity of our nation . in the face , sadly , of grow hostility abroad and , shamefully , here at home , it be high time that we as a nation celebrate its part in our national story . so I wish to do two thing in the few minute available to I : highlight the remarkable contribution make by the british jewish community in Aberconwy today — in do that I wish to thank Professor Nathan Abrams of Bangor University and the team at Llandudno museum for their important work in trace the history of the jewish resident of north Wales and Aberconwy ; and raise and then quickly dismiss an objection that we can anticipate to found a british jewish history month . in Aberconwy , although jewish resident have never number more than a few hundred individual , they have play a prominent role in the recent history of our community . sadly , Aberconwy be not without its reminder of a dark past . Conwy ' s castle and wall be , of course , build by Edward I , who be notable for both his oppression of the Welsh and his expulsion of jewish subject in 1290 . primarily arrive in Llandudno in the victorian era , the new jewish community be soon a key part of the area ' s booming economy and be actively involve in the development and safeguarding of our local culture . family such as the Croops , Gubays , Wartskis and Blairmans found shop that have become fixture of our high street , visible to this day , with the latter two found international antique business that continue to prosper . we can also thank the Wartskis for the synagogue in Llandudno , which open in 1909 . it be a testament to this legacy that modern - day Llandudno have the pleasure of welcome a large number of hasidic family each year . in more recent time , the first woman mayor of Aberconwy be jewish — Vicki Lazar be elect in 1978 . most recently , in a welcome twist of history , in 2012 the care of those battlement in Conwy that King Edward I build be vote into the competent hand of Cedric Rigal , the first jewish constable and mayor of Conwy , with a rabbi offer a prayer at the inauguration . however , in make the case for celebrate and formally recognise such contribution in Aberconwy and across the UK , we can anticipate an objection , albeit one raise in good faith . in an era of increasingly divisive identitarian politic , it may well be ask : will such recognition encourage british people to think of themselves , and one another , in term of ethnic or religious group identity , and do this not risk compounding , rather than ease , division ? as the MP for a bilingual constituency , a proud Welshman and Brit , I think that that be a profound misunderstanding of identity . our british identity be not totalise ; it do not demand the erosion of the regional and religious identity that make up our nation . we be privileged in Britain to inherit a nation that evolve long before liberal nationalist revolution of the 19th century , when nation such as France , Italy and Germany be engage in assertive state - lead nation building . in contrast , Britain emerge slowly , as network of kin , friendship and trade bind together the destiny of the people of our island . in many european state , for example , standardised education be seize on as a means to erode regional identity , yet here — I speak of north Wales in this case — the fierce independence and plurality of education have represent distinct religious and philosophical tradition . in north Wales , I would count our fierce tradition of non - conformism in that too . when a community ' s story have become intertwine with that of the nation , it become part of the story of Britain , and such be the story of british Jews . it be significant and it be part of our story that deserve to be celebrate . in a world in which ethnic grievance be increasingly and easily stoke for political capital , here be a story of resilience and success . the british jewish contribution to the art , literature , commerce and science of the UK have enrich and elevate our national life , here and in Aberconwy , and it have improve the condition of humanity the world over . this story should serve to inspire people of all background . for that reason , I support the motion put before we today . we move on to the Front - Bench contribution of six , eight and eight minute , although I will not put the clock on . please could the Minister leave a couple of minute for the final word from Nickie Aiken ? I congratulate the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) on secure the debate and on the strength of her opening speech . I love where I live . I feel privileged every day to represent my own local community , and to represent it in all its fantastic diversity , because East Renfrewshire be home to people of all faith and none , include a vibrant and grow muslim community , christian congregation of all kind , significant Sikh and Hindu community , a lovely Baha ' I community and the majority of Jews live in Scotland . we be so much well for the diversity of people who have make their home in East Renfrewshire . that be why I be pleased to join the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster in seek this debate , because we should celebrate all the community that make we who we be . some people have reference the timing of the debate in relation to the challenge time we live in . that may be true to some extent , but it be important to look at the issue through a different prism — that of the history of the jewish community in its own right . so I will give a whistle - stop tour of that rich history in Scotland , particularly in East Renfrewshire . the former Chief Rabbi , the late Jonathan Sacks , write about the jewish community of Scotland combine a strong loyalty to their jewish faith and way of life with a deep attachment to scottish culture and identity . that ring true to I and speak to the long history of the jewish community in Scotland . we hear about degree be award in the 1700 , and the first synagogue be open in Edinburgh in 1817 and Glasgow in 1821 . terrible event in Russia and then Germany , in particular , lead to mass movement of people and community form across Scotland . in 1914 , the Glasgow jewish Representative Council be form , the only jewish school in Scotland open in 1962 , and the fantastic Scottish jewish Archives Centre be found in 1982 , to collect , preserve and display Scotland ' s jewish heritage . it be worth think about that centre as this debate in a physical form , as it be a phenomenally interesting place . throughout all that , every day contribution and less every day contribution have be make , year upon year , to Scotland by our jewish citizen , whether in medicine , law , education or business . that particular thread in the tartan of Scotland be weave deep and clear . give the time of year , I will push that a little far in an appreciation of Rabbi Pete Tobias , not only for his excellent work bring people together to share Passover Seder , but for share with I a very funny Burns supper speech feature someone name Rabbi Burns . today give we an opportunity to focus on the personal and on people . East Renfrewshire resident , the late Ernest Levy , a survivor of Bergen - Belsen , Cantor of the then Giffnock and Newlands synagogue for 40 year , be hugely influential in share testimony on the holocaust . he write a very important book , launch in the Scottish Parliament , and say at that time that he have never feel so scottish in his life . the senior Rabbi of Scotland , Rabbi Moshe Rubin , who have consistently welcome people of all faith , warmly extend a welcome to our First Minister , Humza Yousaf , recently , when both man come together at a hugely move synagogue service , which very clearly demonstrate the importance of common humanity and concern for one another . East Renfrewshire resident , Henry Wuga , will be 100 year old next month . along with his late wife , he influence hundred of young scottish people with their tireless focus on holocaust education . Brigadier Monty Cowen be a brave veteran who lead the Association of Jewish Ex - Servicemen and woman , alongside do a great deal of community work . Evie Yedd ' s work to support our local area in many and varied way be longstanding . she be the hugely influential leader of the local jewish Brownie and Guide pack . she make a profound difference to young life . the wide - range work of Cosgrove Care make a positive difference to people with additional need , and jewish Care make great effort in support our community . there be the Scottish Council of jewish Communities and the Glasgow jewish Representative Council , which work tirelessly to support , to be a voice and to encourage discussion . they work alongside other group , include Interfaith Glasgow and the Council for Christians and Jews . that cross - community and cross - faith dialogue be vital . at a recent event , faith representative and other hear from staff at Woodfarm High School speak about their work with pupil on the Jane Haining project , ensure that our young people know our history . the continue effort locally of gather the Voices , Vision School and other educational project cement that and cement who we be . then there be people like my late friend , Frank Angell , whose work in dentistry and education be important and influential . Frank be a political fellow traveller and a scholar and be greatly miss . I will finish by speak about Calderwood Lodge Primary School , which , 60 year on , be at the heart of our community , on a lovely new campus with its partner school , St Clare ' s Primary . a jewish - catholic joint campus be a unique thing , and that share ethos of understanding be valuable beyond word . that be exactly what we should be speak about today . at this school , child of all faith and none work and play together , learn about respect and friendship , and about enjoy each other ' s tradition . my community be a special one and the contribution of jewish resident to East Renfrewshire be a huge part of who we be . it be a big part of what make we ourselves . we absolutely should celebrate all the community that make up the different constituency . I be very grateful to the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster for bring we here today and I wholeheartedly support her effort . I thank the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) for secure this debate , which have be hugely interesting . I also thank both my hon . friend the Member for Leeds North East ( Fabian Hamilton ) who tell we about his family history , and my hon . friend the Member for Warrington North ( Charlotte Nichols ) , who talk to we about wrestle in way that I have never think of before . on Tuesday , in Westminster Hall , we hear from many member about shocking incident of antisemitism on our street , in school and on university campus . that discussion be vital follow the rise in antisemitism that we have see since the abhorrent attack carry out by Hamas on 7 October . today ' s discussion be similarly vital . now more than ever , it be essential that we recognise and celebrate the rich contribution of the jewish community across the whole of british civil society — the whole of british life . just as I do on Tuesday , I wish to thank the Community Security Trust , which work relentlessly alongside the police to gather record of these incident and to tackle hateful antisemitism . over the past 40 year , the CST have develop a widely recognise and commend model for combat hate crime , and its work be essential . there be many other example of jewish organisation that have contribute the skill and experience that they have hone within their own community to uplift our society as a whole . this serve to highlight the extraordinary contribution that jewish community have make to british social , cultural and political life , despite the adversity that they have all too often endure . as we have hear , historical record show that there be jewish people in England at the time of the Norman conquest , but that they be victim of appalling persecution . in 1190 , the jewish community of York be massacre at the site of Clifford ' s Tower . one hundred year later , jewish people be expel on the order of Edward I — not to return until the time of Oliver Cromwell . I talk about these shameful episode , because it be important that we , in this country , recognise our own history of discrimination , prejudice and violence . it be in the face of this adversity that jewish community in Britain have contribute so much to our vibrant and multicultural society , across every region and in every sector . in my local authority of Gateshead , there be a large Charedi community , with one of the large yeshivas outside of Israel . it be long establish in the heart of the town . from their role in the trade union movement to the work of many jewish communal and charitable organisation today , we have much to thank the jewish community for . and , of course , to thank those individual that we have talk about today who have contribute so much . I want to say a bit about an organisation call Jami , which provide mental health support for the jewish community in the UK . I be introduce to Jami through the jewish Leadership Council , which represent many jewish communal organisation , as part of my work with the all - party parliamentary group on suicide and self - harm prevention . Jami ' s Head Room caf é in Golders Green offer open access to mental health support to anyone who need it . I be so blow away when I visit the caf é that I go on to host a roundtable there , which be attend by other hon . member and many community organisation . I be really impress by Jami ' s commitment not only to its own community , but to work in partnership with other community , organisation and local authority . I look forward to continue to work with Jami . many other jewish organisation be do fantastic work across the board . I think of jewish Women ' s aid , which provide specialist support to jewish woman and child affect by domestic abuse . such organisation be work in difficult circumstance , as the community continue to feel the impact of the 7 October attack . as we know , between 7 October and 13 December the CST record more than 2 , 000 antisemitic incident . More than ever , it be vital to educate people across our community about the nature of antisemitism and hate crime , and to combat it . of course that must include a continue commitment to education about the holocaust . organisation such as the Holocaust Education Trust have do much - need work to embed learn on the holocaust within our education system and within broad society . on 27 January we have Holocaust Memorial Day , and I know that the trust will be in Parliament in the come week to mark that important occasion . amid the threat of holocaust denial and distortion , it be essential that such work continue . that be why we be proud to support the proposal for a permanent holocaust memorial and learn centre . it would be a fitting tribute to the 6 million jewish people who be brutally murder during the holocaust , and a much - need bulwark against misinformation and conspiracy . it be also important to remember the really positive contribution , which we be talk about today , of individual , organisation and the community . I be pleased to do that . on the specific proposal of a british jewish history month , we be enthusiastic about the call to remember british jewish history , and Labour will work with jewish community organisation on the good shape that should take . as event unfold internationally risk division at home , we would also welcome Government step to work with local authority on bolster community cohesion and bring people together . labour be totally unite with the jewish community in the fight against antisemitism , to acknowledge the wrongdoing of the past and , as we have today , to celebrate the rich and diverse contribution of british Jews to our proud multi - cultural society . it be a privilege to respond on behalf of the Government and on behalf of my colleague in the other place , Baroness Penn , who formally hold this portfolio , on this incredibly important issue . many of we who be here today be also in Westminster Hall on Tuesday to debate a more difficult part of this discussion . it be such a pleasure to be able to celebrate the contribution of the british jewish community to our country , and I intend to keep my remark wholly to the positive , have talk about the more challenging issue in Tuesday ' s debate . I know from the contribution of all member that we agree across the House that Britain would not be the country it be today without the enormous contribution make by the jewish community , and indeed by people of all faith and ethnicity . it be crucial that we celebrate that contribution . that be why the Government be very supportive of have a jewish history month — a brilliant idea put forward in this debate by my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) . I congratulate she on secure this important debate , because british Jews have play a vital role in shape the life of our country , stretch back more than 2 , 000 year and produce , as so many colleague have outline , lead talent in the art , law , philosophy , medicine , the medium , finance , the charity sector , retail and wrestling . from Peter George Davis , the founder of the Special Boat Service , to Jack Cohen , the founder of Tesco , as my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster already outline ; and from Ludwig Guttmann , the founder of the Paralympics , to some of our great artist , such as Lucian Freud , and poet , such as Siegfried Sassoon , British Jews have make an outstanding contribution to british public life . they have also do so from all side of this House , as be outline by the hon . member for Leeds North West ( Alex Sobel ) , who be no long in his place , from our first Prime Minister of jewish heritage , Benjamin Disraeli , in the 19th century , to the iron Chancellor Nigel Lawson , to the liberal leader Herbert Samuel , and to celebrate Labour figure , such as Gerald Kaufman and Manny Shinwell , as be mention . the creation of a designate jewish history month would give we an opportunity as a nation to celebrate this history and the vibrancy of jewish culture , tradition , value and the importance of the jewish community to the fabric of our society today . that could not be more important give the event of the past few week . as my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster say herself , we must remind ourselves of the huge contribution that british citizen within the jewish faith have make for the benefit of we all , and a designate history month would be a huge step towards that . this be about celebrate jewish history and culture , as well as — the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , who be no long in his place , say this — an opportunity to foster great community unity and cohesion through inter - faith dialogue and understanding at a time of grow division . I know that be something we would very much all welcome . it would of course need to be meaningful and inform by the wish of the british jewish community themselves . if this be something that the british jewish community would encourage the Government to support , we would welcome their thought on this motion , as we welcome the thought of all right hon . and hon . member across the House and anyone else inspire to take up this important cause . I want to spend a few minute before I close to talk about some of the contribution of colleague today . the hon . member for Leeds North East ( Fabian Hamilton ) and my hon . friend the Member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) speak about the history and importance of the jewish community and tell incredible and — in at least one instance — shocking story , which remind we of the very near - term challenge that this community have face and the importance of support they . the hon . member for North Antrim ( Ian Paisley ) and for Strangford remind we of the contribution of the british jewish community in all part of our Union , include something I never think I would hear : the Sinn F é in rabbi . that demonstrate the absolute contribution in so many different way and with so many different opinion over many decade and century . my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) make a hugely important point about the importance of the british jewish community to our public life and our military life . as the Minister have a little bit of time , because of the time limit , I do not get a chance to mention some of the East Yorkshire jewish son who fall in world war one . I would like to memorialise their name , if he will give I a moment : James Aaron , Isaac Reuben , Barnett Rubinstein , Bernard Shalgosky , Soloman Sole , John Stone , David Gordon and Harry Furman . all fall defend liberty . my hon . friend outline another example of the hugely important contribution the british jewish community have make to our freedom over so many decade . the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) make a hugely important point about how the vast contribution make be often not obvious . like the challenge she may have have in her home city , I have challenge link it to my home constituency where I grow up — it have a very small jewish community . have look at some of the history from Derbyshire , it be hearten to hear that , just 20 year ago , when a small group of people from Derby at the other side of the county find in the archive that the citizen of Derby have pay an amount of money in the 12th century to stop british Jews from live there , they compensate the british jewish community by the equivalent amount in 2002 so that the edict could be remove . such act of kindness and recognition show that what have be call a challenging history can be acknowledge and work through , even in place where there be not large jewish population , such as Derbyshire . my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) make the important point that those who forget history be condemn to repeat it . we hear from my hon . friend the Member for West Bromwich East ( Nicola Richards ) , who do so much on this hugely important subject and who be the genesis of the important debate we have on Tuesday . I know that she and Lord Austin from the other place be keen to acknowledge a gentleman who be in the Public Gallery today — Peter Madeley — a former reporter in the west midland who have do so much over so many year to report on important issue for the jewish community . the hon . member for Warrington North ( Charlotte Nichols ) , as I have already mention , give we some very interesting reference to the wrestling community , and point out the hugely important history , culture and contribution to Britain from the jewish community and how deep and broad that contribution be . my hon . friend the Member for Buckingham ( Greg Smith ) make a hugely important point about the challenge that the community currently face . my hon . friend the Member for Aberconwy ( Robin Millar ) speak about the importance of share heritage and the ability to reconcile that in a way that work for everybody , irrespective of faith , culture , ethnicity or background . finally , I come to my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster . we begin our electoral journey together in the same place in Westminster in 2006 . I have the privilege of represent a historically very jewish area of Maida Vale , know in the 1880 as " New Jerusalem " , which contain the Spanish & Portuguese Synagogue , and we both have the privilege of serve alongside such luminary as Sir Simon Milton , Melvyn Caplan , Daniel Astaire and the former Lord Mayor of Westminster , Councillor Louise Hyams , who be also in the Public Gallery . I be incredibly grateful to my hon . friend for secure this debate . it have be a privilege to be here and to hear about the contribution the jewish community have make to our country over so many year , decade and century . this Government be wholly commit to honour , celebrate and safeguard the security of our jewish community . that be a commitment that I know everybody share , wherever they sit in this place , a commitment that we must work together to uphold and a commitment that be demonstrate by our support for the debate today . it have be a privilege and honour for I to chair this debate today . I thank everybody across the Chamber for take part in what I think be a timely and important debate . I thank the Board of Deputies of british Jews , who have be very helpful to I and my team on the research for my speech . I also thank the jewish Chronicle for provide I with my first - ever front - page lead story this week , and the jewish News , which have a triple - page spread on the merit of a british jewish history month . I hope that they will continue to support our campaign to bring this important month to fruition . as we have a little bit of time , and as my hon . friend have start thank everybody , may I also place on record my thank to the Hull History Centre , which have incredible resource available on the history of the jewish community in Hull and help I prepare some of my word for the debate ? it be a pleasure to allow that intervention . it be absolutely right that we continue to educate ourselves and future generation on antisemitism and the holocaust , and we will be mark the holocaust later this month , but it be equally important — or perhaps more important — that we highlight and celebrate the achievement and contribution of the jewish community . the jewish story in Britain be a positive and a negative one . it be a history of human suffering , of human perseverance and of human strength . now more than ever , it be important that british Jews know that their incredible contribution to this country be value and that the history of antisemitism be understand . I take this opportunity to thank the very special rabbi in my constituency , Rabbi Daniel Epstein of Western Marble Arch Synagogue ; I be sure he be not impress by my Hebrew in this debate , but he provide I with the text from the Torah that I repeat in my speech . the jewish community in the Cities of London and Westminster and across the nation be very important to I and have be very supportive of I , and have lead I to believe that it be now more important than ever that we have a british jewish history month . I look forward to work with this Government , who I believe be very positive towards the suggestion , and with jewish community to make the proposal a reality . we must celebrate the british jewish community and we must have a british jewish history month . I have be an MP for 31 year , and it be not until one of my researcher ask for time off because there be a jewish holiday , and then the other one ask for time off for the jewish holiday , and then the third one come to ask , that I appreciate that all my member of staff be jewish . I be incredibly grateful for the contribution that they have make to my office personally . yet again , this debate demonstrate how good the House be when it come together . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House call for the creation of a british jewish history Month . cost of Living Support : Carshalton and Wallington Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Aaron Bell . ) 5 pm I thank the Speaker ' s Office and you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for grant I this Adjournment debate to talk about the cost of living pressure in my constituency and what fiscal support be available to my constituent . of course , the Government be absolutely right that the big enemy of the cost of living be inflation and the subsequent rise cost of everyday good . interest rate affect rent and mortgage , and the cost of energy to heat our home , be problem that affect everyone in this country . I welcome the Government ' s effort in this area . indeed , we have see inflation come down drastically from its peak , and mortgage interest rate be come down at many bank , but there be still a long way to go . the widespread effect make the cost of live an issue that we can not ignore . we need to provide people with solution to get they through this winter and beyond . most often , the most vulnerable in our society face the most severe consequence . old people , who have weave so much into the social fabric of our community , have to contend with additional strain . of my nearly 15 , 000 constituent age over 65 , roughly 1 , 800 have a long - term health condition and more than 4 , 500 be live alone . it be vital that support be there for they . in recognise the gravity of the situation , I be hearten to share what have already be do by the Government and other to provide direct financial relief to those grappling with cost of living challenge in Carshalton and Wallington . first , I pay tribute to the Government for the 2022 - 23 cost of living payment , which stand as testament to their support for our constituent . the £ 650 cost of live payment , payable over two instalment , have be extend to claimant of universal credit , legacy benefit and tax credit . in my constituency , where roughly 8 , 000 household be on universal credit and 2 , 800 on legacy benefit and tax credit , that equate to an estimate total payout of about £ 7 . 1 million of support . that be exceed in the following year of 2023 - 24 , when it reach a staggering £ 9 . 1 million . the £ 150 disability cost of live payment , which be provide to recipient of certain non - means - test disability benefit , include personal independence payment and attendance allowance , aim to provide relief to 7 , 600 claimant in Carshalton and Wallington , with a total estimate payout of about £ 1 . 1 million last year and £ 1 . 2 million this year . in addition , the £ 300 cost of live payment for pensioner , couple with the winter fuel payment , target 10 , 600 household in my constituency with an estimate total payout of £ 3 . 2 million a year . the £ 150 council tax discount , payable to all household in property in band a to D , stand as an additional measure to alleviate the financial strain on 30 , 500 property in Carshalton and Wallington , with a total estimate payout of £ 4 . 6 million in 2022 - 23 . in total , the estimate value of those payment to my constituency for the year 2022 - 23 and 2023 - 24 equate to £ 30 . 1 million . those figure underscore the Government ' s commitment to address directly the financial challenge face by our community , for which I can only commend they . furthermore , the energy bill support scheme be design to give support directly to those face high energy bill . it be distribute in six equal payment between October 2022 and March 2023 , provide an estimate £ 16 . 6 million to household in Carshalton and Wallington . the energy price guarantee , worth around £ 625 per household , significantly reduce bill between October 2022 and June 2023 , and contribute an estimate value of £ 25 . 4 million to 40 , 641 household in my constituency . altogether , estimate support for the relief of energy bill in my community stand at an impressive £ 42 million . those measure , couple with the ongoing commitment to address the broad cost of living challenge , signify a comprehensive approach to ensure that the wellbeing and financial stability of my constituent be at the forefront . contrast that with the action of Labour and the Lib Dems in my constituency : the Labour Mayor of London have increase his share of council tax on my constituent by a whopping 71 % since 2016 . that be without mention the £ 12 . 50 a day ultra low emission zone charge he have put on the poor Londoners , include small business and charity . the Lib Dem - run council have whack up council tax by 41 % since 2010 , increase parking charge , and vote in favour of expand ULEZ to my constituency . in commend the Government , I also encourage they to go far — to provide help for people and make sure that not only be they aware of the benefit that be available to they , but they know how to access they . we must put the need of our constituent first , ensure that they can afford a warm roof over their head and alleviate the burden of meet the cost of daily essential . the support offer to my constituent by the Government have be generous , and I urge my constituent to look at the help for Households website to see how they could be assist far , but in order to have sustainable , long - term support , we need to take a number of additional measure . as well as the support package I have mention , the Government have already meet their promise to halve inflation . in addition , the national living wage have be increase ; the pension triple lock have be protect ; benefit have be uplifted in line with inflation ; a new mortgage charter have be agree with lender to prevent unaffordable rise ; national insurance have be cut , save family £ 450 a year on average ; business rate have be freeze ; and much more have be do by this government to try to help . to build on that success , inflation must of course continue to fall but , as we know , that only slow the rate of growth . therefore , we must be relentlessly focus on grow the economy — lead to even high wage growth than we have at the moment — and continue to cut taxis far , leave more money in people ' s pocket and be put back into the economy . we must continue to build confidence so that interest rate can come down , build more home to reduce the cost of housing , and back british business and the risk taker to create high - quality job , apprenticeship and opportunity for the next generation . I commend the Government on the work they have do so far to provide support for my constituent , and indeed for many people throughout the country . I look forward to hear from the Minister what far step the Government can take , especially through this winter , to support our constituent through these difficult time . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Carshalton and Wallington ( Elliot Colburn ) on secure this debate . he be an asset to his constituent , who I be sure be pleased to be represent by he in the admirable way he have do so this evening . he be decent and have a clever mind , but most importantly he have a good heart , and that heart be in Carshalton and Wallington . I think all of we in this place recognise the difficult time through which the people of this country , and indeed people around the world , have live over the past couple of year . we have have the covid pandemic , Putin ' s illegal war in Ukraine , and long - gather inflationary cloud that have create a perfect storm for we all , but particularly for vulnerable people . however , this Government and this country have consistently fight back — against the virus , alongside our ukrainian friend and , critically , from the perspective of the Treasury Benches , against the economic headwind . as my hon . friend outline , this Government have provide one of the large support package in Europe over the past two year , in contrast to the damaging action take in his area by the London Mayor and my hon . friend ' s local Liberal Democrat council . some 11 , 300 household in Carshalton and Wallington be eligible for mean - test cost of living payment this financial year , and 8 , 500 individual be eligible for the disability cost of live payment . those household — my hon . friend mention 30 , 500 property in his constituency — along with all their neighbour , would have be eligible for the energy price guarantee , the £ 400 energy bill support scheme and the £ 150 council tax rebate , along with fuel and alcohol duty cut . energy support alone have pay for almost half of the typical family ' s energy bill from October 2022 to June 2023 through both the energy price guarantee and the energy bill support scheme . it be in part thank to those measure that growth and real income have be strong than expect this year — not just strong than expect by the Office for Budget Responsibility , but strong than expect by international economic forecaster . inflation have also come down significantly to less than half its 2022 peak , and in November it fall to 3 . 9 % , which be the low rate in over two year . again , that be not forecast by the OBR or international forecaster . I do not deny that the outlook for real income remain challenge — it remain very challenging for many people , particularly vulnerable people in my hon . friend ' s constituency and across the country — as do inflation , but that be why we announce further support in the autumn statement in November to support the most vulnerable . the Government will raise local housing allowance rate to the 30th percentile of local market rent in April 2024 . in plain English , what do that mean ? it mean that 1 . 6 million low - income household will be well off to the tune of about £ 800 on average in 2024 - 25 . some , particularly Opposition member , often say that that be not a lot of money , but I can tell the House that , for those 1 . 6 million low - income household , it be considerable support that they will welcome , as they will in my hon . friend ' s constituency . the Government will also uprate all work - age benefit in full by the September 2023 consumer price index rate of 6 . 7 % , which be considerably high than inflation , to make sure that working - age people on benefit be support properly . that is 3 percentage point high than forecast earning for 2024 - 25 and , again , it will help support the most vulnerable while inflation continue to fall , with 5 . 5 million household on universal credit gain £ 470 on average in the 2024 - 25 financial year . my hon . Friend mention in his speech that 15 , 000 of his constituent be over 65 , and we be maintain the triple lock in support of those people and pensioner across this country , who have help to build this country and have work hard over year go by . the basic state pension , new state pension and pension credit standard minimum guarantee will be uprate in April 2024 in line with wage growth of 8 . 5 % in the usual reference period . in 2024 - 25 , the full yearly amount of the basic state pension will be £ 3 , 750 high in cash term than in 2010 or , to put it more simply , £ 995 more — almost £ 1 , 000 more — than if it have be uprate by price alone . that come on top of cost of living payment this year that be help more than 8 million household on eligible mean - test benefit , 8 million pensioner household and 6 million people across the UK on eligible disability benefit . for individual need further support , local authority in England continue to provide support through the household support fund , which be back by £ 1 billion of funding . this allow local authority up and down England to provide crisis support for the vulnerable household that need it the most , such as through supermarket or food bank voucher . this mean that , from 2022 to 2025 , total support to help household with the cost of living will be over £ 100 billion — £ 104 billion — at an average of £ 3 , 700 per UK household . however , I and the Government know that relatively short - term help be not enough . the only sustainable way to help vulnerable people in this country , include in my hon . friend ' s constituency , and to improve the living standard be to build a more prosperous future while remain fiscally responsible . the good way to do that be to grow the economy and get more people into well pay job . on grow the economy , this be not the time for more statistic , but I will say this : take together , the measure in the autumn statement and the 2023 Budget represent the big upgrade in the GDP forecast that the Office for Budget Responsibility have ever score . that show the Government ' s commitment to and delivery of a grow economy , which give we all a well future . when it come to get people into well pay job , from 1 April 2024 , the Government be increase the national living wage by 9 . 8 % to £ 11 . 44 an hour for eligible worker age 21 or over . that represent an increase of more than £ 1 , 800 in the earning of a full - time worker on the national living wage and will benefit over 2 . 7 million low - pay worker . just this month , employee ’ main national insurance contribution rate have be cut by about 17 % — that is , cut from 12 % to 10 % — and from April the main rate of class 4 national insurance for self - employ people will be reduce similarly , from 9 % to 8 % . that tax cut be worth £ 9 billion a year and be the large ever cut to employee and self - employ national insurance . the OBR expect that the measure announce at the spring Budget and autumn statement , take together , will support nearly 200 , 000 additional people into work by the end of the forecast period . we do not do this for academic reason or for fun ; we do this because we know that give people more of their own money — allow they to keep more of their own money — improve their living standard , and we can do this while increase funding for public service . despite the difficulty of the last couple of year , over the course of this Parliament public service will benefit from the public purse by an increase above inflation of over 3 % . we be do this while support public service , while bring down the deficit and bring down the debt , and we can do all of it because of our careful management of the economy . that will benefit the vulnerable people in my hon . friend ' s constituency of Carshalton and Wallington and people across the country . these measure underscore the Government ' s unwavere commitment to support household up and down the country . we firmly believe that the key to a prosperous future lie in create opportunity for everyone . the boost to the national living wage and the historic reduction in national insurance contribution be powerful tool in drive employment . get more people into work be not just good for they ; it be good for our economy and for improve living standard , and it be clear evidence of a Government who have be willing to act to the tune of over £ 100 billion over the last three year . by put more money into the pocket of hardworke people , we be not only bolster their financial wellbeing but fuel economic growth . as always , we need to balance support for household with fiscal sustainability . the economic position remain challenging . we continue to keep option under review as we take tough decision to drive down debt , drive down inflation and increase prosperity in every part of the United Kingdom . these be complex issue that affect all our constituent , wherever we call home . I thank all hon . member , but particularly you , Mr Deputy Speaker , because you be very kind , and my hon . friend the Member for Carshalton and Wallington . he care deeply for his constituent for whom he be a brilliant advocate in this place , and it be an honour to respond to he today . thank you for your kind word . question put and agree to . House adjourn .