Oral Answers to Questions Business and Trade the Secretary of State be ask — forced labour : product Ban if she will introduce legislative proposal to ban product from UK market that be make with or transport use force labour . the Government recognise the importance of ensure that UK business respect human right throughout their operation . we continue to keep this area under review and will work with our international partner to understand the most effective way of tackle force labour in supply chain . I thank my hon . friend for his answer . however , company with well - document link to Uyghur slave labour be dump their good here in the UK . that be because the United States have introduce the Uyghur Forced Labour Prevention Act and the EU have act similarly . last month , I , along with 43 member of this House and 32 human right organisation , write a joint statement call for import control on solar panel . will the Minister agree to meet I to discuss that and to finally bring forward measure to clean up our supply chain ? the Government be clear that british business and solar developer should not stand for receive solar panel from company link to force labour . we have already take step to address the issue through the Procurement Act 2023 and the Modern Slavery Act 2015 . in addition , the forthcoming UK solar road map will outline a clear path to reach our solar deployment ambition , include on energy security . I reassure my hon . friend that sustainable solar supply chain will form a central chapter of that road map , and I would be happy to either arrange or have a meeting with she . horizon : Northern Ireland Postmasters what step her Department be take to support postmaster affect by error in the Horizon IT system in Northern Ireland . on Monday , the House agree a Government amendment to the Horizon exoneration Bill — the Post Office ( Horizon System ) offence Bill — to include conviction in Northern Ireland . the Northern Ireland Executive face unique challenge in deliver their own legislation in a timely manner . include Northern Ireland in the Bill ensure that postmaster there be not leave behind , and receive exoneration and access to compensation on a UK - wide basis . first , let I put on record my thank to the Minister , who have be an industrious , assiduous and great champion for the postmaster and postmistress across this United Kingdom . there be not a person in the House who do not have great respect for he . far to Monday ' s business in the House regard that Northern Ireland provision in the Horizon Bill , which be bring forward by my hon . friend the Member for North Antrim ( Ian Paisley ) and my right hon . friend the Member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) , will the Minister outline a timeline so that postmaster and postmistress across all of Northern Ireland can see an end to the reputational and financial damage , and the heartache cause by the disgraceful operation of the Horizon scheme ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his kind word . it be always a pleasure to work with he and his colleague . it be our intention that the legislation will clear both Houses by July , although obviously not all of these thing be within our gift . should that be the case , as we fully expect it to be , the conviction will be quash in July and compensation redress will be pay from August . Export Target what progress she have make on help business to reach her target level of export . what progress she have make on support business to reach £ 1 trillion in annual export . UK export be £ 862 billion in the 12 month to February . UK service export reach a record £ 472 billion in the same period , which be an increase of 10 % — they go up by £ 42 billion . business , include small and medium - sized enterprise , can access my Department ' s wealth of export support at great . gov . uk . that support include the UK Export Academy , which have have more than 18 , 000 registration ; our 160 international trade adviser , who help about 6 , 000 sme each year ; and 388 export champion , across every part of the UK . be we really the fourth large exporter in the world ? I be pleased to tell my right hon . friend that we be . there be many , many more good statistic , which he will find in the publication my Department produce at the end of January ; it contain further good news story on UK export . the UK be a global export superpower and the world ' s second big service exporter . service export to the European Union be at a record high and have increase by 36 % since 2018 . my right hon . friend have just detail very encouraging datum , much of which result from the hard work of sme . will she give a bit more information about what support be available specifically to sme to help they grow and export more of their product and service ? the Department have declare this year the year of the SME . People often hear news that sound as though it be just about big business , but sme employ most of the people in the UK . we have a network of 160 international trade adviser and our export support service . we have also put in place scheme such as a help to grow management course , which 5 , 290 participant have complete by November . we also have a business support service , which provide support to about 30 , 000 people in England every year . far to those comment about sme , in the light of the termination of the trade show access programme , which support sme in gain international market exposure , what be the Government ' s strategy to provide equivalent or enhanced support to ensure UK food product remain competitive within EU market ? we know that a lot of people be disappointed that we close the trade show programme , but it be a pilot programme and it do not yield the business success that we have hope . we be invest in those thing that be provide success and demonstrate real benefit . the UK Export Academy be one of they , along with the export support service , as I mention , and the international trade adviser . many of they will have expertise in food and drink . if the hon . Gentleman write to we with a specific case , we will be happy to help . I call the shadow Minister . unfortunately for Government Members , and more importantly for the country , the Office for Budget Responsibility ' s recent figure , which I know the Secretary of State struggle with , show that export have drop on her watch and be set to have decline again this year . if she have a moment to spare from her leadership campaign , she might read the landmark report publish by Aston University last week on the significant boost for british export that a veterinary agreement could deliver through british farmer and the agrifood industry . why will she not pursue an agreement that be so obviously in Britain ' s national interest ? the OBR put out lot of figure and the Opposition cherry - pick the one they think will be most helpful , think that we have not do our homework . I encourage the hon . member to look at the OBR forecast for growth for this country , which be very high , and I ask he which specific period he be refer to . he should look at what have happen to export overall , not just period include covid , which explain why we have have some drop in food export . I ask the Secretary of State about the veterinary agreement ; I suspect no one on the Opposition Benches will be surprised that she have not show any interest in a trade agreement that would help british farmer . accord to the House of Commons Library , under the last Labour Government export rise by 55 % , but since then export have rise by only 32 % . be the truth not that british exporter always do well under a Labour Government ? that be absolute rubbish . it be not true . the veterinary agreement that he be talk about would create dynamic alignment with the EU , which be not what this country vote for in 2016 . we be deliver what the people vote for . yes , there will be difficulty — we be sort they out . it be time that the opposition move on and accept the will of the people . South Korea : FTA Negotiations what recent progress her Department have make on negotiate a free trade agreement with South Korea . I thank my right hon . friend for the valuable work he be do as the Prime Minister ' s trade envoy to the Republic of Korea . I look forward to his upcoming visit there . he be famous for his timely intervention . detailed round 2 discussion on an upgrade FTA take place in London from 18 to 22 March , which provide an opportunity to conclude the exploratory phase of negotiation . we now look forward to text - base negotiation in round 3 , which be due to take place in Seoul from 24 June . I thank my right hon . friend for his answer ahead of my visit to Korea next week . do he agree that the Indo - Pacific region offer huge opportunity for global growth , particularly as it will be home to something like half the world ' s middle - class consumer over the come decade , and therefore that upgrade this agreement be likely to bring huge benefit to the UK ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . the Indo - Pacific be a vital part of the world for the UK and form the centrepiece of our strategy go forward diplomatically and on trading tie . he be right that the Republic of Korea will play a vital role in that . the recently sign Downing Street accord with Korea outline the breadth and depth of the ongoing relationship . we look forward to the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership come into effect later this year , and we look forward to see if the Republic of Korea will apply . I be sure the right hon . member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) do a very effective job in South Korea . I visit myself with the Digital , Culture , Media and Sport Committee a couple of year ago and see those opportunity . however , there be some concern about transparency around the use of trade envoy . will the Minister confirm to the House that under this Government no trade envoy have ever demand and be give the use of a house for their exclusive use ? the hon . Gentleman have slightly jump the gun , as the next question on the Order Paper relate to trade envoy . may I say how proud we be of the cross - party trade envoy programme , which I think he will hear about in a moment ? we think they do an excellent , good value - for - money job for the United Kingdom in promote trade in a number of key market . parliamentary Trade Envoys what the travel cost of parliamentary trade envoy be in each of the last three year . the Prime Minister ' s trade envoy provide invaluable support in progress the UK ' s trade and investment agenda in 61 market across the world . the travel cost incur by the Prime Minister ' s trade envoy be : £ 63 , 566 for the financial year 2021 - 22 ; £ 226 , 014 for 2022 - 23 ; and £ 232 , 325 for 2023 - 24 . these cost be for flight , for accommodation when the official british residence be unavailable and for other sundry expense . there be a great deal of murkiness about the trade envoy . I note that , in answer to my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff West ( Kevin Brennan ) , the Minister point blank refuse to deny that at least one trade envoy have explicitly ask for the exclusive use of a house while act as a trade envoy . the Minister have point blank refuse to publish the breakdown of all the trade envoy and their cost for absolutely spurious reason . if a Select Committee visit South Korea , for instance , all the detail of the cost be publish , but not if a trade envoy go . how can we possibly judge whether the £ 750 , 000 that have be spend so far in the past three year have be well spend ? be there any accountability whatsoever , or be this really just a means of provide sinecure for people who be like in Government ? well , there be a lot of bluster there and not a few accusation . the hon . Gentleman may wish to try to stack these thing up a bit . it be a cross - party programme , not a Government - only programme . many Labour mp , labour peer and other be member of the programme . gift and hospitality be already publish in departmental register . if I may say so , Mr Speaker , two qualification for this cross - party role be diplomacy and discretion , which might explain why not everybody have be ask to do it . Scottish Products : Overseas Promotion what recent discussion she have have with the Scottish Government on the promotion of scottish product in overseas market . my Department work closely with the Scottish Government and their agency to promote scottish product in overseas market . we have recently deliver our Made in Scotland , sell to the World exporter roadshow in Glasgow . on top of that , I be pleased to say that the PG Paper Company , a brilliant scottish business , have just receive an award in this year ' s make in the UK , sell to the World award . the value of Scotland ' s oil export to the EU reach £ 9 . 4 billion in 2023 , with total oil export up 14 . 7 % , so the value of oil as an export commodity can not be overstate . those billion of pound in export can be balance against the modest £ 80 million investment that would increase Grangemouth ' s profitability threefold , secure its long - term future and save Grangemouth from closure . do the Secretary of State accept that it would be absurd for Scotland to be the only major oil - produce nation without a refinery capacity , and will she agree to meet I to discuss this matter far , give that the Scottish Government be otherwise occupy ? the hon . Gentleman be right to raise this issue . it be something that we be concern about and the UK and Scottish Governments be work together to understand all the option for the future of the refinery , and work closely on the issue through forum such as the Grangemouth Future Industry Board . I be very happy to meet he — as be other Ministers — to discuss this matter far . do the Secretary of State agree that , while there have be great progress in promote and increase the export of traditional scottish product , such as whisky , we also need to support new business , such as one in South Lanarkshire that be keen to expand electronic vehicle infrastructure into the United States ? yes , my right hon . friend be quite right : our export need to be about the future , not just about the traditional industry , such as Scottish whisky , which be the pride of Scotland and of the UK . electric vehicle be one way that we will hit our net zero target , and this be an area that the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero be focus on and that I support in Business and Trade . if there be anything specific that we can look into for his constituency , we would be very happy to help . Steel Supply Chain Jobs what step she be take to support job in steel supply chain . the UK Government ' s £ 500 million grant will safeguard steelmaking in Port Talbot , 5 , 000 job in the company and thousand more in supply chain across the UK that would otherwise have be under serious threat . the transition board , with a furth £ 100 million of funding — £ 80 million from the UK Government and £ 20 million from Tata — will also support those affect . that funding will help supply chain business to strengthen and diversify their customer base , create sustainable job and business opportunity in Port Talbot and the wide region . when it be finally introduce , the carbon border adjustment mechanism will provide a vital tool to ensure that british steelworker have a level playing field so that they can compete against heavily pollute steel industry in other part of the world , but recent medium report have indicate that India be lobby no . 10 for an exemption from the UK CBAM . do the Minister recognise that cbam work only if they be comprehensive across all country and sector , and if we start give exemption here or there the entire policy will unravel ? that be particularly important give that Tata ' s plan for Port Talbot be base on import million of tonne of semi - finished product steel from India , a country that produce its steel with significantly high carbon intensity . will the Minister confirm that under no circumstance will India be give an exemption from the UK carbon border adjustment mechanism ? a yes or no answer will suffice . I be pleased to visit the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency as part of my first round of visit in this new role . I look forward to meet he again later this month . he be right that the Government be commit to ensure that UK decarbonisation effort lead to a true reduction in global emission . the CBAM policy be still be design . the consultation be ongoing , and I recommend that he contribute to it . resident in Scunthorpe be particularly concerned about steel supply chain job relate to virgin steelmaking . my hon . friend ' s predecessor , my hon . friend the Member for Wealden ( Ms Ghani ) , be very clear from the Dispatch Box that we obviously need a place for virgin steelmaking in the UK , and that that place be Scunthorpe . will he confirm that he agree with she , and that nothing be off the table in his negotiation with British Steel ? I be pleased to visit my hon . friend ' s constituency to meet steelworker and British Steel management during my visit last month . I know that she be a passionate and dedicated champion for her community and for steelworker there . I look forward to meet she again next week ahead of the visit of the Secretary of State to her constituency , and to discuss these matter and other . I call the shadow Minister . no commitment to virgin steel from the Minister , then — what a shame . I welcome he to his place , and note that he visit Port Talbot steelwork last week , but he fail to meet any actual steelworker of course . instead of avoid discuss the Government ' s plan for £ 500 million of taxpayer ' money for the loss of nearly 3 , 000 job , will he please commit to meet some Port Talbot steelworker , and will he publish his economic assessment of the impact of the UK lose its capacity to make virgin steel — or be his actual plan to just keep his head down until the Prime Minister finally have the gut to call a general election and leave all these problem pile up for somebody else ? this Conservative Government have give more support to the steel sector than any Government before we . when I go to Port Talbot , I be pleased to meet steelworker , and I will continue to do so . I also sit on the transition board . I will continue to support steel in south Wales and all the opportunity that the sector will bring . caribbean Community : trade what recent progress she have make on increase level of trade with Caribbean Community member state . my hon . friend be a great champion of international trade , as the Prime Minister ' s trade envoy for Mongolia . he will be pleased to know that annual trade between the UK and the caribbean economic community , CARICOM , in 2023 be £ 5 . 1 billion — up 11 % in current price on the previous year . in December 2023 , I represent the UK at the inaugural joint council of our economic partnership agreement , where I meet representative of CARICOM and the Dominican Republic , collectively know as CARIFORUM , underline the importance of our trading relationship and explore opportunity to far boost trade . I speak as the chairman of the all - party parliamentary group on St Kitts and Nevis , Guyana and the Caribbean . it be an extremely important region for the United Kingdom , one of the large concentration of british overseas territory and Commonwealth nation in the world , with historic link with the United Kingdom , but the copy - and - paste trade deal that we have with they , carry over from the European Union , be not sufficient . we need a more tailor - make , specific trade agreement between the United Kingdom and the Caribbean Community to ensure that some of those protectionist measure that the European Union impose on our CARICOM friend can be rescind . when will that happen ? I thank my hon . friend for his engagement in the region , in St Kitts , the Caribbean as a whole and Guyana , which remain in all our mind at the moment give the situation on its border . he be right to highlight the CARIFORUM trade deal ; it be a deal that the UK value , and I mention that we have have the inaugural meeting of the body design to ensure that the deal have good effect on our trade with the Caribbean . I might suggest arrange a meeting between my hon . friend and the trade commissioner Jonathan Knott , who I be sure would be delighted to meet he to discuss caribbean trade possibility still far . small business : Non - financial Reporting Requirements what step her Department be take to reduce non - financial reporting requirement for small business . I thank my hon . friend for his question and for his work as one of our trade envoy to the Kingdom of Morocco — I know he be a true diplomat and the soul of discretion . we recently announce that we be raise the monetary threshold that determine company size , reduce burden on small business and remove low - value and overlap reporting requirement . around 13 , 000 medium - sized company will be reclassify as small company , and 100 , 000 small company will be reclassify as micro - company . this will save small and medium - sized company around £ 145 million a year . I visit many small business in my Aylesbury constituency , and I be always incredibly impressed by their spirit of entrepreneurship and the huge effort and hard work that they put in to succeed . they want to be able to devote as much of their skill and time as possible to find new customer , sell more of their product and create job , not to bureaucracy , admin and onerous regulation . as the true party of business , our Government have already make great progress support business , as the Minister have just outline , but what more can his Department do to help the small and micro - firm that be the engine of our economy ? my hon . friend be a real champion of small business , and we meet often talk about these matter . this government ' s policy have push the UK to third place in the OECD ranking for start - up — third out of 39 country — and we have a suite of programme to help small business . most importantly , we offer access to finance , with our start - up Loans Company , growth guarantee scheme and equity investment scheme , the seed enterprise investment scheme and the enterprise investment scheme . we offer supportive advice through our help to grow management suite , include our newly launch " help to grow : Management Essentials " course , which be two hour ' free online training for small business . we be also remove barrier through non - financial reporting . as well as the monetary size threshold , we be consult on increase the employee size threshold from 250 employee for a medium - sized company to 500 , which will save medium - sized company a furth £ 150 million a year . I call the shadow Minister . alongside the despair and financial pressure face by small business , the British Poultry Council recently report that unreciprocated EU border check have unfairly saddle UK exporter with £ 55 million a year in extra cost , while their EU counterpart pay absolutely nothing . do the Minister agree that this Government ' s failure to negotiate a fair sanitary and phytosanitary agreement with the EU have directly undermine british business and expose our exporter to severe competitive disadvantage ? I be surprised that the hon . Gentleman ' s question be put that way . we be try to make sure that we have a fair and level playing field for UK exporter and EU exporter . of course we need check on the border on that basis — it would not be fair to UK producer if that be not the case — but what he be push for in a sanitary and phytosanitary agreement be what his hon . friend the hon . member for Harrow West ( Gareth Thomas ) be push for : dynamic alignment with the EU , which would lock we into EU rule permanently . we do not believe in that . we believe we have a bright future outside the European Union . he would lock we back into the custom union and the single market . manufacture Sector what recent assessment she have make of the contribution of the manufacturing sector to the economy . the UK be a global hub for advanced manufacturing , and accord to the OECD , the UK ' s manufacturing sector have have the fast growth in the G7 since 2010 . the importance of the sector be highlight in the Manufacturing Technologies Association ' s recent " the true impact of UK manufacturing " report . manufacturing contribute £ 217 billion gross value add to the UK economy in 2023 , and play an outsized role in the key driver of growth , include by account for over 40 % of UK export . the UK lead the way in area such as artificial intelligence , robotic and the internet of thing , which be important for our future , especially in manufacturing . how be that strengthen british business and the british economy ? it be well know across the House that my hon . friend be a strong champion for manufacturing and advanced technology . the Government be also strongly committed to support research and development and innovation , because they contribute significantly to our economic growth . in particular , industrial technology such as robotic and AI be support manufacture business to be more productive and sustainable . that be why the Government have increase R & D investment to £ 20 billion a year , and be expand make Smarter , our highly successful industrial digitisation programme for small and medium - sized enterprise . mainly because of this House ' s worship of the false idol of net zero , electricity cost to business in the UK be four and a half time high than those in China and three time high than those in India . can the Minister explain how manufacturing business in the UK can compete with that on world market ? I hope that the hon . Gentleman will join I in welcome the introduction of the british industry supercharger , which reduce electricity cost for major energy - intensive industry . I hope that it will benefit business in his constituency and across the country . I call the SNP spokesperson . a key sector of the manufacture economy be the plastic industry , which employ 155 , 000 people and have an annual turnover of £ 28 . 7 billion . in July 2023 , the UK Government begin a consultation on the plastic packaging tax and the methodology behind it . in February , some 14 organisation sign a joint letter to the Government urge the swift publication of that consultation . when exactly do the Government expect to be able to respond to that long - overdue consultation ? the hon . Gentleman be right : the UK plastic industry be highly important and contribute £ 8 . 2 billion to the economy last year . I be aware of the consultation , which be lead by the Treasury , and I will ensure that he get a reply . United States : trade what recent progress she have make on increase level of trade with the United States . over the past two year , UK - US trade have grow 35 % from £ 230 billion to £ 311 billion , while share investment between our two nation now total over £ 1 . 1 trillion . in March , follow the excellent work of our trade envoy , my right hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth West ( Sir Conor Burns ) , I sign a state - level arrangement with Texas . that mean that UK business now have memorandum of understanding with eight US state with a combined gdp equivalent to a quarter of the whole US economy . I be delighted to report that US motorsport giant Andretti have show a massive vote of confidence in the UK by take 40 , 000 square foot of facility in Buckinghamshire , with another 70 , 000 square foot on order , and be already employ over 100 people locally in high - tech job . that clearly open up huge opportunity for automotive and motorsport supply - chain business on both side of the pond , include General Motors . will my right hon . friend join I in welcome Andretti to the UK in its bid to get on to the Formula 1 grid , and what more can she do to ensure that automotive and motorsport supply chain can operate on both side of the Atlantic ? I be delighted to see my hon . friend visit the opening of Andretti Global ' s new facility in Silverstone last month . I wish it luck as it continue its preparation to enter Formula 1 . that investment be another vote of confidence in the world - lead innovation that the UK have to offer . Andretti Global will also specifically benefit from the MOU that we have sign with Indiana , which will enhance our trade relationship in key area , include advanced manufacturing . wine : Pint Measures whether UK wine company have seek advice from her Department on preparation for produce wine in pint measure under the Weights and Measures ( Intoxicating Liquor ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 . the 568 ml pint quantity be one of several change to pre - pack wine size that be expect to come into force on 19 September 2024 , support the thrive UK wine sector by provide opportunity for innovation and great choice . in light of those change , Wine GB — which represent producer — say : " we welcome the chance to be able to harmonise still and sparkle bottle size and we be happy to raise a glass to the great choice that allow UK producer for domestic sale . " that answer be nowhere near as definitive as the press release that the Minister ' s Department put out on 27 December last year — which be still on the Government website — with the headline " ' pint ' of wine stock on Britain ' s shelf for the first time ever " . that headline do not say " will be stock " , " might be stock " " could be stock " , or " to be stock " ; it imply that pint of wine be , and be , available to buy right now in shop across the UK . will the Government admit that the reality be that there have be little to no demand for , or interest in , that supposedly glorious Brexit benefit , and that in fact it be entirely possible that pint of wine will never be stock on UK shelf ? it be never difficult to distinguish the hon . gentleman from a ray of sunshine , be it ? our wine industry be thrive , with over 900 vineyard across Great Britain . the UK wine industry produce 12 . 2 million bottle of wine in 2022 , and our new post - Brexit power provide we with new option . those include new legislation that align exist size across still and spark pre - pack wine so that both can be sell in 200 ml and 500 ml quantity , for which we know there be good demand . New Zealand FTA : Environment whether she have make an assessment of the potential impact of New Zealand ' s propose fast - track Approvals Bill on its obligation under the UK - New Zealand free trade agreement environment chapter . in March , the UK and New Zealand highlight the importance of our environmental commitment at the first ever environment committee under our new free trade agreement . we continue to engage with New Zealand on implement the environmental chapter , and will monitor the propose Bill that the hon . Lady mention during its passage through New Zealand ' s Parliament . the New Zealand FTA enter into force on 31 May 2023 . it contain a commitment in article 22 that each party will not " waive or otherwise derogate from , or offer to waive or otherwise derogate from , its environmental law in a manner that weaken or reduce the protection afford in that law " . be there not a danger that the fast - track approval will erode those protection ? what step will the Government take to ensure that New Zealand absolutely uphold its commitment under the FTA ? as I say , we will continue to monitor the passage of that propose legislation , but the hon . Lady must recognise that the UK and New Zealand be incredibly like - minded in these area — on climate , the environment and clean growth . the environment chapter in our free trade agreement be one of the most ambitious in any FTA anywhere in the world . it break new ground for both the UK and New Zealand in support our share climate and environmental goal , clean growth , and the transition to a net zero economy . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . Post Office governance be a priority for the Government , and I have say many time that it be vital that we have the right people lead that organisation . I be therefore pleased to tell the House that , on Wednesday , I announce the appointment of Nigel Railton as its interim chair . have previously be chief executive of Camelot , Nigel bring a wealth of experience of transform organisation , and I be confident that he be the right person to lead the Post Office through this period . Nigel Railton will take up his post as soon as possible , and will be invite to give Ministers his view on the future direction of the Post Office in due course . when will the Government admit that their Brexit dream of people quaff pint of wine and invoke the spirit of Churchill be always a fantasy , and that the reality be , in fact , a Brexit nightmare of border check , reduce consumer choice and business closure ? it be nonsense to say that this reduce consumer choice ; it actually increase consumer choice . I can not imagine why anyone would be complain about the sale of pint of wine . if the hon . Gentleman do not like they , he do not have to buy they . I know that my right hon . and hon . friend in the Department have be look into the closure of Kelsale post office , an outreach service in my constituency . very recently , we vote through more money to subsidise the Post Office , include £ 50 million for rural branch . will my right hon . friend the Secretary of State make sure that that money be allocate ? I know that the Post Office be try to cut cost , but that should not be at the expense of customer in Kelsale . I thank my right hon . friend for her work on this , and she raise this important matter with I at meeting last month . we allocate £ 50 million for the uncommercial part of the network , and part of that should help the service in her constituency . I know she be disappoint at the closure of the outreach service in Kelsale , but there be an alternative permanent post office branch in Saxmundham , 1 . 3 mile away . I be happy to continue the conversation between she and the post office to make sure that she get the service she need in her constituency . I call the shadow Minister . shoplifting cost UK retailer £ 1 . 8 billion in 2023 , the high figure on record . the Government ' s £ 200 shoplifting threshold have effectively decriminalise this offence , which be cost business dear . what discussion have the Minister have with the Home Secretary about scrap it , as Labour plan to do , so retailer and customer be protect and high street business can thrive ? it be not true to say that we have decriminalise theft under £ 200 . the hon . lady need to speak to police officer and her local chief constable to make sure she understand how this work . I have work very closely with the Home Office and the Policing Minister to make sure we have a retail crime action plan , which include a vexatious offence with more severe sentence for people who assault shop worker . we have get an action plan together and it be work well with retailer , and I be very keen to see her support that plan . well , it be not work , and the Minister and the Secretary of State should take this seriously , because it be damage our high street and cause huge concern up and down the country . he and the Secretary of State should go and meet those business , and hear from they directly . turn to another issue , we have see 14 year of conservative under - investment in public infrastructure , a failure to provide certainty and a failure to get a grip on the economy . business investment have also suffer . have it match the average investment level of France , Germany and the US , our gdp would be nearly 4 % high today , and wage would have be boost by £ 1 , 250 a year . can the Secretary of State outline how she plan to fix this crippling investment gap , and what will she do to make sure business get the support they need so that we can get the economic growth this country desperately need after 14 year of under - investment ? I remember a time when Labour Members be tell everyone that we should not invest in nuclear , and it be under this Conservative Government that we be invest in nuclear infrastructure . that have only happen under conservative government . the hon . Lady ask about the plan . I would remind she about the global investment summit we have in November , which raise nearly £ 30 billion in one day . no one be well than our current Prime Minister at deliver inward investment for this country . business investment be rise , and it be rise because of the policy that he and the Chancellor have put in place , such as capital expensing . yesterday , I be pleased to meet a number of UK aerospace business demonstrate and showcase extraordinary innovation right here in the United Kingdom , include Safran , which have a significant base in Pitstone in my constituency . can I ask my hon . Friend what the Department have do to ensure that we can increase aerospace export ? I thank my hon . friend , who I know be a strong champion of aerospace export in this House . last year ' s autumn statement extend the aerospace technology programme budget by a further five year , with an additional £ 975 million of new R & D funding from 2025 through to 2030 . as part of this vote of confidence in the UK civil space sector , our trade mission and trade promotion activity by my Department and our embassy around the world continue to help company with export contract worth million of pound . I call the SNP spokesperson . in 2017 , Boris Johnson claim the UK be " first in line " for a post - Brexit trade deal with the United States . while negotiation open in May 2020 , no progress have be make since October of that year . when do the Secretary of State expect to be able to deliver this allege Brexit benefit , and what do she think will arrive first — a trade deal with the US or pint of champagne to toast it with ? as everyone on the Government Benches know , even if we have a trade deal with the US , the hon . Member would be stand there tell we how he would be vote against it . the fact of the matter be that the US be not carry out any free trade agreement with any country . there be nothing we can do about that , so instead we have be negotiate deal with state at an individual level , as I mention . for the last one , the governor of Texas come to the UK to sign a trade deal memorandum of understanding between Texas and the United Kingdom . our relationship with the US be go well . I speak about export increase , and our trade increase to £ 311 billion . trade with the US be go well . we will continue to pursue a free trade agreement , but trade require two party in order to deliver . be Ministers as concerned as I be about continue report that Royal Mail be determined to move away from a six - day service ? in a large rural constituency such as mine , with an old population , people continue to rely on the Royal Mail for important communication . can the Minister make clear that that be not the direction of travel the Government want Royal Mail to go in ? we absolutely agree with that point , and we have be clear with Royal Mail and the regulator Ofcom that we want a continued six - day service . Royal Mail and hopefully Ofcom will have hear what my right hon . friend and I be say today : the six - day service must continue . far to the question from my hon . friend the Member for Upper Bann ( Carla Lockhart ) to the Prime Minister yesterday , with the Republic of Ireland now employ a form of border control , seemingly reinstate a hard border , what discussion have take place regard the ability for business vehicle to pass through the border , with delay due to onerous check by Garda S í och á na and Republic of Ireland and EU border staff ? of course the Government as a whole be monitor this situation very closely . we have very good relation with the Government of the Republic of Ireland , and I will pass on the hon . member ' s comment to the Cabinet Office and the Foreign Office . would it be acceptable if the UK become the only country in the G7 that could not make its own virgin steel ? my hon . friend will know how commit this Government be to the steel industry , but at the moment it be go through a transition . we care about have primary steel - make capacity in this country — that be something we want to do and to keep , but as she know , even now we still import ore . I know she be concerned about British Steel and its future . I will be visit her constituency in Scunthorpe and we will be able to discuss those matter far . yesterday , the BBC report on expert analysis that have be submit to the transition board , indicate that cut 2 , 800 directly employ Tata Steel employee could lead to up to 9 , 500 additional job loss , due to the huge number of contractor and sub - contractor who be indirectly employ by Tata . when the Government hand £ 500 million of taxpayer ' money to Tata to do that deal , have they make a full assessment of the job loss : not just those directly employ by Tata who would lose their job , but the vast number of job that will be lose through the supply chain and contractor ? the hon . Gentleman and I both sit on the Tata transition board , which have a dedicated group to look at the welfare of contractor and supply chain partner . we will ensure that we support those people as much as the direct employee of Tata . one of the many benefit of Brexit have be our ability to take back control of our trade negotiation . the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership be one of the most exciting , so will the Minister provide an update on the status of our accession to CPTPP ? I be delighted to be able to do so , and delight to have such an enthusiastic supporter of CPTPP , which be an enormous benefit to this country . the UK joining will take its share of global gdp from around 11 % to just over 15 % . the UK will be the first country ever to accede to CPTPP , which include most of the fast grow market in the Asia - Pacific region : the UK join show that it go beyond the region . on accession , we be delighted that Royal Assent have be give to our Trade ( Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans - Pacific Partnership ) Act 2024 , and we be look forward to UK ratification in the come week . three of the 11 party have ratify so far — Japan , Chile and Singapore — and we look forward to further party ratify it in the come week , to make progress on this extraordinary opportunity for this country . last year , the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee hear that the lack of a coherent agritrade policy , together with a complex set of import and export certification rule , be prevent rural business , particularly food producer , from trade outside the UK . how will the Department support UK producer to deal with complex trade red tape ? I give evidence in front of the EFRA Committee just last week on this very issue with our Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries , my right hon . friend the Member for Sherwood ( Sir Mark Spencer ) . we put in a huge amount of resource . we have a number of commissioner and trade support people around European Union country and around the world promote agrifood export . I add that we also have a record level of service and export to the EU , some of which will be in the agriculture sector . we have , contrary to the constant doom and gloom that the hon . Lady bring to this question time every five week , a very good story to tell about the success of the United Kingdom when it come to trade . scottish salmon be just one of the scottish business that serve to prop up the fail UK economy , yet trade organisation Salmon Scotland reveal recently that the salmon industry in Scotland be lose £ 100 million a year in trade with the EU . since 2019 , that have amount to a 17 % drop in trade . what message do the Secretary of State have for this business in Scotland , where all business and two third of the electorate reject this hard Tory Brexit ? we hear this from the Scottish National party all the time , oppose everything in term of UK trade agreement . it be actually scottish good that benefit from so many of these trade agreement that we have negotiate , such as whisky when it come to the australian and New Zealand deal and the come deal we hope to do with India . all these deal benefit scottish good in particular , yet the SNP have oppose or abstain on every single trade deal that have ever be do by either this country or by the European Union . [ interruption . ] the hon . Gentleman know it be true . the SNP have abstain on Japan and on Singapore ; it be against Canada , against South Africa , against Korea , against Australia and against New Zealand ; and its member even fail to show up on the Ukraine agreement . it be a woeful record when it come to support Scotland from the SNP . what action be the Government take to strengthen critical supply chain ? the Government launch our critical import and supply chain strategy early this year , and I chair the Critical Imports Council last month . we be bring together 23 organisation to make sure that our supply chain be robust , and I look forward to my hon . friend ' s input into that . the village of Kirkliston in my community recently become the late to lose its post office — there have be a whole series of closure . that community be not isolate , but it be not in the centre of Edinburgh , and there be no alternative . as I say , it be one of a series , so can the Minister tell we what the Government be go to try to do to halt this decline in post office ? as I say in response to an early question , we put in £ 50 million to support the uncommercial part of the network . I be sorry that the post office that the hon . Lady mention have close . I be happy to meet she to see what we can do to ensure that there be a local post office . there be network access requirement on the Post Office , and 99 % of the population must be within 3 mile of a post office . if that be not the case in her area , I be happy to do what I can to ensure that that be rectify . when the Minister for Trade Policy , the right hon . member for Chelsea and Fulham ( Greg Hands ) , brag to my hon . friend the Member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) early that his trade envoy have to have a qualification of " diplomacy and discretion " , do he have in mind the former trade envoy to Colombia , the hon . member for Fylde ( Mark Menzies ) ? if the opposition want to make an accusation , they should go ahead and do so , rather than this playground game that they be play , which be insulting to every trade envoy , on both side of the House , who be deliver for this country . Green Resource Engineering Ltd , a highly successful company in Willand , already export £ 1 million of engineering business to South Korea every year and have do so for the last six year . the manage director , Richard Booth , let I know that export to Korea be already straightforward ; by contrast , get part in from Europe have become a real headache . rather than fret about a free trade agreement with Korea , how be the Government monitor additional red tape after have leave the european single market ? we have the most comprehensive free trade agreement with the EU — more than with any other country in the world — so that should not be the reason for difficulty in bring in component . if the hon . Member have something specific that we can look at , I will be happy to take a look , but we have be do everything to ensure that trade — in auto in particular — continue to boom , and it be boom . we be able to stop the issue with rule of origin , which be go to have a deadline at the end of this year . in term of specific component that be have trouble get across the border , I will need a bit more detail to provide he with an answer , but that be not about leave the EU . India be the second large market for scottish whisky in the world , make it an extremely important market for the scottish economy . currently , whisky export to India have a 150 % import tariff place on it . what step be the Secretary of State take to ensure that , in any trade deal sign with India , that tariff be reduce ? we be engage in a live negotiation with India at the moment and the hon . member would not expect I to comment on the progress of a live negotiation . India be obviously in a pre - election period as well . however , I can tell he that Scotch whisky tariff be very much part of that negotiation ; everybody know that that be one of the key UK objective . may I perhaps add that , if we do get a good deal on Scotch whisky , I will look forward to the SNP for the first time actually vote for a trade deal with India ? do my right hon . friend agree that it would be odd and inappropriate for the United Kingdom to impose any form of arm embargo against Israel when his Majesty ' s armed force be in the region and work with Israel to provide humanitarian support , and the UK would expect Israel to help in the protection of his Majesty ' s force ? my right hon . and learn Friend make a good point . the Prime Minister address this issue yesterday . I know that there be a lot of interest in arm export to Israel , and yesterday my entire Department be blockade by protester , mean that civil servant who need to get to work could not do so . the Government continue to monitor closely the situation in Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories . all export licence application be assess on a case - by - case basis against the strategic export licensing criterion . the Government take their defence export responsibility extremely seriously and operate some of the most robust export control in the world . could the Secretary of State explain what she be do to help business in my constituency that have difficulty because we do not have the skill to increase the business — they can not expand because they lack some skill ? could she explain what she be do to help with that skill shortage ? I thank my hon . friend for championing business in her constituency . we be put £ 3 . 8 billion into skill training for people who work for business , which be important . we be also improve skill for entrepreneur and business owner through our help to grow management programme — it can be find on the help to grow webpage — a 12 - week mini - MBA , which be 90 % fund by the Government . we also have " help to grow : Management Essentials " , which offer two hour of totally free online training for aspirant new business owner . can the Secretary of State tell we about the UK ' s supply of cyber - security professional and whether a lot of that work be now be offshore ? I be afraid that I do not have the detail to answer that question . on the face of it , give the information I have , it be not something I have hear before , but we can write back with more information . however , it do not sound like that be the case . in my constituency we have the fantastic company Selwyn ' s , whose seafood be first class . it export a lot ; what be the Government ' s current assessment of the export of cockle and other seafood in the Welsh market ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question and her interest in this important sector . we regularly meet the UK seafood sector , which can often be subject to very high tariff from foreign market , but the UK ' s quality shine through . it be a key part of many of our current trade negotiation . I urge she to watch this space . we be always happy to meet the company concern , but I can reassure she that when it come to seafood export , the Department be constantly engage both in trade policy and in the support we give our exporter . business of the House could I please ask the Leader of the House for the forthcoming business ? the business for the week commence 6 May will include : Monday 6 May — the House will not be sit . Tuesday 7 May — general debate on defence . Wednesday 8 May — consideration in Committee of the Finance ( no . 2 ) Bill . Thursday 9 May — general debate on miner and mining community , follow by a general debate on the BBC mid - term charter review . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 10 May — the House will not be sit . the provisional business for the week commence 13 May include : Monday 13 May — motion to approve the draft Procurement Regulations 2024 , follow by a motion to approve the draft Agriculture ( Delinked Payments ) ( reduction ) ( England ) Regulations 2024 , follow by debate on a motion on the risk - base exclusion of member of Parliament . Tuesday 14 May — motion to approve the draft Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) Act 1992 ( Amendment of Schedule A2 ) Order 2024 , follow by a motion to approve the draft code of practice on fair and transparent distribution of tip . Wednesday 15 May — remain stage of the Criminal Justice Bill ( day 1 ) . Thursday 16 May — business to be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 17 May — private member ' Bills . I thank the Leader the House for the forthcoming business . I pay tribute to the former Member for Hazel Grove Lord Stunell , who sadly pass away this week . our thought be with his family and friend . I welcome to our Benches my hon . friend the Member for Central Suffolk and North Ipswich ( Dr Poulter ) . his word on how the Government have run down our NHS speak for million . it be remarkable that the conservative majority of 80 have be almost halve in four year . this week , there have be a victory for the victim of the infected blood scandal regard the deadline for compensation . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) for her tireless work on this cause . could the Leader of the House outline when the timetable for compensation will be set out ? close to home , people across south Wales be trouble by the job loss at Tata Steel in Port Talbot . will the Government work with Tata to ensure that compulsory redundancy will be avoid ? time be of the essence , and there be worried steelworker family across south Wales . the business for next week be light , with no vote until Wednesday . we can guess why the Prime Minister would want to keep his parliamentary colleague off the estate . the internal politic of the Tory party have become so febrile that they be get in the way of good governance . while our constituent face ever high bill , the Government have simply run out of steam . tomorrow , we will hear the verdict of the voter . in recent month we have begin to see the runner and rider for the next Tory leadership contest . the Leader of the House say that she have the Prime Minister ' s back . coincidentally , she have be support her colleague up and down the country . follow on from schnapps with Shapps , can we look forward to gin with Jenrick or perhaps Pimm ' s with Penny ? I be a scrabble fan , but there be a new game of political Cluedo come along . who could be the one to strike the fatal blow against the Prime Minister ? will it be cocktail with Kemi in the garden ? my money be on the Leader of the House with the sharpen Telegraph column in the drawing room . another possible leadership contender be the Foreign Secretary , Lord Cameron . have he recuse himself from part of his role ? that point be raise twice last week at Cabinet Office question , with no clarity provide . our parliamentary scrutiny be weaken when the Foreign Secretary be out of reach in the other place . Lord Cameron have unanswered question from member of this House . he be yet to reply to my letter ask about his time at scandal - hit Greensill Capital . one question be about his use of private plane and personal taxation . we learn this week that Lord Cameron still enjoy VIP air travel . taxpayer have to foot the bill for his trip to central Asia in a luxurious private jet . how do the Leader of the House think that look to struggle family across our country deal with a cost of living crisis ? we wish the Leader of the House , the Foreign Secretary and fellow leadership rival well . we may well see they tour the tv studio . the Prime Minister have hint that he may call a general election this summer if his party perform well today , or he may cling on as the clock run down . Mr Speaker , you can understand the Prime Minister ' s hope that something will crop up , but after 14 year in charge it be clear that it be time for change . each Thursday morning , the Leader of the House put on a good turn . some say it be a dress rehearsal for the following Wednesday lunchtime . who know ? this time it may come to pass . first of all , I would like to join the hon . gentleman in pay tribute to Lord Stunell of Hazel Grove , who sadly pass away on Monday . he enter the House of Commons in 1997 , leave for the Lords in 2015 . he be parliamentary Under - Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government in the coalition Government and I know member on all side of the House will mourn his loss . on our Benches , we be particularly grateful to he for be an effective and collaborative Minister in the coalition , work alongside colleague to bring in the Localism Act 2011 and draw up the national planning policy framework . I hope that the many tribute pay to he in the come day will be a comfort to his loved one . I join with the many remark make by colleague regard the tragic loss of Daniel Anjorin , and also the incident in Sheffield . my thought , and I be sure those of the whole House , be with all those affect , especially Daniel ' s family . I also pay tribute to the police for their courage . they often get a hard time from we in this place , but we should never forget the risk they take and the service they do we . I know the House will also be glad to see his Majesty the King out and about with the public again . I wish all candidate in today ' s election good luck . the hon . Gentleman tempt I , but I be go to resist , because there be nothing I could say that would be more detrimental to the hon . member for Central Suffolk and North Ipswich ( Dr Poulter ) — to his character , his integrity , his standing in his community and his future prospect — than what he have do to himself . I think that be just about dawn on he . I , too , welcome the progress on the infected blood issue . the hon . Gentleman know that the Paymaster General have set out the timetable for the body to be establish on 20 May . we now have a clear timetable that I hope will give confidence to all those infected and affect by this terrible scandal . I will certainly make sure that the hon . Gentleman ' s comment on Tata Steel be hear by the Secretary of State . I have to break it to the hon . Gentleman that it be not go to be Pimm ' s with Penny . I be more of a pint with Penny person . but yes , I too have read that I be to be instal , rather like a new boiler , into no . 10 next week . I have to say , Mr Speaker , that there be as much truth to those story as there be to labour ' s assurance to its business community that it be not actually go to do the thing that it have be say it be go to do and have promise its union paymaster . let I say again that I support our Prime Minister , and I will continue to support he after this weekend and beyond , because his plan be work . I will do everything I can to ensure that Labour do not get a chance to wreck the nation again . the nation have choose a new trajectory to protect its border , to enable growth , and to trade more with the world to strengthen its partnership with ally . our export be 2 % above 2018 level , and we be the fourth large exporter overall and the large net exporter of financial and insurance service in the world . trade barrier have lead to a £ 15 billion uplift for UK business in the last five year , and since 2010 UK manufacturing growth have be high than that of any other G7 nation . we be on the right path , and we have to stick to it . I do not want to give Labour the chance to unpick all that we have do , from Brexit to trade union reform . the hon . Gentleman ask about a general election , and whether something be go to crop up . I think that something be go to crop up . whether it be pension , the NHS , rail , tax or welfare , the Labour party claim that it be go to do one thing but be plan another , and I think that the public will see through that . it be the most audacious deception since the big bad wolf don a winceyette nightie and ask Little Red Riding Hood to admire his upper denture , but unlike red Riding Hood the british people have meet this wolf before , and they remember that the story do not end well . the british people remember how disastrously Labour run our train , and we have read this week that to improve efficiency , Labour plan to run few train . they remember MRSA - infect hospital , and they be now see the unforgivable state of the NHS in Wales as it struggle with a reduced budget . labour be responsible for that , as it be Labour that cut the NHS budget . they remember Labour council tax hike for pensioner and other on fix income , which constitute the large increase in their outgoing . in government labour double council tax , and in Wales it have triple it . the british public will look at the council league table , out today , and notice that the bad service be provide by Labour council , those charge the high taxis be labour local authority , and the area with the bad crime rate be Labour - control ; and where do we see the low employment rate , the small pay packet and the bad NHS waiting list in the whole UK ? in labour - run Wales . always , every single time labour be in office , every single time the british people give Labour a chance , they find themselves bad off , poor and less safe , badly serve and with more unemployment , and they see that the nation be weak . at least those in the Labour party be consistent . so I say to the british people , " Don ' t give they the chance to do it again . " further business will be announce in the usual way . I call the Father of the House . the question of local council election have be raise . those who want some amusement can read Acts 5 : 41 , quote in today ' s Times and provide by the Bible Society , although I be not suggest that my right hon . friend should read it now . I walk here today through Victoria Tower Gardens , where it be still impossible to walk along the river because of the barricade around the Buxton memorial fountain , which be far too extensive . if people care about memorial in Victoria Tower Gardens , they ought to make sure that the garden be properly accessible whenever that be possible . the Select Committee on the Holocaust Memorial Bill report recently in document hc121 , and I have table early - day motion 711 — I do not expect my right hon . friend to respond to this today . [ that this House note the First Special Report of the Holocaust Memorial Bill Select Committee , hc121 , on the problem with the current proposal and the restriction face by the Committee consider the hybrid Bill ; respect the conclusion and recommendation on page 20 ; agree with the list of matter relate to the current proposal for a Holocaust Memorial and believe these need update attention on deliverability from the Infrastructure Commission , from the National Audit Office on likely capital cost and recurrent annual cost , from the Chancellor on future funding control , and from the police and security service on maintain unfettered public access for use of Victoria Tower Gardens while protect the Memorial ; ask his Majesty ' s Government and the Holocaust Memorial Foundation agency to commission the view of the property consultant on a comparison of the current proposal by Sir David Adjaye in Victoria Tower Gardens with viable alternative , to commission the full appraisal and to hold a public consultation on the selection of site ; and far ask his Majesty ' s Government to commit to have this or an amend proposal consider first by the local planning authority before consider whether to call in the application , note that an open - minded observer could doubt another minister in the Levelling up department should be ask to make an independent decision on an application by the Secretary of State . ] as the Committee have clearly indicate , before the Government think of bring the Bill back to the Chamber of the House of Commons they need to do a number of thing . first , they must review security . we have see the Holocaust memorial in Hyde Park cover up because of marche go on around London , and everyone know that a memorial in Victoria Tower Gardens of the kind that be propose would be a major target . the only way of provide security be to exclude the public from this park , which be the only park for local resident . secondly , the National Infrastructure Commission have say that this project be undeliverable . will the Government please ask the member of the commission whether they have change their mind ? last year the National Audit Office report that the cost have rise in one year from £ 102 million to £ 137 million . will the Government please ask its member whether that can be review ? how will the Chancellor agree to pay run cost of between £ 5 million and £ 10 million ? I think that the Government ought to delay , do what be suggest in my early - day motion , and then report back to the House . it might be more helpful if the Father of the House apply for an Adjournment debate . I be sure that my hon . friend know how to apply for a debate and will listen to your encouragement , Mr Speaker . I will certainly ensure , as I do every week , that the Secretary of State have hear the issue that my hon . friend raise — I will feed they in . on the matter of security , he will know that there be a work group , lead by the Houses of Parliament and those in Government , to make sure that all these very important issue be look at . I call the SNP spokesperson . just when we think the Government can stoop no lower , they release a sicken detention video , use real - life trauma to show their voter how tough they be . who instruct the civil service to produce such a piece ? can we have an apology from the Home Office for its appalling misjudgment in electioneer with this footage , and a debate on whether the concept of electoral purdah still exist ? if it do , who the heck regulate it ? meanwhile , the disastrously handle Brexit border check be cause further chaos , as predict . the Leader of the House may have see the report from the Sevington inland border facility about lorry with perishable good , the prospect of rot food and flower be bin , compromise biosecurity and , of course , crash IT system . we have confusion , delay and additional crippling cost — otherwise know as Brexit . I be in the House yesterday for the statement that the Business and Trade Secretary hurriedly bring out , and she seem to brush aside these failure to prepare as mere supply chain issue , prefer to brag about Brexit . the thing be , her figure rely on a growth in service export — City pal be do very well . meanwhile , the British Chambers of Commerce , which know a thing or two about the issue , describe the much - warn - of mess at Sevington as " the straw that break the camel ' s back " for many UK business . this be terribly serious for our small and medium - sized enterprise , particularly our farmer and fisher . do the Government care ? for the third time , I ask the Leader of the House for an urgent debate specifically on the Tory trade tax so that someone can be hold responsible to the House for this cack - handed mess . will she take it up ? it seem that business question have become nothing more than a venue for parade opinion . as Madam Deputy Speaker have to remind the Leader of the House and the shadow Leader of the House last week , business question be about the business of this House , so can we leave the scripted opinion on Scotland and her government to one side for once and have a debate , in Government time , on the unbelievable mess at Sevington and its impact on the wide supply chain ? or will she , too , just ignore this crisis of her own Government ' s make , raise a laugh for her nervous Back Benchers and opine on Scotland instead — a country about which she know little and care less ? the first issue that the hon . Lady raise be a matter of taste about video that I understand the Home Office have produce , which show , I assume for the reassurance of the british public , that those who do not have the right to remain in the UK will be deport . there be image of people be put into the back of police vehicle . Scotland have produce quite a few similar video — although the people be put into the back of police car have be member of the SNP . I will certainly ensure that the Home Secretary have hear the hon . Lady ' s concern , and that they be take into account . the hon . Lady assert various thing about the border operating model . many of the thing that she point to be not true . the system have not go down , and she be incorrect about the other issue that her party have be report . some customer be have issue , but they be be resolve . I really hope that the SNP will one day acknowledge the hard work of Scotland ' s business community , include business that be provide service and export they around the world . we be the large net exporter of financial and insurance service , and many of those business be in the hon . Lady ' s constituency and the surround area . Edinburgh be the second large financial centre in Europe , behind only the City of London , which be something to be immensely proud of . the work that we be do not just on trade deal , but on our memorandum of understanding — for example , with the United States at state level — mean that it be easy for an accountant in her constituency to work on a project in the United States than it be for an accountant in the state next door . that be something to be celebrate , and have lead to our be the fourth large exporter overall . I hope that the hon . Lady might reflect on that and consider it in her exchange with I next week . I be proud of the work that I and colleague across the House do , along with our dear , depart friend Sir David Amess , to raise the issue of endometriosis , a terrible disease that affect million of woman across the country . it be only since we start to raise the issue around it that its profile have rise . I be surprised to learn how many young woman do not know about the disease , which be not in the sex and health education curriculum in school . can we have a debate , through the Department for Education , on ensure that gynaecological disease be in the curriculum for both girl and boy , because if someone do not know a disease exist , how will they know they might have it ? I thank my right hon . friend for all the work he be do alongside the all - party parliamentary group on endometriosis to raise awareness of this condition and to ensure that there be improve care . he will know that we have invest £ 25 million to roll out woman ' s health hub across the country , not just to tackle backlog but to provide information and raise awareness . I will ensure that the Secretary of State for Education have hear what he have say today . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . I apologise to the House for my absence over the last two week . I be glad to say that thing be improve as we deal with a very difficult family situation . the Leader of the House be kind enough to mention that the Backbench Business Committee have be allocate Thursday 16 May , and it will be our intention to put on a debate on the parliamentary ombudsman ' s report on the state pension age for woman . all Chamber slot up to the Whitsun recess be now allocate , but we still have several Westminster Hall slot to allocate for the new , improved start time of 12 . 30 pm on Thursdays , which seem to be work quite well . we have three slot to allocate between now and the Whitsun recess , and we would welcome application . Mr Speaker , I be sure you will agree that there be no need for the hon . gentleman to apologise . I hope he hear all our good wish to he and his family while he be away . I thank the hon . Gentleman again for advertise the forthcoming Backbench Business debate . the Women against State Pension Inequality Campaign be a topic that many member will welcome , and they will want to attend and take part . I also thank the hon . gentleman for be greatly responsible for the new Westminster Hall start time , which he have also advertise today . transport for the East Midlands have find that 60 % of driver feel unsafe drive on the A1 , and over half report either be in an accident or know someone who have be in one . in 2022 , there be 500 collision on the A1 , which be 26 % more than on the A5 and 16 % more than on the A2 . can we please have a debate in Government time on safety upgrade to the A1 ? this affect dozen of constituency , as the A1 be the long road in this country . will my right hon . Friend also kindly advise on when we can expect to see the next review of upgrade a road to motorway ? this be the no . 1 issue for my constituent . I have sit in traffic on the A1 on many a school run after appal accident that take one or two day to clear . I thank my hon . friend for her work on this issue , which be of huge importance to her constituent , and for her diligence in consistently raise it with the Government . she will know that the next draft of the road investment strategy , cover 2025 to 2030 , will be publish shortly , and I will ensure that the Secretary of State for Transport have hear what she have say today . I also understand that the road Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Hexham ( Guy Opperman ) , be happy to meet she to discuss these specific concern . first , I thank the Leader of the House for her kind word about Lord Stunell of Hazel Grove . we lose a wonderful friend and colleague , who , until the very end , campaign for his community and call out injustice across the country . my sincere condolence go to his family at this time . we Liberal Democrats have for many year call for tough control on UK export of arm to ensure they be not use in human right abuse . we have call for a presumption of denial to apply to country whose government be list in the Foreign Office ' s annual " Human Rights and Democracy " report . a presumption of denial would mean that the default position of the UK Government be not to permit arm export . for many year , the Foreign Office have list human right issue arise from action that the israeli Government have carry out in the occupied Palestinian Territories . in the light of a possibly imminent humanitarian catastrophe in Rafah , if the israeli Government be carry out their threat to attack , may we have an urgent debate in Government time about UK arm export to the middle east ? I send our thought to all Liberal Democrats , who have lose a treasured member of their party . it be say of Andrew Stunell that he be the activist ' activist , and I know that he will be greatly miss . on UK arm export control , the hon . Lady will know that we have stringent policy in this country and that the action that be take stem from those policy be scrutinise by this House . we take this incredibly seriously . as for the specific , I also point she to the fact that we have see Israel have to defend itself against the most unwarranted and reckless attack from Iran . it be very important not only that we say that Israel have a right to defend itself , but , because it be one of our ally and partner , that we understand our obligation to enable it to do so . these be difficult matter and she will know that both the Government ' s policy and the procedure in this House to scrutinise the action that come from this policy be stringent indeed . " the Long call " by Ann Cleeves be write about my constituency and film there . inspire by the Woodyard community centre in the novel , a number of third sector organisation be look to support and bring together different third sector group in a safe and accessible space for work , ideally breathe life back into one of the derelict building that North Devon have far too many of . might my right hon . friend lend her signature to a copy of the novel for the charity involve , in order to help raise much - need fund ? will she also help we secure a debate in Government time on how we can ensure that small third sector organisation good work together to share administrative cost ? ' I thank my hon . friend for again attend business question to shine a spotlight on some good work go on in her constituency . I would be very happy to do as she ask , and I thank she for bring this interesting initiative and the work of third sector organisation in her constituency to the House ' s attention . three member of the Williams family in Gowerton , in my constituency , have have their his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs contact address change to the same unknown address without their knowledge , consent or authorisation . as well as raise clear general data protection regulation concern , that be have huge implication for Department for Work and Pensions issue that they face , and impact on their credit score . I have see the HMRC response to the mother ' s complaint — it give no answer ; I have see all the correspondence . the family have have phone call from bailiff and they be scared . they be capable , competent people but they be unable to get a response . do the Leader of the House share my concern about this serious data breach ? will she alert and raise this issue with the relevant Ministers and Departments , and advise I on how to resolve it ? I be sorry to hear that the hon . Lady ' s constituent be suffer in that way . the situation sound completely bonker and if she give I further detail after business question , we will get it sort this afternoon . her constituent should not have to put up with that . the hon . member for Blaenau Gwent ( Nick Smith ) seem to be really pleased with the Opposition ' s new recruit , but it will make not one jot of difference to their voting figure because the hon . member for Central Suffolk and North Ipswich ( Dr Poulter ) , who have move side , be rarely in the House . I have speak before about my marriage and Civil Partnership ( Minimum Age ) Act 2022 . it come into force in February last year , and make it a criminal offence to exploit vulnerable child by arrange for they to be marry . I have speak to teacher and lecturer who know nothing about the Act . we must ensure that teacher , lecturer , faith leader and the police know how to spot the sign of potential force or arranged marriage . will the Leader of the House speak to her colleague across Government to ensure that we get these message across much more effectively to community throughout the country ? I thank my hon . friend for all the work she have do on this subject . she have campaign diligently on it , and make a huge difference to the life of many people . the forced marriage unit , which be run jointly by the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office and the Home Office , be lead the Government ' s work in this area . it be run outreach and undertaking casework , and operate both inside and outside the UK . I will ensure the relevant Minister and official have hear her suggestion on how its work can be enhance . the situation in Gaza continue to be profoundly disturbing . we need a humanitarian ceasefire , all the hostage bring home , and no incursion by the Israel Defence Forces into Rafah ; that would be catastrophic . the United Nations Relief and Works Agency be pivotal to avoid famine in Gaza and for the future of Palestinians more generally . could we have a debate in Government time on why Ministers will not yet restart funding to UNRWA , give the call by no less than the UN Secretary - General , Ant ó nio Guterres , for donor to restart that funding ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise those concern matter . I will certainly make sure that the Foreign Secretary have hear the concern he have raise . aside from the immediate issue on which the hon . Gentleman be primarily focus , UNRWA have be financially fragile for a long time , with little long - term financial planning and security . there be many issue that the Foreign Secretary and his team will want to consider before take a decision on whether to restart funding . Hayfield Lane Primary School in Doncaster be a great school , with great teacher , a great head , Mrs Tempest , and wonderful child . sadly , the Labour Mayor of Labour - control Doncaster Council have fail this great school . her dither and delay be a disaster , and it be affect our child . despite many year of letter , phone call , meeting and false promise , the school still have a leaky roof , soaked carpet , water in the electric system , mould in the classroom and a smell of damp throughout . it be a disgrace that the Mayor be allow to subject our most vulnerable — our child — to that . can we have a debate on the need for elect Mayors to step up and do their job of maintain school , like Hayfield Lane Primary School , instead of constantly blame the Government for their own shortcoming ? I thank my hon . friend for stand up for , and campaign on behalf of , parent and child in his constituency . his local authority have be allocate £ 900 , 000 for this financial year , to be prioritise across its school , include the school he mention . that be on top of the school rebuilding programme , which be transform building across the country , include three in the Doncaster local authority area . I know that my hon . friend have raise and campaign on the matter considerably . he will know that where there be serious problem with school building and the responsible body that be suppose to be look after they fail , the Department for Education will provide additional advice and support on a case - by - case basis . I will write to the Secretary of State for Education this afternoon and ask that her Department meet my hon . friend to discuss this serious matter . Doncaster local authority be fail in its duty , and that need to be address . the Leader of the House have announce all kind of worthy general debate , include on statutory instrument , leave plenty of time for Dissolution and wash - up , if need be , but she have not announce any Opposition day . she will be in receipt of a letter from the Chair of the Procedure Committee , which say : " if , however , the Government have specific proposal in relation to any change it envisage to Standing Orders " on opposition day , " the Committee would be willing to examine and consult on such proposal " . it go on : " in the meantime , however , we expect that the Government will not ' hold hostage ' the scheduling of any further Opposition day to the completion of any such work , as to do so would be profoundly unfair on opposition party . " will the Leader of the House confirm that she be not hold Opposition day hostage ? I can confirm that , and I hope to be able to schedule some more opposition day debate soon , but we want some assurance about the process that will govern they . I know that everyone agree that it be incredibly important the right of minority party be protect in this place . that be the point of those debate , and we should have confidence in they in the future . can we have a debate on antisemitism at UK university ? there be report in today ' s press that some group wish to replicate american - style protest , during which there have be riot and criminal damage . at Columbia , student have chant terrorist slogan . at Stanford , they have wear Hamas headband . at Princeton , they have fly the Hezbollah flag . at Harvard , they have tear down the star and stripe and raise a foreign one , and at George Washington , they call for the " final solution " , and post sign say that they would not disperse until Jews go back to their " real home " . we do not want this type of terrorist - support delinquency at UK university . do the Leader of the House agree that the Government and Opposition party must combine to do everything they can to stop such thing happen here ? my right hon . and learn Friend be right to draw attention to the disgusting scene that we have see in some university in the United States . those activity be be meet with the appropriate action , and some university have take a very strict stance on they . I think and hope that all UK university will be in no doubt about their responsibility to all who attend their campus and facility , but particularly those in community who feel under attack . that be what we expect of they ; we hope and expect that they will meet the notion of similar protest with an extremely strict response . the London Standard , the Slough Observer and other medium outlet have recently report serious bribery allegation make against Slough borough councillor head up the planning process . that be extremely concern . complaint and rumour have circulate around the town for month . do the Leader of the House not agree that it be critical that the police delve deeply into the matter , and do a thorough investigation , in order to restore public trust and confidence in elect representative ? not question under oath the credible business that have be brave enough to put their concern in writing , as well as those accuse of bribery , would be a huge disservice to democracy . will she also ensure that the Home Secretary take an active interest in this critical matter ? I be responsible for many thing , but operational police matter be not one of they . I will certainly make sure that the Home Secretary have hear what the hon . Member have say . the UK hedgehog population be in sharp decline . next week be Hedgehog Awareness Week and an opportunity to promote the plight of this beloved , iconic specie . it cost around £ 50 to look after a hedgehog admit to rescue . Anglesey Hedgehog Rescue be run by brilliant volunteer Sue Timperley , Debbie Evans and Chris Mead , and to raise fund , they be run a name the hedgehog competition . will the Leader of the House take part ? what would she hedgehog name be ? may I first congratulate my hon . friend on raise awareness of this much - love critter ? I also congratulate the volunteer at Anglesey Hedgehog Rescue , and I wish they well in their endeavour . give that these little creature be prickly , they move very slowly — definitely below 20 mph — and curl into a ball when challenge , I be tempt to say that Welsh Labour would be an appropriate name , but that would perhaps be do the hoglet a disservice , so instead , give that both our constituency be by the sea , how about " Urchin " ? yesterday ' s judgment from the president of the family division of the High Court concern the practice of online , Singapore - register GenderGP set out the follow fact . Testosterone be prescribe to a 15 - year - old girl with a co - morbid diagnosis of autism and anorexia , in a " negligent approach " that lead to " dangerously high " serum level , place she at " risk of sudden death " . there be no physical examination , " extremely poor quality " psychological assessment , and no record of counselling or inform consent . an NHS paediatrician check the girl ' s serum level against those of an adult male . I have ask this before , but these scandal keep happen , and I will continue to raise they in this place : can we have a full debate on how we extract gender ideology ' s influence from our public body and Government policy , and protect young people from these online charlatan ? I be very sorry to hear about the case that the hon . Gentleman raise . it be right that we should have the same scrutiny in this area of medicine as we do in any other , whether in the NHS or in private practice . I will ensure that the Secretary of State have hear what he say about that case . he will know that she be work within her jurisdiction in the NHS to ensure that healthcare professional and the body that scrutinise they know what their responsibility be , particularly in this area . I recently meet the local constituency group Pumping Marvellous , a support group for people with heart failure . member talk about how the NHS service that they use could be improve through integration — specifically through digitisation , which would enable well patient record access . in the Budget , the Chancellor announce £ 3 . 4 billion for increase NHS digital investment , which will unlock £ 35 billion of saving . can we have a debate on NHS digitisation , so that we can explore the benefit for patient , doctor and nurse , and ensure that the voice of support group and user be hear ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that . we know that where good reform have be bring in , patient outcome be vastly improve . we will all have example of that from our primary care practice , and particularly our hospital . we want to ensure that that be speed up , and that artificial intelligence help with tailor treatment and intervention and far increase good patient outcome . the opportunity be massive . it be a very good topic for a debate , and he will know how to apply for one . have the Leader of the House have a chance to read the report of the all - party parliamentary group on music , which I chair , on artificial intelligence in music ? it come out this week . if she have not , would she like I to send she a copy , so that she can consider hold a debate on the subject in Government time ? it be a key issue . this technology can bring great benefit , but we must not allow it to be our master ; it should be the servant of human creativity , and the creative community should have the right to protect their creation in any scheme that be agree between industry and tech firm . will she look at the report and consider a debate ? I congratulate the hon . Gentleman and his colleague on produce this timely and necessary report , which I be sure will be of interest to many member of this House . I would be delighted to receive a copy , and I will ensure that the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport also have one . I will invite she to follow up with he . the APPG on HIV , AIDS and sexual health , which I co - chair , welcome the recent publication by the Department of Health of the pre - exposure prophylaxis road map ; however , knowledge about PrEP remain very low among certain group , particularly in the black , asian and minority ethnic community , and among woman , so there be much more to do to raise awareness of PrEP and its possibility . will my right hon . friend facilitate a meeting between the APPG , HIV group and the Minister for public health , my right hon . friend the Member for South Northamptonshire ( Dame Andrea Leadsom ) , to see what we can do to tackle inequality in the use of PrEP ? I thank my right hon . friend for raise this issue . we have make huge progress in enable people to protect themselves through access to PrEP , but he be right that awareness of the opportunity that it provide be not universal . I will ensure that the Department of Health and Social Care have hear his concern and encourage it to do as he ask . this week we have see the incredible bravery of Metropolitan police officer in Hainault , who literally run towards a situation know that they be put themselves in personal danger and at serious risk of injury or death . two of those officer receive very serious , life - change injury . we all owe a debt of gratitude to all police officer , who on a daily basis place themselves in such circumstance to keep we all safe . that debt must also extend to obtain justice for police officer who have lose their life while on duty , and 17 April mark the 40th anniversary of the murder of WPC Yvonne Fletcher , who in 1984 be hit in the back by shot fire from inside the libyan People ' s Bureau . despite the identity of one of the offender be know , no one have ever be charge in connection with Yvonne ' s murder . may we have a debate in Government time on the circumstance surround the murder of WPC Fletcher ? first , I thank the hon . gentleman for his word about those Metropolitan police officer and the police in general . I be sure the whole House will want to send our good wish to those officer . we have hear the update that the Met chief give on their condition , and I hope all Members will join I in wish they a speedy recovery . I hope they be out of hospital soon . I will ensure that both the Foreign Secretary and the Home Secretary have hear what the hon . Gentleman have say . he will know that Ministers work on the issue and , where they be able to have bilateral with other who may be able to assist in this area , they do so — it be part of the script that they use when have those meeting — but I will ensure they have hear what he have say today . last week I go to the Aylesbury Vale young enterprise company of the year final at Aylesbury Vale Academy . the winner be a team from Aylesbury Grammar School who produce and sell biodegradable greeting card implant with wildflower seed that can be plant and grow . will my right hon . friend join I in congratulate they and all the other young enterprise finalist , and may we have a debate in Government time to underline the importance of teach the value of the private sector and of the role of business in create job , generate wealth and enable the economic growth that pay for public service ? I thank my hon . friend for allow we all to send our congratulation to Aylesbury Grammar School and all those involve in that good initiative — perhaps the House of Commons gift shop would like to stock that fantastic product . I also thank he for allow we all to reflect on the force for good in the world that enterprise and business represent in our local community , not only through support the charity sector , but through the enormous revenue they raise to keep everything that matter to we go . follow the Aberfan disaster in October 1966 , donation from around the world be use to build the Aberfan and Merthyr Vale Community Centre . the centre have be manage by a leisure trust and be home to a library , gym and swimming pool . until two day ago , it face possible closure . despite that , the trustee — none of they local — refuse to engage with I , trade union , their own staff or resident , and they only engage with the local authority at the eleventh hour . may we please have a debate on how charity trustee who hold cherished local asset can be hold to account ? I be sorry to hear about the situation in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency . lose any facility be not good for a community , but lose one with such heritage and hope for a legacy that it might deliver for its local community be very upsetting . he will know how to apply for a debate , and I encourage he to continue his work to bring together the trustee and the community . when that happen , solution be find . the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities have enable asset transfer and other thing to happen in order to allow such facility to continue , and my office stand ready to assist he in any way we can to get the right advice . the Government ' s long - term plan for town will ensure that local people can develop plan that deliver the priority of their community and be give the tool to change their town ' s long - term future . well access to finance for microbusinesse and social enterprise be a critical element of such a plan , and the Government could facilitate it through change to financial regulation . will the Leader of the House allocate Government time for a debate on the future of community enterprise and community lending , include Bank of Dave - style initiative that drive local growth ? my hon . friend raise good point and idea . she will know that the next question to the Chancellor will be on 7 May , and I encourage she to raise those matter with he then . I will give he the head - up today to ensure that he have hear her sensible suggestion . as a found member of the scottish constitutional convention , and the only Member of the present Commons whose signature be on Scotland ' s claim of right , I know one or two thing about devolution . indeed , it will very shortly be the 25th anniversary of the first sitting of the Scottish Parliament . I politely ask whether we might have a debate on how scottish devolution come into being , the ideal that lie behind it , and how the present Scottish Government be undermine those first ideal . I thank the hon . gentleman for that very good suggestion , and I be sure that such a debate would be well attend . have head up UK - wide organisation , particularly in healthcare , I know that one strength of have different system of governance to reflect different part of the UK be that they work together and learn from each other — how our four chief medical officer work together , for example . devolution be envisage as four nation work together for the common good of their citizen , but we know that be not the SNP ' s interpretation of that opportunity . that would be a good debate and I encourage he to apply for it — and if he do , I will attend . outside of London , Aberdeen have the high proportion of non - UK - bear citizen anywhere on this island . today the Home Office look set to remove and detain someone who flee persecution in their home country and have begin to build a life in Aberdeen . right now , the people of my city be out on the street make it clear that refugee be welcome in Aberdeen . what can I do to ensure that if someone be detain and remove from Aberdeen , they be give basic human necessity such as water on the hour - long journey away from our city , and to ensure that the Home Office update the MP and answer their question in relation to that detention ? the hon . Lady will know that the Home Office will always talk to member of this House about constituency case of whatever nature , but it be clear that , give our finite resource , we can honour our obligation to those seek asylum here only if our asylum system can deal with the volume of people come in . we should use those finite resource in a way that help people , but we can also choose which individual we want to help and ensure that people who do not have leave to remain in this country do not remain here . that be what this democratic Parliament have decide to do , because the british people wish we to do it . she ought to reflect on that . there be a number of body that the public rely on to be impartial and to protect the public interest , include the General Medical Council , the Solicitors Regulation Authority and the Civil Aviation Authority , to name but three . when independent regulator take money from the World Economic Forum or other vested interest , they lose their independence , so can we have a statement from the relevant Minister on how we be go to end regulatory capture , something we have see at the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency with disastrous consequence ? can that Minister also explain why the guidance to so - call independent regulator say that it regard their regulation as a tool of government ? regulator have very clear responsibility — that be well understand . member of this House will work with they on a whole raft of issue to raise concern about the sector they cover and how they be operate in their local area . if the hon . Gentleman have any specific charge of a regulator not do its job , as he know , the Department for Business and Trade will shortly be bring forward a White Paper about how we improve regulator in the UK . we be always interested in what can be improve , but he have make quite a serious allegation today , which he should follow up with the Secretary of State . as million of people across England and Wales go to vote in today ' s council election , will the Leader of the House join I in recognise the work of my constituent , the right honourable Lord Provost of Edinburgh , Robert Aldridge , who this week mark 40 year of continuous service as a councillor in Edinburgh ? that longevity be the envy of many other in scottish politic , and I be sure will be the ambition of many of those who be start their career today . however , like this place and many other part of our democracy , council do not always reflect the diversity of their area . in 2022 , the Local Government Association find that 92 % of councillor be white , 40 % be retire , 46 % have caring responsibility and just 12 % have a disability , so may we have a debate in Government time on how we could make local government role more accessible and more representative of their community ? I be sure that the whole House send its congratulation to Councillor Robert Aldridge on this landmark anniversary , and thank he for both his service and his stamina in the role . the hon . Lady raise a very important point : we want many people from many different background and with many different skill to come forward and run for office . it be an excellent topic for a debate — she will know how to apply for one — but of course we can all encourage people in our community to come forward , step up and serve . as a child of the 1970 , I be certain that the Leader of the House will value and remember fondly the performance of AC / DC . however , she may not know that AC / DC ' s frontman , Bon Scott , be no less than a child of Angus — of Kirriemuir in particular . I be certain that she will wish to welcome this weekend ' s Bonfest festival , wish it every success , and congratulate DD8 Music on the promotion of that tremendous international music festival . however , one thing that cause problem for music festival across this island be the Brexit obstruction that prevent many musician from come from the EU to perform in Scotland , and Scottish and english musician from perform in the EU . do she agree that we should have a debate in Government time about how we can well reconcile that situation with the Brexit reality that we find ourselves in ? the hon . Gentleman will not be surprised that I disagree with his characterisation of the UK ' s choice to leave the European Union as a highway to hell , but I will ensure that the relevant Minister have hear his concern . of course , I congratulate everyone involve in what sound like a very jolly festival , and I hope a good time be have by all . today we read in the press that the oil and gas company Shell will take some of its bumper profit , cream off the top of people ' s soar energy bill , and use it for share buy - back . Shell plan to start a £ 2 . 8 billion share buy - back scheme to inflate its own share price , rather than to help tackle the climate emergency or boost our economy . a 4 % tax on share buy - back as propose by the Liberal Democrats could raise about £ 2 billion per annum for our public service , so could we please have a debate on share buy - back and the potential benefit of such a levy ? the hon . Gentleman will know that , on any such proposal that the liberal Democrats wish to put forward , they can question the Chancellor next Tuesday when the House return . he will also know that the Government have do a huge amount of work with both energy company and their supplier to assist in alleviate the cost - of - living issue that household and business be face . I call Jim Shannon . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] thank you , Mr Speaker . these be the strong leg in the Chamber , without a doubt . I thank the Leader of the House for the opportunity to highlight the prevention of violation of freedom of religion or belief . it have be more than a year since the outbreak of the civil war in Sudan , and sudanese civilian certainly bear the brunt of the atrocity commit due to the fighting , with thousand kill and million internally displace . while his Majesty ' s Government be work with other to resolve the crisis , the vulnerability of Sudanese Christians have be overlook . christian and their church be be target , and there have be report of rape , kidnap and loot against Christians . even when the war end , religious minority fear future persecution . will the Leader of the House join I in condemn the atrocity against Christians in Sudan , and what can she do with the Foreign Secretary and the Government to combat these crime as they work to find a solution to the conflict ? I again thank the hon . gentleman for raise awareness of an issue that have affect enormous number of people , but do not necessarily get the airtime on the UK medium that it warrant . he will know that the Foreign Secretary and the Minister cover this region be very focused on ensure , and will do all they can to make sure , that civilian be protect and security issue be properly address . as part of that , he will know that the envoy for freedom of religion or belief and the team support that post will be very focused on this matter . as I always do , I will make sure that the Foreign Secretary have hear his concern , and I thank he . Backbench Business Security in the Western Balkans I beg to move , that this House recognise the acute security situation in the Western Balkans ; support the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Kosovo and Bosnia and Herzegovina ; condemn the attack by serb nationalist militant in Banjska , Kosovo on 24 September 2023 ; far support the authority of the Constitutional Court in Bosnia and Herzegovina ; far condemn russian interference in the Balkans ; note with concern pro - russian and pro - serbian irredentist political rhetoric in Montenegro ; and urge the Government to increase its engagement with regional partner and international ally to improve the security landscape of the Western Balkans . a pivotal moment for the western Balkans approach — a moment that will decide whether the dream of a democratic , peaceful , Euro - Atlantic , integrate Balkans can be realise , or whether we will return to the nightmare of the 1990 . without peace , there can be no progress , and with the threat of violence and the embrace of hatred , insecurity be breed . today , I hope to set out some step that the Government can take to protect peace and , as we all hope , to protect we from have to confront the dreadful alternative of conflict . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for agree to this debate , which be very much appreciated , and I welcome the ambassador of Bosnia and Herzegovina and of Kosovo to the Chamber . I want to start by discuss Bosnia and Herzegovina , which , with its multi - ethnic character and constitution , act as a linchpin for the wide region . next year , we mark the 30th anniversary of the Dayton agreement , which bring an end to the horror of the bosnian war . before the war , 34 % of people in Sarajevo be married to spouse of a different ethnicity , with child who study and play together and neighbour who cook together , but they suddenly find themselves separate by conflict , unable to understand why their world have fall apart and why those they have call friend shun and abandon they . the tragedy of the bosnian war be embody in the story of the 25 - year - old Bo š ko Brki ć and Admira Ismi ć , know as the Romeo and Juliet of Sarajevo . Bo š ko be a bosnian Serb who be deeply in love with his girlfriend Admira , a Bosniak . both be trap in the siege of Sarajevo by the bosnian serb army , and attempt to escape in 1993 , hope to continue their young life , full of hope and away from the horror of war . as they attempt to leave the city , Bo š ko be shoot by a sniper and kill instantly . another shot injure Admira , who in her last moment crawl to Bo š ko and embrace his body , eventually succumb to her wound while she hug her beloved . their final embrace , as Admira lie die , signal the unwavering strength of their bond and represent the rejection of hatred and of ethnic division . the hope of the young Romeo and Juliet of Sarajevo continue to be hold by many people across Bosnia and Herzegovina , and it be our duty to empower they to dream of that bright future , and to do all we can to limit the return of violence and more cruelty on the street . I thank my hon . friend for secure this debate at a crucial time . I do not think it an exaggeration to say that the current situation be a tinderbox and on knife edge , to mix metaphor . the story she have just relay be important . do she agree that it illustrate that the nationalistic leadership who want to stir up hatred be in such a minority , because the vast majority of the population of Bosnia and Herzegovina be unaware of their ethnic background ? they see themselves as Bosnians , and that be exploit by those nationalist tendency . my right hon . friend , unsurprisingly , be absolutely right . that be why it be so important at this time , when we see the risk of a return to the tinderbox , that we in this place attempt to safeguard the truth . we must never forget the horror of the bosnian war or the siege of Sarajevo , which be still the long in modern history and where almost 12 , 000 civilian be kill . neither should we forget the genocide of Srebrenica , where 8 , 000 man and boy be murder , or the 100 , 000 people dead and the 2 million displace . sadly , those who seek to break up Bosnia today use the past as a weapon , invert it to retraumatise victim and glorify atrocity . Milorad Dodik , the so - call President of Republika Srpska , have consistently deny the Srebrenica genocide , despite a 2021 Bosnia - wide law ban genocide denial . as we know , denial be a continuation of genocide . a group of country include Bosnia , Germany and Rwanda be bring a resolution to the UN General Assembly formally to recognise 11 July as the international memorial day for the victim of the Srebrenica genocide . the resolution be support by balkan country include Croatia , Montenegro , Albania , North Macedonia and Slovenia , yet Serbia oppose it . enshrine remembrance of the Srebrenica genocide and other victim of the bosnian war in international law send a strong message that the international community reject historical revisionism and the weaponisation of the past . it also prevent the revictimisation of survivor , and send a strong message to Milorad Dodik and all those who seek a return to the 1990 that we have not forget and we will not forget . I be grateful that the Foreign Secretary have make it clear that the UK will both vote for and promote the resolution . some , however , be seek to misrepresent that resolution . what it do not do be pass collective judgment against the people of Serbia . it be about individual responsibility and end the denial of genocide to build a well future with a common language . denial prevent community from come together and build new future , and the memory of past trauma steel we in our mission to safeguard modern - day Bosnia and Herzegovina . the Dayton agreement , to which the UK be a signatory , establish the office of high representative and the constitutional court of Bosnia to ensure the state ' s viability and development . Milorad Dodik have seek to violate the treaty , pass illegal law in Republika Srpska to reject the authority of both those entity . he be now before a court on charge relate to those violation , and if find guilty will be ban from hold office and face up to five year in prison . predictably , rather than face up to the consequence of his action , Dodik have threaten Bosnia and Herzegovina , state that Republika Srpska will secede from Bosnia if he be convict . Republika Srpska be not Dodik ; Dodik be not Republika Srpska , and he be wrong when he endanger all those who live within its environ . that cowardly attempt to shield himself behind state institution will have dire consequence for all bosnian , and the UK must be unequivocal in our support for the constitutional court and its judgment . Russia have a clear interest in foment conflict in the Balkans to distract from its renew illegal invasion of Ukraine . sadly , it hold a veto over the security framework of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the renewal of EUFOR . that consequently hand it a veto over the entire region , which be akin , some might say , to hand a match to an arsonist . eventually you will be force to put out the fire . just to illustrate where we be with Russia , Dodik give the high order of Republika Srpska to Putin . Dodik absolutely do do that . once again my right hon . friend be absolutely right . over the next few day , there will be a great Easter come together of Dodik , Vu č I ć and other around a Greater Serbia , which I will touch on briefly . I ask the Government to work with our ally to consider an alternative peacekeeping framework to eufor , lead by NATO . the Dayton agreement give NATO explicit permission to legally establish a force in Bosnia for peacekeeping without time limit or UN approval . there be widespread support from the bosnian Government , and its legality under the Dayton agreement mean that neither Dodik nor Putin could block it , unlike the current arrangement with EUFOR . as a minimum , the UK should send a NATO peacekeeping force to the strategic Br č ko district , which I be sure my right hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Beckenham ( Bob Stewart ) will speak about shortly . even one battalion of NATO troop in Br č ko would make a secession militarily impossible and have a stabilise effect on all of Bosnia ' s politic . I entirely endorse that point . a british battalion position in Bosnia would give a very strong signal . frankly , a british battalion be probably the good battalion to send into such a peacekeeping situation . my right hon . and gallant Friend be absolutely right . to that point , I know that the Foreign Secretary , in answer question from member in the other place yesterday , say that he would prefer to emphasise and focus on Kosovo , but we see that when british troop go into Kosovo last September , there be a resurgence in the delivery of the mandate . my right hon . and gallant Friend be right that british troop would make a fundamental difference . the fact that the Dayton agreement give we explicit permission to create a new security force mean that we should actively be debate it . finally , the UK should look at extend the sanction levy against Dodik and other senior figure in his circle , which I be relieve to secure a few year ago . the joint sanction with the UK and the US have begin to take serious effect , with bosnian bank close the account of those target . I urge the Government to consider sanction other figure from Republika Srpska who support law design to undermine the high representative and the constitutional court , promote genocide denial and glorification , and attempt to transfer bosnian state asset to their personal control . Bosnia , with its multi - ethnic character and constitution , be a barometer for the entirety of the western Balkans . when threaten the break - up of Bosnia , Dodik say : " if anybody try to stop we , we have friend who will defend we . " I say , let we show he that Bosnia , too , have friend , and none more steadfast than the United Kingdom . now be the time for deterrence , diplomacy and a rejuvenate NATO to take the initiative and ensure that Bosnia ' s sovereignty and security be protect . while the situation in Bosnia be tense , Kosovo be the only country in the western Balkans to have face an attack on its soil since our last debate on the western Balkans . the Banjska attack carry out last September see 30 heavily armed serb militant murder a Kosovan police officer , Afrim Bunjaku , before engage in a firefight from the Banjska monastery . the amount of weaponry seize from the militant be truly extraordinary . I have see it myself , and I refer to my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I thank the hon . member for secure today ' s important debate on security in the western Balkans . on a recent visit to Serbia as part of a cross - party parliamentary delegation , I witness the immense potential as well as the stark challenge in the region . do she agree that the UK Government must do their level well to help to defuse tension between Serbia and Kosovo , to ensure that the right of minority on both side of the border be protect and , crucially , to promote democracy by do their level well to reduce russian influence in the region and in Serbia ? without question , everyone must help to defuse the situation and everyone must support ethnic minority , and we should be clear that we in this place , as I will say later in my speech , want to be a friend to a democratic Serbia . that be what we all aspire to in the region . to go back to the Banjska attack , the arsenal of those 30 militant include 41 anti - tank rocket launcher , 66 automatic rifle , two automatic grenade launcher , four mortar , two armoured vehicle and more than 50 kg of explosive . the weapon serial number line up . those be not miscellaneous item . nor be they old or expired stock — some be just a couple of year old . I be sure the Minister will agree that such a level of weaponry be not typical for provincial militia . it therefore beg the question : who be support the Banjska attacker and why ? the answer may lie in some of the footage recover from those who undertake the attack , which show the militant train in a serbian military base on 20 September , just four day before the attack . likewise , some of those aforementioned serial number on the weaponry match up to the maintenance document record the same weapon as belong to the serbian military . countless time in the House — in writing and in private meeting — I have ask the Government to release an assessment of whether the serbian state provide material and strategic support for the Banjska attack . the US have complete a report on who be responsible and their link to the serbian Government . our ally need to release that urgently because truth matter and accountability matter . without that report , the truth be deny and there be no deterrence , because impunity breed contempt for the rule of law and order . swift and equitable accountability for act of aggression be crucial if we want to discourage future violence and dispel any notion of appeasement . so I ask again : who organise the Banjska attack , who provide the weaponry and what do we assess be their intent ? I would be grateful if the Minister answer that when he respond . what we do know beyond doubt be that the attack be lead by Milan Radoi č I ć , a former vice - president of the Srpska Lista party . the current wave of tension in northern Kosovo explode when Srpska Lista orchestrate an electoral boycott of municipal election last May . without the participation of Kosovan Serbs , the election return albanian mayor . the installation of the mayor by the Kosovan Government spark unrest . we have all speak about how risky that be , include I directly to the Government . however , we then see a violent attack on Kosovo Force — KFOR — by serbian militia that injure 25 italian and hungarian troop , some of whom will never walk again . at the time , the UK , the US and the EU condemn Kosovo for instal the democratically elect mayor , but do not criticise Serbia for its support of the boycott and Srpska Lista . I write a joint statement , sign by 74 parliamentarian from Europe — include almost every chair of a Foreign Affairs Committee in Europe — the US and Canada , ask for a fairer approach to the crisis and for Kosovo not to be single out . the statement , and multiple vote and debate in the EU Parliament , have show that the international community want to see a more even - handed approach to Kosovo and Serbia . Kosovo have since , under international pressure , facilitate a referendum in the northern municipality to allow election for new mayor . Srpska Lista again orchestrate a boycott , frustrate the democratic process and inflame intercommunal tension even far . the US have be clear now , however , that Kosovo have fulfil its democratic obligation and the northern mayor be legitimate . the EU , unfortunately , have be less clear in its messaging , insist on a " both sidery " approach . can the Minister confirm that the UK recognise that Kosovo have attempt to rectify the situation under its constitution and that , regardless of boycott by Srpska Lista , the current mayor be legitimate , regardless of their ethnicity ? I also point out how disappointing it be that ethnicity continue to play such an important role in the Balkans . despite constant impediment by Russia and Serbia , Kosovo be on the verge of membership of the Council of Europe , with its application move to the Committee of Ministers for approval this month . membership would mark a vital milestone in Kosovo ' s progress from the dark day of the 1990 . Kosovo ' s journey be one in which we have play an important role , which we should all be proud of . however , some internationally have say that Kosovo should be admit only if it create an association of Serb - majority municipality . the UK should reject that firmly . while I do not want another Republika Srpska in the western Balkans at all , an ASM will be create as part of the Belgrade - Pristina dialogue , but it can not be rush or extract through external pressure . can the Minister confirm that the Foreign Secretary will vote for Kosovo ' s admission to the Council of Europe this month , regardless of progress on the ASM , and encourage all ally to do so ? more broadly , the UK , as a former member of the Quint , should assume a more active role in the peace talk . our current passivity be untenable in the face of such a volatile situation . we be no long constrain by EU consensus and non - recogniser , and we must be more inventive in diplomacy . we must find not just our voice but our backbone , stop stand on the sideline and take action when we have a duty to support our ally . equally , the UK should be engage with the five EU state that do not recognise Kosovo ' s sovereignty to help boost Kosovo ' s trajectory towards EU and NATO membership while solidify the inviolability of its territorial integrity . the US and the EU should also adopt a resolute posture when address Serbia ' s leadership for their role in stoke instability , align with Putin and increase autocratic tendency at home and abroad . the UK and Kosovo have a fantastic relationship , and I thank the Foreign Secretary for visit Kosovo early this year to demonstrate that partnership . the bond be forge during NATO ' s intervention in 1999 , when british troop help to avert further atrocity and put Kosovo on a path towards democracy , which it have fully embrace . our armed force continue to play a role . after the Banjska attack , the Princess of Wales Royal Regiment quickly deploy to bolster KFOR , act professionally to defuse the situation . likewise , the Royal Regiment of Fusiliers deploy last year in a period of heighten tension . the british Army be highly respected and appreciate , and I be sure the whole House will join I in thank each and every soldier who serve there with distinction . they make an enormous difference . I urge the Government to work with NATO partner to ensure that KFOR be give the support and tasking it need to maintain peace and stability across Kosovo . we should consider the establishment of a new security alliance between the US , the UK and other willing NATO member state with Kosovo to help to allay the immediate security concern . let I give an example of why that be need . last December , President Vu č I ć say that Serbia should simply follow the example of Azerbaijan in Nagorno - Karabakh and wait for special geopolitical circumstance to allow it to reclaim Kosovo . that be a statement of intent and should not be ignore . such comment from a head of state be unacceptable . indeed , Vu č I ć threaten I last year for speak out against the smuggling of weapon into Kosovo . my warning be decry by many , yet what I predict devastatingly come to pass in Banjska . I be grateful to the Speaker and to this House for the support I be give at that time . there be also report of electoral irregularity during the serbian election and the bussing in of people , follow by the opposition MP Nikola Sandulovi ć be kidnap and brutally beat by serbian authoritarian terrorist . it be fitting that the serbian opposition operate under the banner of " Serbia against violence " . we in this House want to be friend with a democratic Serbia . we want free and fair serbian election . there need to be political reform , and that begin with free and fair election . I fear that we be not see that , especially with Xi Jinping today in Serbia encourage it to join BRICS . during a recent cross - party parliamentary delegation visit to Albania , we witness for ourselves — thank to fruitful meeting with the President , the Speaker , Ministers , mps and other to help strengthen tie — that Albania be a close , trust ally in defence and migration . the UK Government be help to support a great deal of work to tackle modern slavery . we also witness the UK Government support youth initiative in Kuk ë s . there be also considerable concern in Albania , and during my recent meeting with the british albanian diaspora , about the sovereignty of Kosovo . do the hon . Lady agree that the British Government must work with Albania and other ally to ensure that we help to protect Kosovan sovereignty ? yes , we must do that . I have hope to touch on Montenegro , but I will conclude . we can protect the truth in Bosnia by vote for a UN resolution to commemorate the Srebrenica genocide . we can end Dodik ' s threat of secession by transition to a NATO - lead peacekeeping mission under the provision of the Dayton agreement . we can continue our successful programme of sanction to shut down the account of those who threaten peace . in Kosovo , we can build on the UK ' s proud legacy by vote to admit Kosovo to the Council of Europe , and we can redouble our commitment to KFOR and extend its mandate by take a more proactive approach to counter militia and criminality . we can commit to a fair and more even - handed approach to the Belgrade - Pristina dialogue , and in Serbia we can work with international partner to promote free and fair election and a media environment . we must be clear that we stand on the side of the people of Serbia , and that irredentist dream care little about the people of the Balkans . it be within our power to support stability and security through deterrence and be resolute in our commitment to the region . inaction be a choice that we can not make . we must not step back and we must not look away . I call Jim Shannon . thank you so much for call I so early , Madam Deputy Speaker . I really appreciate that . I be rather catch off balance , to be truthful . I check with Mr Speaker that it be constitutionally all right for I to do that . we be both rather surprised to find this situation . Madam Deputy Speaker , you , Mr Speaker and I very much believe in the constitution , so we be on the same page . thank you so much . I commend the hon . member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) for lead the debate with such a detailed and helpful contribution . I also commend she for her leadership as Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , and for her stance in this Chamber on these issue in relation to not just the Balkans , but everywhere . she know I be impress by her contribution and what she do . the current security situation in the western Balkans have prompt considerable international concern . the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , with its history of engagement and long - stand partnership in the region , have also raise its voice to the challenge that threaten the development of the western Balkans into a more stable and resilient region . with that in mind , it be really important to be here to discuss how we can provide further support and do more . there be more elegant speaker than I in the Chamber . I look forward to everyone ' s contribution . the situation be particularly worry due to russian interference that continue to destabilise and polarise the region . the hon . Lady refer to that in her introduction . Russia consider the western Balkans as an important region in which to exercise its foreign policy by incite instability and division , ultimately aim to assert its place as a great power in the region . medium and disinformation be some of Russia ' s great tool in accomplish that , and it use they in Ukraine and all over the world . it be not the only one do it . Russia continue to interfere in the politic of Montenegro , often through Serbia ; some nationalist Serbs in Montenegro be use medium , specifically social network , to promote Russia and pro - serbian irridentist political rhetoric . the gravity of the situation be clear . I be concerned that any russian involvement in the western Balkans serve only to undermine democracy , escalate tension and destabilise the region . indeed , in the axis of evil , Russia be right there lead at the top of the pyramid , along with other across the world . I be very much look forward to the contribution of the shadow Ministers and , in particular — if I can say so , Madam Deputy Speaker — my good friend the Minister , who always encapsulate our thought and concern in a way that encourage we . I look forward to what he will say . I think it be the hon . member for Rutland and Melton who , in November 2022 , instigate the last debate on the western Balkans . I speak in that debate — I think that be the last time we debate this issue — and I reaffirm my position that Putin ' s regime be the great threat to prosperity and peace in the Balkans . I condemn any russian interference in the region . I ask our Government , our Minister and other to join I and other in this House in do so . it be clear that Russia be a danger to peace not only in the Balkans , but in the world , and in Europe in particular . be it any wonder that many other country — Latvia , Lithuania , Estonia , Poland , Germany and all those within the russian axis some time ago — all fear their very survival from Russia ' s intent ? the Russia - Ukraine crisis pose an additional concern to security and stability in the western Balkans . while Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine prompt some Balkan government to distance themselves from Moscow , Serbia have show its commitment to its strong tie with Russia by refuse to support the EU sanction regime amidst the ongoing conflict . again , the influence of the axis of evil be clear . it rely on Russia for gas and oil , and on Russia ' s support for its denial of Kosovo ' s independence . however , Serbia ' s support for the UN resolution denounce russian aggression against Ukraine and its refusal to recognise russian annexation of ukrainian territory suggest that Russia be gradually lose its stronghold on the country . only time will tell , but it would be very helpful , Minister , to have the thought of the Government and the Department on that . do they see a gradual move away by Serbia from russian influence ? some indication show that , but whether they be strong enough and deep enough only time will tell . the hon . Gentleman may not be aware that in the last few day Aleksandar Vulin — a former spy chief for Serbia who , have be sanction by the United States Government for his involvement in gang and narcotic , move to Republika Srpska and be make a senator for life — have just be bring back as Deputy Prime Minister . do he agree that that be gravely concern , and be relevant to his point about people be put in place who have be sanction by the United States and be strong fan of Russia ? do he agree that it can be destabilising and make our partnership with Serbia challenge , especially when it come to defence and security matter ? the hon . Lady ' s tremendous knowledge of this part of the world in particular , and the interest that she pursue so assiduously , can not be ignore . she be right to underline the influence of Russia and its wish for people to be place where they can have influence on its behalf , and I share her concern . if the UK bring its global economic strength to partner with Serbia and other western balkan state , there be a potential for those country to increase their resilience against hostile foreign interference and progress towards wide economic development through trade and diplomatic effort . the right hon . and gallant Member for Beckenham ( Bob Stewart ) be admire by all of we here for the leadership that he show in the Balkans when he be in the armed force and for his knowledge of this subject follow his experience , and I know that when he speak later he will remind we of how awful that particular war be . but if we can move forward and assist the world ' s wide economic development through the trade and diplomatic effort that I have mention , let we do that . we can not ignore the negative , but it be always good to find solution as a result of a positive attitude and a focus on our strategy . the UK ' s objective for the western Balkans include overcome divisive ethnic nationalism and conflict . the attack by serbian nationalist militant in Kosovo last year be a prime example of the necessity for our Government to pursue effective action to achieve that objective , especially with regard to Kosovo - Serbia relation . perhaps , when the Minister respond to the debate , he will give we his thought about how those relation be proceed , and what more we can do to bring about solution . in the light of the serbian militant ' attack , we remain committed to support the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Kosovo , and oppose any action to undermine that . we , or rather our Government and our Minister , have be extremely strong on policy in that regard and their implementation , and I commend they for their leadership . I know that every one of we be greatly encourage by it . however , the response to the attack from Kosovo and Serbia underscore ongoing tension that can only exacerbate the regional security challenge , and we ask our Government to join we in condemn such attack . the attack be an indicator of nationalist sentiment that have increase in recent year , threaten the stability of not only the country involve but the entire region . the focus of the debate be on security in the western Balkans , but what happen there will affect all the surround area as well , as the hon . member for Rutland and Melton emphasise in her speech , and it be important for we to do our good in that context . however , we recognise the need for this topic to be debate in the House , because the western Balkans certainly remain vital to UK and european security . we must bear in mind that Albania , Montenegro and North Macedonia be our NATO partner . their people may be culturally or ethnically different , but they be morally focused on find a solution , and I find that encouraging . their partnership with we be critical in maintain stability in the wide region . the stability of the western Balkans remain fragile , and we can not ignore that . the four region of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland come as one , and we fight as one in the British Army , the Royal Air Force and the Royal Navy , which I be greatly encourage to see . even colleague on the SNP Benches will be encourage to see those from Scotland who serve in uniform . before it be too late , we must work alongside regional and international partner to change the situation in the western Balkans . the United Kingdom should redouble its effort to address area of need reform in the western Balkans , include democracy , the rule of law and defence against foreign threat . thank you again , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I early in the debate , and I thank the hon . member for Rutland and Melton for bring forward this issue . I thank the Minister and the Government for their leadership , and for their achievement so far . I want that work to continue , so I call on they to utilise their regional and international partnership , which be build on mutual accountability and trust , to improve the security situation in the western Balkans . today we add our voice to the effort to make the necessary change , and I look forward to the contribution from other , who will equally reinforce the importance of today ' s debate . some present will recall that I be the british battalion commander under UN command in Bosnia in 1992 and 1993 . since then , I have give evidence in four war crime trial . I have visit Bosnia frequently over the last 31 year , and what happen there and to the people who live there matter to I and to all those people who have serve there — whether in the military , for a charity or whatever . somehow that country grip we , and it matter to people in our country . I be last in Sarajevo just over two week ago , principally to attend the remembrance service for the Ahmi ć I massacre , which take place on 16 April 1993 and where 116 people like we be kill . those people may well have be muslim , but they think like we ; they just have a different religion . like we , they want to bring their child up , they want school and they want thing to work . that be why Bosnia matter — we be very much akin to the people who live there . today , Bosnia remain a very fraught place , with tension between the three main community : bosnian Serbs , bosnian Croats and bosnian Muslims . I could say there be tension between the christian community and the muslim community , but I would like to point out that there be other people there , such as member of the jewish community , particularly in Sarajevo . tension remain just below the surface , and sometimes they break through . bosnian society today be still like a lemonade bottle that someone have pick up and shake . they put it down and think all be calm ; they can see through it , and there be no bubble . when they take the top off , there be an explosion — boom ! tension in Bosnia remain ready to explode . these tension be , of course , exacerbate by russian support for Republika Srpska , which Russia already treat as an independent state . recently , at a conference in St Petersburg , it be treat as a sovereign entity with its own flag . there have be strong indication , and maybe more than that , over the last few year that russian weapon be go to Republika Srpska . with russian encouragement , Dodik , Republika Srpska ' s leader , whom my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) have already mention , be block all move by the Muslim - Croat Federation and Republika Srpska — those two entity together be the country of Bosnia and Herzegovina — towards EU membership . just last week , Dodik state that thing will change after 2 May , which be today . many people interpret that to mean that he will push for the secession of Republika Srpska from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina . if that be to happen , such a change would be a disaster for the western Balkans and would very likely result in yet another civil war . our excellent ambassador to Sarajevo , Julian Reilly , be really worried about that . equally , our ambassador be terribly concerned about the number of qualified young people who be leave Bosnia . youth unemployment in Bosnia be at nearly 40 % . no other country in Europe have such an appalling statistic . Bosnia be bleed its youth , and the youth be the future of any country . the reason for that statistic be mainly the political situation and the unstable base on which the country sit . be my right hon . friend concern that there be go to be an Easter Assembly , where Dodik and vu č I ć plan to sign a declaration around Greater Serbia ? what do he think that mean ? what message do it send about Vu č I ć ' s plan and support for the tacit secession of Republika Srpska ? I thank my good and hon . friend for say that . I totally agree with the implication . the real problem be that Russia be encourage this to happen . Republika Srpska , under Dodik , be push for it , and the Serbs will play both side . if it be to happen , we could have an appalling situation like we have in the early 1990 . in fairness , the British be do all we can to help , particularly economically . we be try to pump - prime Bosnia ' s industry to support the setting up of new company . Bosnia be still govern by the short - term rule — they be mean to be short - term rule — agree at the Dayton peace conference in 1996 . the rule be suppose to last a couple of year at most , but they have never be replace . they really need to be sort out to make a workable system for everyone who live in Bosnia — Serbs , Muslims , Croats , whoever . everyone be grateful for the service that my right hon . Friend give to the world . he experience and witness trauma to try to bring about that peace and , in do so , have to deal with many area of corruption . do he believe that a drift away from the big stick have allow the undermining of the very issue that he say need to be address ? I thank my right hon . friend . there have be drift . we have the most wonderful high representative Paddy Ashdown , who really do wield the big stick — and it work . his name be still revere and he be a friend of mine — he remain one , although he be go . we need a high representative with more power , and we need the situation to be sort out so that people do not get away with criminal act . the mafia be still rampant . when I be in Bosnia , I have to deal with three side militarily and with the mafia , who be appalling . I do not want to go into how to deal with the mafia , because that be not the purpose of this debate , but they be always there and they be the people who do not want change . [ interruption . ] I have slightly lose my place ; I know I should not have write my speech ! corruption and cronyism remain and be largely support by the system . last year , when I visit Tuzla , in the north of Bosnia , I meet a highly qualified young lady who be desperate to go to medical school and become a doctor . she have all the qualification but she tell I that she could not go because she be not a member of a certain political party and , more importantly , because she do not have enough money to bribe the official to put she on a list to go to a medical school . she be in despair and feel that the only future for she and her friend lie in leave the country . our country have put a lot of effort into support peace and stability in Bosnia . we have do so on many level : politically ; socially ; economically — a lot of economic work have go on in Bosnia ; and of course militarily . I really believe that our effort have be worth it ; we have save many life , and nothing be more important than to save someone ' s life . we have to continue to do that . we have to do all we can to help the Muslim , serb and Croat people of Bosnia . all that the vast majority of they want be a decent life — one that we be lucky enough to have — where their child go to school , where they can get job and where they do not need to worry too much about law and order . we be lucky to live in this country ; there but for the grace of God go all of we . we could have be bear bosnian . it be a genuine honour to follow the right hon . member for Beckenham ( Bob Stewart ) . he be revere in this place for his knowledge of the western Balkans , not only because he read a lot about the area and visit Bosnia a lot , but because of his rich experience from the 1990 , when it be at its most bloody . I also pay tribute to the hon . member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) . I say humbly , as the new Member present in the Chamber today , that a Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee ought not just to comment on some of the thing go on in the world today , but anticipate what we might see in the future . we often come to the House to ask urgent question about event , in the middle east or elsewhere , that be happen right now , but real statespeople look forward and think about what might happen in the future and how we can head that off . I thank those member who pay tribute to the late Lord Stunell . we be very shocked and sadden by his loss . it remind we of another loss in the other place , that of Lord Ashdown . when I be try to decide whether to speak in this debate or to go out and campaign in the local election , I have to think , " what would Lord Ashdown be more appal by ? would he be more appalled by my absence from campaign or the debate ? " although it be a finely balanced decision , I think he would have want somebody on the liberal Democrat Benches talk about the western Balkans . I will concentrate my remark on Kosovo , not just because of my personal experience — I spend a year there , all tell — but because Kosovo have the most recently change international border in the region . in 2008 , many member of the international community , include the UK , recognise the state of Kosovo . one have to pay tribute where it be due , and it be good to see that Lord Cameron visit Pristina not long after he be appoint , at the beginning of January this year , when many other be sleep off a hangover . my first trip to Kosovo be work with KFOR on try to encourage serb return to Kosovo . that remind we that the effort by the international community to build peace in Kosovo be ground in try to establish a safe and secure multi - ethnic environment . it be easy to forget just how much effort the international community put into try to keep Kosovo a very diverse place . while I be work on serb return , I meet a lady whose husband and child have be dreadfully butcher — hang from a tree and disembowel . I later go back and work with the Kosovo Protection Corps , an organisation that have grow out of the former Kosovo Liberation Army and subsequently become the Kosovo Security Force . for many , that be go to be the future Army of Kosovo . I have , therefore , have the privilege of see thing from two extreme side and I feel I be able to see thing from two very different perspective . while there be still a strong sense of grievance in the Kosovo - serb community , there be no doubt that Moscow be play on that . Moscow would love to see Belgrade act as some sort of satellite , or even a proxy . we have pretty good reason to believe that Moscow be delighted to see the middle east burn right now because it serve to distract from its illegal war in Ukraine . in much the same way , we suppose that Moscow would be very pleased if the Balkans be on fire too . I thank the hon . gentleman for his kind word early in his speech . be he aware that when the Foreign Secretary be give evidence to the Foreign Affairs Committee he describe Serbia as a proxy of the russian state ? I be not aware of that but it sound feasible . we should try to bring Serbia away from the mantle of Moscow , if we can . I appreciate that be not entirely within our gift . one way to do that be through economic mean , by try to attract Belgrade and Serbia to our cause . we must think , too , about the Kosovo Serbs . More than 10 % of Kosovo Serbs have leave Kosovo in the past year . clearly , they be elect to leave , unlike what we see in 1998 - 99 when people be be burn out of their home . it be ethnic cleansing on a scale that , thankfully , we have not see in southern Europe since . my fear be that , by legitimise the election that the Kosovo Serbs choose to boycott , we might inflame or enrage that sense of grievance that exist among those Kosovo Serbs . think about the intervention from the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , I be intrigue to see that member of the International Relations and Defence Committee in the other place write a letter to Lord Cameron early this year , and among the list of suggestion that they make be one promote a BBC albanian service , which strike I as an excellent idea as it would encourage the spread of our soft power in Kosovo . when we hear remark about Greater Serbia , we have to pay tribute to how the international community deliberately avoid create a Greater Albania in the wake of the ethnic cleansing in Kosovo . it deliberately avoid any sense that the international community be seek to annex territory . that stand in stark contrast to what Russia have seek to do in Ukraine . it may claim that there be precedent for redrawe international border , but it can not point to Kosovo as any sort of precedent , give that that involve the creation of an independent state , and that what we see in Ukraine at this time be nothing but aggression and imperial annexation . I accept the premise that Russia be keen to interfere in the western Balkans , and be seek to stoke tension between Serbia and Kosovo . my feeling be that we must try to avoid the Serbs become susceptible to the goading that be come from Moscow . the proposal from the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee for a trilateral security alliance be an interesting idea . what we see in the wake of the invasion of Ukraine be Pristina appeal to its ally — appeal to the United States and to NATO to admit Kosovo into NATO . in the absence of that , I suppose that deterrence through a strong alliance with Kosovo make a whole lot of sense , and , of course , we have see similar proposal in relation to Warsaw and Kyiv . yes , deterrence be require , but my closing point be that we should not afford Moscow great opportunity to appeal to the Serbs . there be some well - educate and well - inform Serbs who have grievance about what go on in the early 2000 . we must try to appeal to both the Kosovo Albanian community and to the Kosovo Serbs and try to create that much seek after multi - ethnic state . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) , the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , for secure this debate at such a critical time . in November , I be in Sarajevo with the NATO Parliamentary Assembly for a Rose - Roth seminar , which involve a series of lecture and presentation . we get to hear about what be go on from many angle , which lead I to the conclusion that I could make one statement say one thing and another say the complete opposite . there be a paradox in the country , and the truth of it all depend on one ' s perspective . for example , people will say that basically nothing have happen since 2017 , and that the country be in a stalemate and be not move forward in many of the area my right hon . friend the Member for Beckenham ( Bob Stewart ) mention . in the same breath , they say that the country be move forward , build more solid foundation , and become a more trust partner of international institution . where the truth lie between those statement be what we be explore in today ' s debate , but we know that corruption be still rife , and there be too many self - serve interest . in the interest of time , I will not repeat the example give by my right hon . friend . he outline they perfectly , especially the example of the young girl who want to start a medical career . the reality be that if someone be not a member of a political party , or can not pay certain people , they can be catch in a trap . corruption , electoral fraud , the state of law — these be all thing that the Government be try to work on in Bosnia with the Organisation for Security and Co - operation in Europe , but they be not take major step forward . there be , however , politician and party that be try to break away from the establish corrupt institution . we will watch the election with interest over the come year , especially in Sarajevo , as anti - corruption candidate start to stand . we have a responsibility to support those process , through organisation that we support , such as the OSCE . my right hon . friend be absolutely right : brain drain be a massive issue for Bosnia . a country can not survive and have an economic future if what remain be just the retired population , and those who would serve its good interest be leave . in 2021 , 182 , 000 people out of a population of 3 . 2 million leave . ten year ago , there be 300 vacancy in the military , which 7 , 000 people apply for . last year , there be 300 application for 1 , 000 vacancy . that be a stark change in a decade . military investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina have stall at 1 % for a decade . that be not enough to maintain the equipment , let alone a force . we then start to see those with corrupt and criminal interest able to get a foothold again — and , more fundamentally , not be worried about any consequence . there be a way that we can turn that around and support Bosnia . it be about , in word that I have use already , the big stick . my right hon . friend describe Paddy Ashdown use that big stick . I think my right hon . friend be a little shy about his role in the country , do what he could to keep criminality under control . the blunt truth be that too many politician be play a very dangerous game in Bosnia , in Republika Srpska and the surround area . when it look as if democracy will threaten their position , they launch into nationalist fervour and push that forward . that be exactly what Dodik do in Republika Srpska : he move to a relatively moderate position , until it look as though his position be under threat , and then become far more extreme . it be easy in such a debate to discuss where we be and where thing be go . we say that what we do in the war be 30 year ago . I think that sanitise thing slightly . I remember watch — it have to be 25 year ago — the BBC drama " warrior " . I only watch it once , and I be traumatise by it . it be an excellent drama . " warrior " be base on my infantry battalion , and it demonstrate how brilliant , well trained and decent our serviceman be in such situation . I be very proud that " warrior " win the Montreux golden rise for its production . I be more than grateful to my right hon . and gallant Friend for make that point . he be hold in high esteem in this House , in Parliament and in the outside world for the role that he play in that operation . I be come on to say that the reason why I have never be able to watch that programme again be that it be horrific . I be not in the service , and I do not go out to Bosnia . I watch that drama in my very early 20 , and I find it so horrific that even though it have be repeat since , and even though it be excellent , I have not be able to watch it . that must not be forget . the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) outline some of the horrific scene that take place — the butchery , the savagery , the hatred that lead decent people and neighbour to carry out those act . we have to recognise they in this House and never forget . I have the privilege of be the international chairman of the Conservative party for a period . we do a lot of work with the Westminster Foundation for Democracy , a body through which Labour , Liberals and Conservatives work with their sister party to help build democracy . it be set up after the Cold War . I be proud that I be able to work with three faction from the centre right in Bosnia , to get those right - wing party around the table , talk and work towards develop a well future . I use to say , " I don ' t know whether this will have any long - term effect , but at least I can one day look my maker in the eye and say that I try . " I have a very tiny part in try to make peace last , because that be what we have to do . tragically , in my opinion , Republika Srpska representative do not turn up to the Rose - Roth seminar of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in November , apart from one person who very bravely do and get a hell of a lot of pushback for it . its representative have be disengage . that be what I mean when I talk about the dangerous path that they be on . take the history of the second world war . by about the 1960 , german society start to teach about the holocaust . that be a very important moment ; it turn to education to make sure that history could not repeat itself . in Bosnia , however , not only be people not talk about some of the crime against humanity that take place during the war , but in some of the school in Republika Srpska , they be actually say , " it ' s lie — it didn ' t happen . this the problem . we ' ve get to separate out . " we should be highly concerned about that . what lie behind all that be the arm of Russia . I have hear that Russia be not directly involve . it be not supply arm ; it be not do some of the thing that it have do in other part of the world , such as Syria and Ukraine . however , the hand of Russia be there , politically and disruptively , and we do not have to look very far to see it . this be a critical moment . my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Melton and my right hon . friend the Member for Beckenham use the word " deterrent " . one thing we could do today be take a british battalion , in a NATO - lead operation , to those area , and act as a deterrent . I do not want any force to have to try to stop the slaughter of innocent civilian . we now have an opportunity , in that the Minister be here to take these point back to the Foreign Office . I know that minister be always constrain in what they can and can not say at the Dispatch Box , but we have to send a clear message in this debate . history do not have to repeat itself . we do not have to have programme that I have only ever be able to watch once in my life because I find they too horrific for I , let alone for the many member of this House who serve in Bosnia , or those now in the other place who be Ministers at the time , and have to deal with the consequence . there be ongoing trauma . I have meet service personnel , some of whom serve under my right hon . friend the Member for Beckenham , and I have hear and see the deep distress that they live with to this day , have try to protect innocent civilian . that do not have to happen again . we can , and we need to , take action this day . that be the responsibility of the develop western world . it have responsibility for manage its military , and for the ethic that we apply to stop those who , purely as part of power - grab political game , play the nationalistic card , which will lead to murder civilian . we see that today in Ukraine because we do nothing after Crimea . if we deploy a british battalion in Bosnia under the very small NATO headquarters there , it would show that we mean real business , and aim to stop thing this time . it would , by its presence , demonstrate power , but hopefully it would not have to use force . battalion from other country could help , too . my goodness , Minister , this be a time when take a little action would have a huge dividend . I be bring my comment to a close , and my right hon . friend have absolutely summarise the point that I be try to make . I be on the NATO Parliamentary Assembly , I be the chairman of its Defence and Security Committee and I lead the UK delegation . what do we talk about more than anything else ? the word " deterrent . " deterrence have to be well than go in to try stop a war . we can do this today . my right hon . friend ' s intervention have absolutely sum it up . Minister , if there be one message to take away at the conclusion of the debate , it be that we can prevent horror that could happen very soon — maybe as soon as the end of this week . as the Prime Minister ' s special envoy for freedom of religion or belief , I have the privilege of visit Kosovo in February , have be encourage to do so by the Foreign Secretary , Lord Cameron . I go to discussion on freedom of religion or belief with Government Ministers , civil society and faith leader to explore the relationship between different faith group and to gather good practice on freedom of religion or belief in Kosovo . I have the very pleasurable experience of join the Kosovo Government ' s celebration of the 16th anniversary of Kosovo ' s declaration of independence . above all , the main aim of my visit be to reaffirm the UK ' s commitment to strengthen its relationship with Kosovo . I have visit many country in my 14 year as a Member of Parliament , and I can honestly say that I can not recall a warm welcome than the one I have from everyone I meet in Kosovo , from the President and Prime Minister to Government official and civil society . indeed , that warm friendship be start in my first meeting , before I have even leave the UK . my hon . friend give we the opportunity to reflect on the fact that none of we want to be stand here talk about conflict in the Balkans , or just about security . in fact , when I be elect to this place , I say that I would talk about the future for those country . I thank she for reflect on the fact that those country be full of people who want brightness and future , and who be full of joy and hope for their country . I thank she for bring that moment of reflection , which be miss from our debate . that be what we want to focus on : prosperity , future , hope and co - existence . I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . on that national day of celebration , I have the experience of listen in the Parliament of Kosovo to reflection by leader after leader about the progress their country have make in democracy , in governance and in other way over the past 16 year . the pride that they show be heartwarme . I will give one small example , but a very real one : one of those leader speak about how good it be that now , when a young child see a policeman or a man in uniform in the street in Kosovo , they do not run away in fear . it be a privilege to be there . my first encounter with someone from Kosovo be with Kosovo ' s ambassador to the UK , Ilir Kapiti — I be pleased to see that he be watch from the Gallery . from the first moment I meet he , he extend the hand of friendship . he help facilitate the visit , which I know be also enjoy by my colleague and hon . friend the Member for Cleethorpes ( Martin Vickers ) , who be the UK trade envoy to the region . my hon . friend have now visit Kosovo seven time , and I be very impressed to find that he be on first - name term with the Prime Minister , who greet he as Martin . that show the importance of the relationship that Kosovo have with the UK . it be my pleasure to emphasise how much we want to reciprocate , because Kosovo be an important country in the region . it be an important bulwark of stability against malign influence , and I very much want to convey the message that the UK want to work with Kosovo to strengthen stability in the region , and to do all we can to assist that country in do so . when I go to Kosovo , not only be all my meeting convivial and productive , exhibit a deep and endure affection for the UK , it be clear to I that Kosovo and its people display great respect for difference in religion or belief , despite — or perhaps because of — the region ' s tumultuous history . the purpose of my visit be to encourage a celebration of Kosovo ' s religious diversity and the lesson we can learn from its people ' s experience to ensure the promotion of freedom of religion or belief in a multi - ethnic society . I also put on record my appreciation for Kosovo ' s contribution over the past three - plus year to the International Religious Freedom or Belief Alliance , a network of 43 like - minded country determine to promote freedom of religion or belief around the world and to call out its abuse . we be a very active alliance , and I be proud to serve as its vice - chair ; from 2022 to 2023 , I be its chair , but our Czech Republic ambassador Robert Ř eh á k be now the very active chair . I commend Kosovo for its engagement : the alliance have 43 member country , but some be much more active than other , and Kosovo be one of those . it have sign a number of our statement , demonstrate its commitment to religious diversity — for example , on discrimination against the Baha ' I community across the world , on the contribution of the jewish faith and combat antisemitism , on Christians more recently , and on the international day for commemorate the victim of act of violence base on religion and belief . those be just a few of the statement that Kosovo have sign . I also commend Arton Krasniqi , Kosovo ' s envoy to the alliance — and therefore my counterpart — for his personal commitment . there be some representative in our alliance who one can tell have a genuine and heartfelt commitment for the work of promote freedom of religion or belief around the world , and Arton be one of they . he make sure that , whenever he can , he join our meeting internationally . this year alone he have meet we in Washington and Geneva , and just before the end of last year he meet we in Prague . his personal commitment to the work of our alliance demonstrate his meaningful engagement and also that of his country . it be with great pleasure that I meet Liza Gashi , the Deputy Foreign Minister , among other from the Government in Kosovo while I be there . she immediately want to emphasise to I the importance in which Kosovo hold strengthen relationship between different faith and of religious diversity . she say she want to hold in Kosovo , organise by the Government , a conference on freedom of religion or belief . I be delighted to hear that , because these gathering really be important . very shortly after my visit , her determination be follow up with a memorandum , write by one of her staff , detail proposal for a Kosovo religious freedom forum this year , 2024 . the memorandum state : " the Kosovo Religious Freedom Forum seek to address press issue surround religious freedom , tolerance , and coexistence in the region . host in the Republic of Kosova , this forum will bring together renowned religious leader , policymaker , scholar … to foster dialogue , understanding , and cooperation among various religious community … the conference aim to highlight the importance of religious freedom as a fundamental human right and a conduit for peace and how country can work together to address the challenge face religious freedom today . " it also state that the conference would very much bring to bear the " lesson learn from Kosovo ' s rich history of religious tolerance " . I look forward to the discussion about that gathering progressing between Minister Gashi and the chair of our alliance , Ambassador Ř eh á k . during my visit , I be also very pleased to meet Hajrulla Ç eku , the Minister of Culture , Youth and Sport . he similarly emphasise to I the importance he attach to Kosovo be an increasingly multi - ethnic state and society . I be delighted to hear that he be work hard to plan the hosting of the Mediterranean game in Kosovo in 2030 . I be equally delighted to hear he extend his hand towards a meeting with Bishop Teodosije of the Serbian Orthodox Church , indicate how willing he be to meet he in whatever forum the bishop would like . I be equally pleased that the bishop , when I meet he , give a clear indication of his willingness to reciprocate in that regard . it be a very important moment , and I know that our new ambassador in Pristina , Jonathan Hargreaves , will do all he can to promote that relationship . I welcome the Government of Kosovo ' s approach to religious freedom . it be excellent to hear , shortly after my visit , that the Government of Kosovo have implement the 2016 constitutional court decision , which confirm the Decani monastery ' s ownership of several hectare of land . that be a practical demonstration of their commitment to religious pluralism , and the securing of that be something I seek while there — although I of course claim no credit for the fact that it happen . we can not take for grant the continue security of the region , and we must continue to address legacy of the past , while also work for a more prosperous and secure future . I believe that religious freedom and the work that Kosovo be determined to undertake have a vital role to play . our ambassador , Jonathan Hargreaves — he have recently return after begin his tenure there — be particularly determined to do all he can to make progress on dialogue with serbian representative , and to help promote , facilitate and follow up on a joint meeting of the independent monitoring committee , and the dialogue that we hope will ensue . Kosovo may not be a large country , but it have an important role to play in the Balkans . it be important not only for that region , but for the wide stability of the world , as we work in an increasingly unstable world . the UK recognise the importance of work together to secure that , and in my role as the Prime Minister ' s special envoy for freedom of religion or belief , I look forward to play my part and , I hope , return to Kosovo soon to play my role in the conference , which I hope will take place later this year . I call the SNP spokesman . I congratulate the hon . member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) on secure this incredibly valuable debate , and on her commitment to ensure stability and security in the western Balkans , not just in her time in this place but throughout her professional career . the other incredibly valuable contribution we have hear all speak to member ' own personal expertise and experience , and demonstrate why the Backbench Business Committee be right to grant time in the Chamber for this important debate . many of my hon . friend have work closely with the hon . Lady and the Foreign Affairs Committee , and in some of the parliamentary assembly that be mention , on these issue over the year . the security and stability of the western Balkans affect the security and stability of the wide region , especially here in Europe . as we have hear , conflict and dispute in the different country often act as proxy or play for influence by other actor on the global stage . sadly , much of that be not new . anyone who have study basic high - school history will know that the root of the first world war be often trace to the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand on the street of Sarajevo in June 1914 , just short of 110 year ago . for the many reason we have discuss , the region continue to this day to be see as something of a tinderbox or powder keg , or even a shaken but unopened bottle of fizzy lemonade . much progress be make , especially with the establishment of the Dayton accord in 1995 , but those structure have not be without challenge or strain over the year , and there be increase challenge to the status quo , as we have hear throughout the debate . the increasingly assertive stance of Milorad Dodik within Republika Srpska threaten the territorial integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina , as the motion suggest , and tension remain high between Serbia and Kosovo after cross - border violence . the Ohrid agreement between those country be welcome , but it must be follow up with practical action . the root of the instability , and political instability in particular , run deep . that in turn have significant consequence across the region , include ubiquitous corruption , inter - ethnic tension , strong organise crime , autocratic tendency and limited human right . the powerful speech about freedom of religion or belief be testament to that . organised crime in particular remain a challenge , and drug and weapon trafficking , illegal immigration , money laundering , contraband or terrorist act all add to the sense of instability and insecurity . these factor explain and sometimes compound the opportunity for external influence and exploitation by bad faith actor . the hon . Lady ' s motion refer to Russia , and the SNP join she in her condemnation of russian attempt to amplify tension in the region for its own gain . Putin clearly see the western Balkans as central to his argument for the return of multipolarity in world affair , in opposition to what he see as a US - dominate unipolar order . for example , by block UN recognition of Kosovo ' s independence , Moscow try to position itself as a defender of serbian territorial integrity , which boost Russia ' s popularity among Serbs and put pressure on Belgrade to maintain friendly relation with Moscow . as we have hear repeatedly in the debate , Russia continue to back bosnian serb antagonist both officially through Republika Srpska and informally through myriad cultural , religious , educational and paramilitary group . at the same time , Russia ' s full - scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022 have see the western balkan country emerge essentially as a new frontline in Russia ' s geopolitical confrontation with the west . Russia have use the medium and information sphere , step up its political influence and mobilise proxy organisation to project its narrative , protect its interest and slow the region ' s integration into western institution . however , integration continue to provide something of a counterbalance . progress continue to be make towards that integration , in particular the prospect of accession to the European Union and , perhaps for some country , eventually to NATO . those be the institution that have promote peace , security and economic development among their member country and international partner for decade , since the end of the second world war . country that wish to join the EU should largely be support and encourage to do so , and at least to start make progress towards the different membership criterion that would allow they to pursue membership in future . that have not necessarily be the case for the UK Government ' s attitude towards the European Union . there be some irony in promote and encourage expansion in one direction , while deal with the consequence of Brexit in the other . I think that be a deeply cynical and unfair point to make . the people of Bosnia and Kosovo want to join the EU , and therefore it be right we support they in their ambition . we be not say we think they should join because we think it be right ; we be say that , if that be what they want — if that be their determination — we will support they in that journey because it be right for they . the hon . Gentleman ' s point be deeply unfair . if I be honest , it bring domestic politic into a debate that so far have rightly focus on the Balkans and their people , rather than lower down to domestic politic . it be disappointing to make that point today . I take the hon . Lady ' s point , and I be not try to upset much of the consensus we have hear today , but there have be consequence . a message be send by the United Kingdom when it decide that the European Union be not for it . many of we during that debate — we do not need to rehearse it just now — warn that that be a potential consequence of the UK ' s decision to leave . I will not go any far on that , and I want to agree with the point that have be make . there be an important role for the UK to continue to play , as the hon . Lady ' s motion note , particularly by increase engagement with international ally and regional partner . indeed , the counterpart to her Committee in the House of Lords make a number of important recommendation in a recent letter to the Foreign Secretary , all of which the SNP would welcome be take forward . those recommendation include : action by the leadership of Serbia and Kosovo to implement the Brussels and Ohrid agreement ; support the high representative in effort to tackle secessionist activity by Republika Srpska ; re - evaluate the possibility of rejoin Operation Althea , the EU - lead peacekeeping mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina ; the provision of funding for a BBC albanian service ; the use of long - term funding instrument to support development in the region ; more activity to promote economic growth and combat corruption ; continue participation in the Quint ; and continue collaboration with EU and US partner on development , security , reform and democratisation . I agree with the point that the right hon . member for Elmet and Rothwell ( Sir Alec Shelbrooke ) make about the value of the Westminster Foundation for Democracy in that regard , speak as someone with some experience of that . the hon . Member refer to Operation Althea , a European Union - lead operation that the UK choose to leave on leave the European Union ; we leave in 2020 . do he think that the UK would be wise to go back into that operation , as it can , as an associated state , or should there be a parallel security arrangement of the sort suggest by the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee ? the recommendation of the House of Lords Committee be that the United Kingdom should re - evaluate the possibility of rejoin the operation , so that be the kind of direction in which there should be travel . it be about identify the most important and appropriate role that the United Kingdom can play . whatever form that take , these be practical and achievable step that the Government could take to demonstrate their willingness to be a good global actor . a secure and stable , peaceful and prosperous region be not just in the interest of the people who live in the country that make up the western Balkans — we hear powerful testimony about how people want to get on with their everyday life — but in the interest of all of we who want to live in a peaceful and prosperous world . will the hon . member give way ? I have just conclude my speech . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , the hon . member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) , for secure the debate and all hon . and right hon . member for their insightful and consider contribution . I recognise in particular the speech by my friend the right hon . and gallant Member for Beckenham ( Bob Stewart ) and the hon . and gallant Member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) , who have direct experience of both Bosnia and Kosovo and the region more widely . there be also excellent contribution from my hon . friend the Member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) , the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , the right hon . member for Elmet and Rothwell ( Sir Alec Shelbrooke ) and , of course , the hon . member for Congleton ( Fiona Bruce ) , and the hon . member for Glasgow North ( Patrick Grady ) on behalf of the SNP . I draw attention to my declaration in relation to my role as a shadow Minister and visit to the region . I , too , welcome the presence today of the two ambassador from Kosovo and Bosnia . it be always a pleasure to meet and work with they . we hear poignant tribute to the late Lord Ashdown and the late Lord Stunell , to which I add my remark . I also pay tribute to my former colleague Tony Lloyd , who be deeply miss in this place . he play a key role on the western Balkans in the last Labour Government and continue to take a keen interest in the security and stability of the region . we be all too aware of the crisis we currently see in the middle east and Africa and , of course , the terrible war in Ukraine , but we must not lose sight of the strategic importance of other key region , and indeed our historic diplomatic , military and other obligation to they . of course , the western Balkans be one such region . I be pleased that , despite the many political difference in this place , the debate have underscore that there be cross - party support and concern for maintain the value of democracy , security and stability in the region , a commitment to the prevention of conflict and atrocity , and the defence of fundamental human right . as a Parliament , and indeed as a country , we must recognise the continue tension across the region and — this warning have be make many time in the debate — their capacity to destabilise the country and people in the region , with potentially dire consequence not only for the people of the region but for european security more widely . the destabilising role that Russia be play have be rightly recognise and reference many time . the hon . member for Glasgow North ( Patrick Grady ) also make that point . he be about to sit down so sadly I could not intervene on he . the hon . member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) be absolutely right about the consequence for the rest of Europe . Dodik be not just talk about Republika Srpska as it stand ; he be talk about a great Republika Srpska , with part of Serbia , part of Kosovo , and part of Montenegro , which be a NATO ally . with Russia ' s help to cause disruption — in history , that have happen in similar way — all of we could easily be drag into a war if we allow this nationalistic fervour to take the route that he be preach . the right hon . member be absolutely right to highlight some of the deeply irresponsible rhetoric we have hear in recent week as well as over long period . we all know the risk pose by that from the historical conflict we have see in the region . the concern raise be indeed share by NATO as well as by our colleague in the EU , the United States and other . I emphasise that the region be a priority for I and our shadow foreign affair team , as it would be for any future Labour Government . indeed , over the past two year , I have personally meet diplomatic , parliamentary and governmental representative from every country in the region as well as our excellent envoy , Lord Peach . I pay tribute to our excellent ambassador in the region , and our Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office team for all their work . just last week , I meet colleague from Albania , the bosnian ambassador , delegation from Kosovo and other envoy across the region . as have be reference , it be crucial that we work together with key ally and partner . the horror of the 1990 be ingrain in the mind of many people across this country and the House , include armed force personnel from my own family . I have powerful memory of visit , particularly to Bosnia with the right hon . member for Beckenham , and to Kosovo . we all know the terrible consequence that can happen if ethnic hatred be allow to devolve into identity - base violence . I think of the young man my own age whom I meet , Ned ž ad Avdi ć , a survivor of Srebrenica , and the horror that he go through . I be a young lad enjoy a beach holiday in south Wales while his family and other be slaughter around he . those example will never leave my mind . no dynamic underscore the need for our collective engagement more than the endure challenge in the relationship between Kosovo and Serbia . the opposition remain strong supporter , along with the Government , of Kosovo ' s independence , sovereignty and security . early this month , it be disappointing to see many in northern Kosovo boycott the local referendum . only 100 out of 46 , 000 register voter cast ballot in the predominantly serb municipality . that come despite the Government in Pristina agree to annul last year ' s local election and hold new one . I have have the pleasure of visit Kosovo , as I mention , and meet member of all community . it be clear that there can be a positive future for Kosovo , involve Kosovan Albanians , Serbs and other minority . it be pleasing to see the Kosovan delegation recently visit Northern Ireland and learn from our example of different community come together and live in peace despite their difference , find way forward and political solution . we should all want to support those effort . we be proud of our historic action in relation to Kosovo , but it be crucial that we play our part now . I pay tribute to the UK force who have go in to reinforce the exist UK force in KFOR , particularly after the incident that have be refer to in Banjska and elsewhere . it be crucial that those responsible for destabilising be hold to account and bring to justice . we must work closely with all colleague to ensure that those tension do not develop in any further devastating direction . it be also crucial that we support the decision of people in the region and note the decision of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to approve its recommendation for Kosovo to become its 47th member state . it be crucial that any tension be not escalate . Kosovans must be free to determine their own path . I welcome the UK Government ' s recent statement on this matter . I hope the Minister can outline what recent discussion he have have with EU counterpart , the United States and other about the ongoing tension , how we can work to prevent further destabilisation and how we can ensure that contribution to KFOR continue . where do he see the diplomatic dialogue go to normalise relation between Belgrade and Pristina ? reference have be make to the internal dynamic within Serbia . I have hear from many figure across the serbian political spectrum . it be very important that we support democracy , inclusion and stability within Serbia , and that people be allow to take part in political process there . I also recognise that there be tension in a number of other country , which we do not have time to go into today . the situation in Montenegro and North Macedonia — both key NATO ally — have be particularly fragile over recent year . I have the pleasure of visit Skopje and meet political figure across the spectrum . what be we do to ensure that those country continue on a path of democracy , stability and the rule of law ? we have have extensive discussion today about the situation in Bosnia . as I say , I meet the ambassador recently . we have all join today in raise concern about the rhetoric of Milorad Dodik and other . we have join the Government in support sanction against those who seek to undermine Dayton . when it come to recognition of the past atrocity and otherwise , it be about identify those responsible , not go against a people or a whole community , as the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee point out . we have also see concern step in Republika Srpska towards a so - call foreign agent Act , mirror development elsewhere and again remove democratic transparency and the ability of human right organisation to hold government to account . it be a hugely worrying step , and I would appreciate the Minister ' s comment on that . finally , it have be a pleasure to meet colleague from Albania , another key NATO partner , in recent week . it be good to see increase co - operation with Albania on migration and trade . the British Council be play a crucial role , particularly on the future for young Albanians , which be rightly raise by my hon . friend the Member for Slough . I hope the Minister can say a little bit about the positive step be take in our bilateral relationship with Albania . the United Kingdom have crucially important relationship across the region . we must strive to play a positive and engage role through our ambassadorial team and through international forum . crucial election be take place in the region over the come week . we must ensure that security and stability in the western Balkans remain a priority , particularly give the warning in relation to Kosovo and Bosnia . I hope the Minister will say what step will be take at the upcoming European Political Community summit , which we will be host in July , not only to bring together party but to promote peace and stability in this crucial region . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) on secure this timely and very important debate . I pay tribute to she for her work as Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , along with her tireless and very active effort to secure a more stable , peaceful and prosperous future for the people of the western Balkans . the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , my hon . friend the Member for Wealden ( Ms Ghani ) , the Minister for Europe , would have be delighted to take part in the debate . she be currently travel on ministerial duty , so it be my pleasure to respond on behalf of the Government . I be grateful to hon . member for their many thoughtful and emotive contribution , which help we to understand the significance of the region . the people of the western Balkans clearly deserve the opportunity to live in stable , inclusive and democratic society where they can heal the scar leave by conflict and grasp every opportunity to thrive and prosper . that be what we be strive towards : all six country play their full part in the Euro - Atlantic family of nation , with the opportunity and benefit that bring . sadly , as we have hear today , we be a long way from the peaceful and stable Balkans we all wish to see . the contribution from my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Melton and the hon . member for Glasgow North ( Patrick Grady ) and for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) highlight the context within which we be work : democracy be fragile at well ; political elite be ramp up ethno - nationalist tension for their own benefit ; and Russia , as be highlight by member across the House , be fan the flame of division to distract attention from Ukraine and move the region away from the west . it be good to see the House unite in call out that behaviour . we must , of course , avoid a return to conflict in the western Balkans at all cost . we be painfully aware of the serious consequence that that would have in the region and beyond . meanwhile , it be clear that political weakness and instability in the western Balkans be threaten the UK ' s security . endemic corruption be fuel illegal migration and allow serious organise crime group to thrive and operate in this country , include in the drug trade . with that in mind , we be take a multi - faceted approach . first , we be address the driver of instability , whether that be Dodik ' s push for secession or heighten tension between Serbia and Kosovo , but we be also focus on the underlie factor enable that . we be engage with all six country , take a cross - Government approach underpin by our programme in the region . last year , we spend over £ 47 million on support security and defence , prevent conflict and promote media freedom , along with effort to tackle corruption and organised crime , and to empower woman and girl . give the grow instability , with all the risk it pose , we be prioritise the western Balkans in our diplomatic engagement . as other have point out , the fact that one of the Foreign Secretary ' s first visit be to Kosovo , in January , demonstrate the importance that we place on our tie with the region . indeed , the Prime Minister ' s special envoy to the western Balkans , Lord Peach , visit the region 12 time last year and make a further 16 trip to other interested country , as well as engage regularly with international organisation such as NATO and the EU . the UK have long work with Serbia on share priority and will continue to do so , make clear the point on which we disagree and judge individual by their action . it be not for we to comment on the appointment of individual Ministers , but it clearly raise question when we see a US - sanction individual in the Government . a number of issue have be raise today about the relationship between Kosovo and Serbia . we have see an increase in violence , include last September ' s terrible attack in Banjska , which be describe very clearly by my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Melton . in every meeting , every call and every letter that we exchange with serbian and Kosovan leader , we urge they to avoid inflammatory rhetoric and escalation and engage constructively in the dialogue . only through genuine dialogue and mutual good will can we normalise relation between Kosovo and Serbia and start to build the bright future that their citizen deserve . we also continue to make it clear to the serbian authority that they must co - operate fully with effort to hold to account those responsible for the Banjska attack , take step to tackle cross - border arm smuggling , and encourage Kosovo Serbs to return to the institution and serve the community that they represent . we have also make clear to the Kosovo Government the need to ensure that minority community can play a full and equal role in the country ' s future . we be disappointed that the mayoral recall referendum on Sunday 21 April be boycott by Kosovo Serbs . it be arrange specifically to return Kosovan municipality to representational governance , and it be important for a route back to that to be find . I can confirm to Members , if they do not already know , that the UK will vote for Kosovo to join the Council of Europe . point have be raise about investigation of the Banjska attack . the Kosovan police and prosecutor be the appropriate authority to investigate it , and it right for we to wait for that investigation to conclude . we have previously sanction Radoi č I ć , the Kosovan criminal charge with organise the attack . we have urge Serbia to hold perpetrator to account and address the ongoing problem of cross - border arm smuggling . along with other , the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) rightly speak of the role of Lord Ashdown in Bosnia and Herzegovina , but I think we all recognise the important role perform there by my right hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Beckenham ( Bob Stewart ) . he remind we that that country matter , and highlight the tension that exist there . I will never forget visit Sarajevo with my family . one can not but be move by be in that great city , meet its people , and be remind of the horror of the past . we recognise that we be face the threat of Republika Srpska secede from Bosnia and Herzegovina . we have condemn Dodik ' s secessionist action , and have under - line our steadfast support for the High Representative . we be work with our international partner to deter further attempt at destabilisation , and to support the reform that be necessary for progress towards EU accession . the Minister have mention deterrence . we hear from the right hon . member for Beckenham ( Bob Stewart ) and the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee that what might serve deterrence well at this time would be put a british battalion or battle group into Bosnia . do the Minister agree with their suggestion , and would that be feasible with a regular Army of 73 , 000 ? at the moment we have no plan to contribute to eufor or to rejoin , but we recognise that it be vital for Bosnia and Herzegovina ' s security , and we work hard to support it . NATO support the force under the Berlin - plus arrangement , and the UK continue to be a strong supporter of Bosnia and Herzegovina ' s armed force . that be underline by the deployment of the First Battalion Royal Anglian Regiment to train alongside Bosnia - Herzegovina armed force personnel in October and November last year . I come back to sanction , which be an important aspect of the situation in Bosnia . in January , we sanction a bosnian medium company for undermine the country ' s constitution . that build on the sanctioning in 2022 of Dodik and the then President of Republika Srpska , ž eljka Cvijanovi ć , and we constantly keep our approach to sanction under review . we will consider target other who continue to seek to undermine the situation in Bosnia - Herzegovina . I be listen carefully to what my hon . friend be say . we must be very careful not to allow recent history to repeat itself . President Obama make it crystal clear that if chemical weapon be drop in Syria , it would cross a red line and would not be tolerate , but nothing happen . then Russia walk into Crimea , and nothing happen . now we have a war in Ukraine . it be all very well say that we will work through diplomacy and sanction , but what I be really interested in be save life . I do not expect a response now , but I urge my hon . friend to go back to the Foreign Office and say that this debate have highlight that normal diplomatic route be not go to be enough . we need a big stick . I know my right hon . friend ' s view well , and he communicate they with alacrity and clarity . we will reflect on his remark , but I want to underline that we be take a comprehensive approach to a very serious problem , and it be good to see support across the House . I and the Government have hear the point that have be make . I be get the eagle eye of Madam Deputy Speaker , so I will accelerate through the last part of my speech . in response to the hon . member for Cardiff South and Penarth , we will continue to support North Macedonia ' s Euro - Atlantic path . we welcome the progress that be be make in Montenegro under Prime Minister Spaji ć , which be gear towards boost economic growth , bolster the rule of law reform and build close tie with the country ' s european neighbour . I would also like to talk about the very important contribution from my hon . friend the Member for Congleton ( Fiona Bruce ) , who be the Prime Minister ' s special envoy for freedom of religion or belief , about the really important work that she have be do in Kosovo . it be good to see how her work , and indeed the work of civil society and religious group in Kosovo , be help to celebrate the diversity of religion and belief . it be important that Kosovans be actively participate in the wide forb agenda , because we can learn from their experience , to put it frankly . the UK be determined to bring about a more stable , secure and prosperous future for the western Balkans , for the sake of all our people . this include support the government of the region to build open and inclusive society with strong democratic institution , help they to tackle the criminality and corruption that drive illegal migration and blight economic growth , and ensure that woman and minority community be empower to play a vital role in society . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Melton on secure this debate , and on her huge contribution to it and to the action that be be take . it be important to focus on this important region , and on the step that we need to continue to take to help underpin the stability of the people who live there . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for convene this debate . I thank the Minister for his response . the future of the Balkans must be one of peaceful co - existence — it be what their people desperately want , and it be what the world need . we also need to end the retraumatisation that be take place through the falsification of history , and to ensure that when we see crisis , we step up and act . foreign policy be not just about react , although too many people think it be . it be about shape , mitigate and support , and we have a duty to act , not least in the Balkans . I will finish by say that in the face of denial rage a truth undeniable — eye that see too much , and eye that see nothing . we must see in this place , we must speak in this place , and we must make sure that the country act . I thank every hon . member who take the time to contribute to this important debate , not least because the local election will have call on all of they to be elsewhere . I really appreciate their commitment to this cause . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House recognise the acute security situation in the Western Balkans ; support the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Kosovo and Bosnia and Herzegovina ; condemn the attack by serb nationalist militant in Banjska , Kosovo on 24 September 2023 ; far support the authority of the Constitutional Court in Bosnia and Herzegovina ; far condemn russian interference in the Balkans ; note with concern pro - russian and pro - serbian irredentist political rhetoric in Montenegro ; and urge the Government to increase its engagement with regional partner and international ally to improve the security landscape of the Western Balkans . Pension Schemes [ relevant document : Third Report of the Work and Pensions Committee , define benefit pension scheme , HC144 . ] I beg to move , that this House have consider pension scheme . I be grateful to the Backbench Business Committee for allow time for this debate . I last speak about this issue in a half - hour debate in Westminster Hall on 17 January , and there have since be a number of significant development , not least the third report of the Work and Pensions Committee , which be a good and substantial piece of work . I be delighted to see its Chair , the right hon . member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , in his place , and I will touch on the report towards the end of my comment . event have unfold for the various pension scheme over the last few month , and what I speak about in January as be particularly pertinent to the beneficiary of the define benefit scheme at BP and Shell have begin to look more like a wide course of conduct . there be significant development under way , not least the Government ' s recent consultation , which could significantly shape the way in which define benefit pension scheme treat their beneficiary in the future . although I initially think that I be deal with a couple of oil company , I now see that it be a range of different company . yesterday I read an alarming brief from the pensioner of Hewlett - Packard . it be pretty clear that , as this area of pension policy develop , an ever large number of large corporate will take the same path as BP and Shell . ultimately , it will be our constituent , as beneficiary , who lose out if we get it wrong and if these company be allow to do as they wish , rather than as they ought , on the position of their pensioner . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for secure this debate . I have be contact by three retire member of ExxonMobil , which have a very large refinery in my constituency . I be reluctant to name the firm because I have not have a chance to ask for its side of the story , but the three letter tell I that exactly the same thing have be happen . those three people be give no discretionary rise this January , and it be then modestly reinstate after protest be make . there be clearly some sort of co - ordinated effort , and not in a good way , exactly as the right hon . Gentleman describe it pain I to say it , but I think the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . what might have start with the oil and gas company be clearly go much wide . I should declare an interest , as I hope to be the beneficiary of a define benefit pension , if I live that long , have be in the House before the move to career average earning in 2011 . I will not rehearse what I say about the decision of BP , Shell and other not to pay a discretionary increase , which matter significantly to their pensioner at a time when inflation be run north of 11 % . however , it be worth remind the House that a fundamental point of fairness be at stake here . when one be past retirement age , one no long have the choice one have when one be of work age . if someone in employment be unhappy with the money they get for the work they do , they can look around and find another job , or they may choose to retrain and do something else more profitable . once someone be of retirement age , they no long have that choice and flexibility , which be why it have long be establish as a matter of public policy that the beneficiary of pension scheme require protection . after all , this be simply defer income , with our be pay later , after we have stop work , for the service we have do . it be a fundamental aspect of that protection that it should take as its starting point the undertaking that be give . at BP and Shell , and I do not doubt ExxonMobil , people be give vigorous encouragement to join pension scheme and invest in they . they be give undertaking at the time that one advantage of a big pension scheme at a company such as that be that they would later in life have an income that be protect against inflation . so a question of good faith be at play here . I have no doubt that for many of the big corporate , the bp , Shells , Hewlett - Packards and so on , the possibility of pay money to those who be no long economically active and contribute to their business be tiresome and inconvenient . I never cease to be amazed by the extent to which those at the top of these big corporate seem to think that somehow the corporate be as big as they be simply because of the role that they have play . they do not seem to understand that they be the inheritor of business that be build by other , who be now among those who would be the pension beneficiary . if one be to stand on the shoulder of other , it be always good to respect the fact that one enjoy the view one have because of the shoulder on which one stand . I be sorry to say that that seem to have be forget in the boardroom of too many of our large corporate . I have express these concern about BP , in particular , before . I remind the House that I have a large number of BP pensioner in my constituency , because for many year BP operate the oil terminal at Sullom Voe . it be a good employer and we value its presence in the community for many decade . I be concern now to see that BP pension fund trustee with a collective 94 year of membership of the fund have be replace with four with precious little involvement , two of whom be citizen of the United States . since we last debate this issue , both Shell and BP have again refuse any discretionary increase to their beneficiary — in essence , they be double down . the briefing I have receive from the Shell Pensions Group be of particular concern . as it be craft succinctly and concisely , I shall , with your indulgence , Madam Deputy Speaker , read it into the record . it say : " Shell have impose this benefit cut upon its pensioner during a period when : the Fund be in healthy surplus and well able to afford full cost of living increase without call upon Shell ' s sponsor covenant ; and Shell , its shareholder and senior executive benefit hugely from the same energy crisis that be already cause their pensioner extremely high rise in their cost of living . " the Shell Pensions Group have do considerable and detailed research on that point . from the actuarial report and the scheme ' s account , it conclude that " during the same period , instead of a balanced approach use about 25 % of the surplus ( as quote by Shell as necessary for a full cost of live increase ) to the immediate benefit of the 93 % of member whose pension be currently defer or in payment , the Trustee have largely opt to dissipate the surplus by massively accelerate completion of its Low Reliance ( upon Shell ) investment transition plan . this fifteen year plan be commence in 2018 , but with the acceleration opportunity provide by the surplus arise from increase bond deal , it be almost fully complete in 2022 . " that be where the money that could have fund the pension increase have go . it have go into accelerate a programme that be suppose to take 15 year and instead have be conclude in four year . I be afraid to say to the Minister that the Shell Pensions Group also have strong concern about the consultation that he launch on 24 February , under the heading " option for defined Benefit scheme " . it say : " we be therefore aghast that … the Pension Minister open a new consultation … with a view to identify way of encourage and enable sponsor of DB scheme to claw back surplus . we feel that the foregoing demonstrate that sponsor require no assistance or encouragement in that and on the contrary , strong measure be necessary to hold the surplus for the benefit of the beneficiary , particularly in contributory scheme in which they have invest their own money by way of defer salary and additional voluntary contribution . " the Select Committee report have give careful consideration to this matter . along with most of those to whom I speak , I be well pleased with the recommendation of the report in that regard . BP also continue to double down . there continue to be no formal engagement with the pensioner ' group — what the previous chief executive officer call " the zero - engagement strategy " . I would have love to have be at BP ' s annual general meeting this year ; by all account , it sound to have be a heated affair . the analysis publish recently in the Times by its financial editor tie in very well what BP be do with the concern we should all have about the future direction of travel . in a recent article , the financial editor write : " everyone at least pay lip service to the notion that meet pension promise in full be paramount . no surplus should be touch without a meaty asset buffer be build up . no sponsor should be allow to extract cash without show a strong covenant — provide reassurance that it will still be around to pick up the piece if thing go wrong . but even those safeguard aren ' t nearly enough to fully protect member , accord to a trenchantly argue submission from a ginger group of BP pension fund member , the BP Pensioners Group . attempt by employer to evade their promise will be " legion " it say ; they will " trim back or remove any benefit possible " ; they will " abuse loophole " in the rule to maximise their clawback . they will push hard to minimise what member should " reasonably expect " . it also warn that the prospect of executive bonus be fatten up by success in grab back surplus will be far more potent in drive company behaviour than any residual feeling of responsibility to ensure scheme pay every last penny of promise pension . the message be that it could all end up in an unseemly scramble . " the article continue : " the bitter dispute with BP be just " a foretaste " of how relation between many other DB pension fund member and their former employer be go to sour if the surplus - grab reform be push through without proper safeguard . the old world be dead . " that sum up very well the tension between surplus clawback and the need to honour the commitment that be give to beneficiary . we see so often this mismatch , which affect the ability of the citizen to take on the big corporate , or the big public body . this be just the private sector version of what happen to the sub - postmaster . the Post Office be big enough , strong enough and well enough connect simply to ignore the sub - postmaster , to lie about they , to straight - bat their concern , and to deny what be obvious to everyone until they could no long manage to do so . what be the agenda here , and ultimately who will be the winner and the loser ? it be pretty obvious that the pensioner will not be the winner . we should consider the reputational damage that the issue be do to BP and Shell . obviously , any oil and gas company these day have to be a fairly thick - skin corporate entity , but still I ask myself why they simply refuse to engage . why be they deny the very obvious and clear justice of the case be put forward by their own pensioner group ? I find it difficult to see any explanation other than that the fund be be fatten up before be hive off to insurance company or other . the Times — the Thunderer — be not the only news outlet to have report on BP pension recently . on 29 March 2024 , the PR Newswire report a case in Houston , Texas , in which the judge tell BP that it must reform its pension plan , follow an eight - year legal battle over pension loss . again , we be deal with big corporate , which have deep pocket and can see off the attention of the small pension beneficiary . PR Newswire say : " a group of Standard Oil of Ohio ( Sohio ) oil worker receive a win decision … after an eight - year legal battle with BP Corporation North America , Inc . ( BP ) , in a huge victory for oil worker , with a federal judge rule that BP " — this be worth pay attention to — " ' commit fraud or similarly inequitable conduct ' in how it announce a pension formula change more than 30 year ago … federal judge George C . hank , Jr . , rule that BP violate the Employee Retirement Income Security Act ( ERISA ) of 1974 and plaintiff " — that is , the worker — " be entitle to appropriate redress by ' equitable relief . ' the court rule plaintiff demonstrate BP commit multiple violation of ERISA in its communication to its employee … the Sohio retiree maintain , since 1989 , BP have insist the new formula would provide benefit as good as or well than the old formula . the judge agree and find there be a pension shortfall for many . " it be worth reflect exactly what the people who take that case be motivate by : the work that they have do for BP . the article continue : " Fritz Guenther , lead plaintiff , dedicate his work life to BP often in dangerous condition on the North Slope of Alaska . he work two week on , two week off for year rely on BP ' s representation regard his retirement . while he be still healthy , he say many of his colleague face health issue , while other still have die within the past eight year . the retiree ' legal fight be take place against a backdrop of a retirement wave nationwide , with the US Census Bureau estimate that one in five Americans will reach the age 65 or old by 2030 . " that be the nature of the commitment that BP employee in America give to the company , and it be a measure of the moral bankruptcy that appear to be at the heart of that corporate that it could not see that payback be necessary for these people in their retirement . I will touch briefly on the Work and Pensions Committee report to which I have repair . I apologise for do something that I be always tell not to do as a law student : I will read from the rubric , rather than the substance of the report . I welcome what the Committee say about scheme surplus and governance . in particular , the executive summary say : " many scheme be much close than they expect to be able to enter a buy - out arrangement with an insurer to secure scheme benefit . " I touch on that early . the Committee be also right to talk about the various reason why the flexibility would be advantageous to wide interest . there be a balance to be strike between the company , the beneficiary , and the national interest , in relation to the money be available for investment . that balance have to be properly strike , and it will inevitably slew towards the interest of Government and corporate interest , unless the necessary protection be put in place . the Committee also observe : " we note the current consultation on the level of fund a scheme would need to have for surplus extraction to be an option . however , strong governance will also be essential . we recommend that DWP should conduct an assessment of the regulatory and governance framework that would be need to ensure member benefit be safe and take step to mitigate the risk before proceed . " in this brave new world for define benefit pension , that be a warning that the Minister and the Government would do well to take onboard . if they do not , I be afraid that the loser at the end of the day will be our constituent , the beneficiary of such pension scheme . we will look back in year to come , and we will see that the case of BP , Shell , ExxonMobil , Hewlett - Packard and other be simply the canary in the coalmine . I call the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee . I welcome the debate , and congratulate the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) on secure it at a time when a lot be happen in pension policy . I will take advantage of its broad scope to comment on wide issue , as well as pick up on the point that he make . I agree with a great deal of what he say . auto - enrolment , which be devise by a Labour Government , legislate for under the coalition , and implement under subsequent conservative Governments , have be a huge success in increase the number of employee save for a pension , but a lot of challenge remain . above all , the amount that people be save under auto - enrolment be not enough for an adequate retirement income , and if we do not increase pension saving soon , we will have a crisis of inadequate pension income before very long . the gender pension gap remain much too big . pension save among self - employ people , to whom auto - enrolment do not apply , have plummet . the Chancellor be rightly look at how he can boost investment in the UK economy from pension fund , but UK pension fund , for understandable reason , some of which the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland touch on , have largely withdraw from investment in company , as regulation have push they to reduce the risk that they face . we must not force those define benefit fund that be still open and invest to close prematurely . the right hon . Gentleman highlight this afternoon , as he have previously — he mention his debate in Westminster Hall — that member of some define benefit pension scheme , such as those of BP and Shell , and I think ExxonMobil , as the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) point out , have in recent year not receive the discretionary increase that they use to . we look at that issue in the Select Committee report on define benefit pension scheme , which we publish on 26 March . we take oral evidence from the BP Pensioner Group , and we also hear from the HP Pension Association — the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland also mention that company . the association represent people who previously work for the computer company Digital , which Hewlett - Packard acquire . much of those people ' s work life be before 1997 . there be no general requirement to uprate pension in payment before 1997 , and our witness tell we that Hewlett - Packard pensioner have receive only three discretionary increase to pre - 1997 benefit , amount to 5 % in total , since 2002 , which be just over 20 year . in our report we call for the Pensions Regulator to find out how many scheme have discretionary increase on pre - 1997 benefit in their rule and how that discretion have be exercise in recent year . give recent improvement in scheme funding level , we also call for DWP to look at " way to ensure that scheme member ' reasonable expectation for benefit enhancement be meet , particularly where there have be a history of discretionary increase . " perhaps the Minister , when he wind up , would comment on whether he will look at the reasonable expectation for benefit enhancement for scheme member with a lot of pre - 1997 service , and whether they can be meet . the Hewlett - Packard Pension Association be call for a code of ethical practice to be draw up between the Pensions Regulator and DWP , particularly on pre - 1997 pension , and for their former employer and its pension trustee to work out a policy for sustainable future discretionary increase . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for touch on an area that I should perhaps have give more attention to . the most important protection we can give the beneficiary be through ensure that there be independent trustee , and that the office of trustee can not be manipulate by the company . do the Select Committee have any proposal for improvement in that regard ? the right hon . Gentleman be quite right . we have note a bit of a move towards sole trustee in a number of case , which clearly give rise to concern about how one person can represent the interest of the member of a pension scheme . we be reflect on that in our work , but one of the member of the Hewlett - Packard scheme write to I this week — he may well also have write to other member — about " the further fear and despair they be now feel as it dawn upon they that their company and pension scheme trustee be meanwhile prepare plan to derisk by transfer their Pensioner responsibility to an Insurance Company " — something the right hon . Gentleman touch on . that transfer will quite possibly mean " no subsequent possibility ever for pre - 1997 increase . " he call that " a frightening prospect " , and it be hard to disagree . the Committee also look at concern about the new define benefit funding regime to be introduce for scheme valuation from September . we note that the regime have be develop " in a different era when the vast majority of DB scheme be in deficit and amidst concern that employer be seek to evade their responsibility to underfunde scheme . " there have be big change since then , especially in the wake of the liability - drive investment crisis follow the Budget of 18 month or so ago . in particular , there have be significant improvement in scheme funding , but the principle of the new regime have not be change . scheme be expect to target a position of low dependency on the sponsor employer , mean low - investment risk at the point of significant maturity . that have promote concern that the funding code will , when introduce , force more unnecessary de - risk , particularly among open scheme , as well as among those that be close but have long time horizon , which would increase cost to employer and result in premature closure . we say that the DWP and the Pensions Regulator need " to act urgently to ensure they do not inadvertently finish off what few open scheme remain by far increase the risk aversion " . in a letter to the Committee on 18 December , the Minister tell we that both the Department and the Pensions Regulator be " acutely aware of the need to take account of the specific need of open scheme , " and he agree that " open scheme should not be force into an inappropriate de - risk journey . " we welcome that assurance , but it need now to be reflect in the final wording of the funding code and in the regulator ' s approach . the vote in Parliament on the statutory instrument come before the final version of the funding code be publish , so member do not quite know what they be vote for at that point . we recommend that the Department and the Pensions Regulator should work with open scheme to address their concern , particularly on the employer covenant horizon — the length of time for which they be confident in the sponsor employer ' s willingness and ability to support the scheme — and report back to we on how they will do so before the new funding code be lay before Parliament . since our report be publish , feedback from scheme suggest that thing may not be move in the right direction . in a consultation response last week , the University Superannuation Scheme — a large and still open scheme — describe the regulator ' s propose approach as " not fit for purpose for open DB scheme " . in its view , the statement that it will be require to complete under the term of the new code will demand " significant … resource for little or no benefit to our member . " to the USS , and to I , that appear inconsistent with the assurance that open scheme will not be adversely impact by the new funding regime . the USS add : " not … have have sight of the revise … Funding Code and accompany covenant guidance have exacerbate " their worry . I know that the Minister understand these concern well . closure of those scheme would reduce pension fund investment in the productive economy at a time when the Chancellor want — absolutely rightly — to increase investment from pension scheme into the productive economy . can the Minister tell we when he expect the new funding code to be publish , whether he will report back to the Committee before then on how the concern of open scheme have be address , and whether he be open to consider a separate chapter in the funding code , set out how the code will apply to open scheme ? let I take a few minute to talk about what be happen on the define contribution side of the picture . I wonder whether the Chair of the Select Committee share my concern that when those scheme go wrong , it seem to take an interminable time to get any form of resolution . I have in mind a scheme that I be sure he be familiar with : the Atomic Energy Authority Technology pension scheme . the Government give strong guarantee from the Dispatch Box that transfer into that scheme would give benefit roughly similar to those of remain in the original Atomic Energy Authority scheme , but that do not happen . I first quote the concern of my constituent , Dr Keith Brown , in 2016 . the most recent answer that I receive to a question on this subject be : " this be a complex issue require further consideration " between the DWP and the Cabinet Office . I first raise the matter in 2016 , but the Government be still say that in 2024 . the right hon . Gentleman make a very fair point . that be certainly a very long - run case , and the Select Committee have recently be look at a notable pension scam case — the Norton Motorcycle Company pension scheme , which be a straightforward scam — that have be run for year and year . he be right that we need to find way to speed up some of these process , because the victim in these case have their life really blight . we be allow that blight to last for year and year , and that need to change . on the issue of define - contribution scheme , the Committee publish a report in September 2022 on save for later life , which point out that auto - enrolment have be a very big success , double the proportion of eligible worker save in a pension . I applaud the approach now be take by Uber follow the Supreme Court case that it lose , and the recognition agreement that it now have with the GMB trade union . it be now auto - enrol large number of its driver into a pension scheme , albeit with high opt - out rate than elsewhere , which be make some real inroad into pension scheme saving in the gig economy . we need much more of that among other gig economy worker . however , many auto - enrol people be not contribute enough at the moment for an adequate retirement income , and quite a lot of they be probably not aware of that . contribution rate need to go up . as such , the Committee recommend that the Government should first implement the recommendation of the 2017 auto - enrolment review : reduce the minimum age for auto - enrolment from 22 to 18 , and minimum contribution be pay from the first pound of earning . almost all of our witness support those measure , and we welcome Royal Assent be give to the legislation that will implement they . that legislation require a public consultation on implementation , and for its finding to be report to Parliament before the regulation be make . however , as yet there have be no consultation , and nor have any date be announce for it , so can the Minister tell we when the Department will be consult on implementation of those regulation ? will that consultation be launch before the end of this Parliament , and do he still expect — as the Government have long maintain — that those change will be implement by the mid - 2020s ? we always know that auto - enrolment would lead to many small pension pot . People change job , so they accumulate , on average , 10 pension pot across their work life . by November 2022 , there be over 12 million deferred pot under £ 1 , 000 . the Department for Work and Pensions have propose automatic default consolidation to deal with small pot , but that will not in itself stop small pot from build up in future . as such , the Department have propose a lifetime provider model with member choice , so that employee tell their employer which pot to put their contribution into , and a pot for life , so that employee stay in the pension scheme they start out in throughout their work life unless they choose to move . consultation response on those proposal raise some very serious concern from the TUC , Age UK , and the Pensions and Lifetime Savings Association and the Association of British Insurers — the main industry body . Age UK , for example , say that the proposal would be " highly disruptive and lead to poor outcome for mass market saver . " major concern raise in the response include potentially unwind the consensus on auto - enrolment ; that other measure in train , such as pension dashboard , value for money and consolidation , will reduce the number of small pot anyway and improve value ; that the proposal would benefit saver with large pot , but harm low - income saver ; and that they would increase employer ' cost while entirely remove their role in select a pension scheme for their staff . I have hear time and again , as I be sure the Minister have , how important employer be to trust in pension saving and that employer have deliver in auto - enrolment what we have ask they to deliver . other such concern be that these change would require a new infrastructure , which would be hard to build , as pension dashboard have certainly prove to be ; and that they distract attention from the important effort to increase auto - enrolment contribution over time , which the response argue — correctly , I think — should be the main focus of change over the next few year . the Minister will be very familiar with all those concern . will he tell we when the Department will publish its response to the lifetime provider model consultation , and do he acknowledge that response to the consultation so far have indicate very significant risk in the Government ' s proposal for rather limit gain ? there be a lot go on in this area . I be very grateful to the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland for give the House the opportunity to reflect on all this at this particular time . there have be some good progress , for example with auto - enrolment , but a lot more work be need . I look forward to hear the Minister ' s reply . it be a pleasure to follow the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , and I thank the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) for secure the debate . it give we a chance to raise a number of issue , and I have listen with particular interest to the remark about define - benefit scheme and the recent report of the Select Committee , which be what I want to talk about today . I speak , as the MP for Cardiff South and Penarth , on behalf of the many individual affect by the collapse of the Allied Steel and Wire pension fund . that of course affect not just constituent in Cardiff South and Penarth , but people across south Wales and in other location in the UK . I have regularly meet constituent and other affect by that terrible injustice . over the time I have be in the House , I have hear the passionate way in which they have make their case , which be heart - breaking . they put into a pension scheme expect a define benefit after many year of service in a tough industry — steelmaking , which have a proud tradition in my constituency , as it do across south Wales — yet they have not receive what they pay in for . that be essentially because the employee be member of the ASW pension plan and the ASW Sheerness Steel Group pension fund , both of which be wind up underfunded . those member end up have to rely on the financial assistance scheme , which , as have be say , provide financial assistance to member of define - benefit pension scheme who lose all or part of their pension follow their scheme come to an end between 1 January 1997 and 5 April 2005 . the arrangement that be make resulted , in theory , in member receive something broadly equivalent to 90 % of the expect pension , which be obviously less than what they expect to receive , but this could be reduce if it be above the FAS cap . of course , member who have pay in substantial amount before 5 April 1997 do not receive any index link , which mean that the value of their pension pot have be substantially reduce . even the funding that go in after that date will not have keep pace with actual inflation , because it be relate to the increase of up to a maximum of 2 . 5 % . the net result be that many of they receive somewhere between 40 % and 50 % less than they feel they be entitle to . those member , many of whom pay into the scheme in good faith , have often explain to I very clearly how they be originally sell the scheme . they be tell it be go to be absolutely solid — as solid as the steel they be make — yet they find themselves in real difficulty in later life . sadly , many of those member have since pass away , or suffer illness , financial hardship , mental distress and many other issue during that time . the hon . member raise a point that I have be particularly concerned about . constituent have recently come to I because they be face problem get their pension entitlement from Police Scotland , so from a public sector pension . one of the lesson we need to learn from these continual scandal be that we need to act quickly , because the long we take , the more people lose out , and people pass away and never get the justice they deserve . I agree with the hon . Lady . indeed , that be reflect in what the Committee set out , which I will come to in a moment . quite understandably , those pensioner have make it clear to I that they see themselves in the ilk of other huge , historic injustice , such as those we have hear about in recent month with the sub - postmaster Horizon scandal and the infected blood scandal . obviously , the long it go on , the more pain and financial and mental distress they endure , and tragically many pass without receive any of what they be entitle to , and certainly not the full amount . I have meet numerous Pensions Ministers and write to they many time . I have speak in this House many time and tell the story of these pensioner . I thank shadow Front - Bench colleague , in particular the act shadow Secretary of State , my hon . friend the Member for Wirral South ( Alison McGovern ) , and my hon . friend the Member for Lewisham , Deptford ( Vicky Foxcroft ) , who be on the Front Bench today . I also thank previous shadow Pensions Ministers , include the late Jack Dromey , for all they do to engage with pensioner , but people be still not get the answer that they rightly expect — I will come on to the response that I have have from the Minister in due course . let I turn briefly to the recommendation in the DWP report , which I know the Minister be familiar with . its 22nd recommendation state : " Financial Assistance Scheme member be likely to have more of their service before 1997 , so be particularly likely to be affect by non - indexation of pre - 1997 benefit . any improvement for PPF member should also apply to FAS member . give the age of many FAS member , the Government should legislate as a matter of urgency to provide indexation … for pre - 1997 right … the Government should review the Financial Assistance Scheme , include look at the case for remove other discrepancy in FAS compensation , compare to the PPF " . paragraph 156 of the report state : " like the Deprived Pensioners ' Association and Prospect , the Pensions Action Group — " which have work on behalf of these pensioner over many year — " say that indexation on pre - 1997 benefit be its priority . Most FAS member have the majority of their service before 1997 and most be in scheme that provide for indexation of between 3 % and 5 % on all member ' pensionable service . non - indexation of benefit … mean that the average FAS award ( £ 2 , 700 ) be progressively low than the amount expect from the original pension scheme . Terry Monk say : ' people should get what they pay for — end of story . if people pay for it , they should get it . ' " that be a sentiment I have hear over and over again from my constituent and other . as I say , I have engage with many Pensions Ministers — there have be many over the year while I have be in the House — and I have a letter from the Minister on 18 April regard those on whose behalf I write to he . it say : " I be aware of , and welcome , the report of the Work and Pensions Select Committee into define benefit pension . these be complex matter which require careful consideration . any solution need to be balance and take account of the interest of Financial Assistance Scheme member and taxpayer who fund the Scheme . therefore , I be now actively consider next step … with an aim to publish our response in early summer . " will the Minister meet I , my constituent , and other representative who have be campaign on this for so long ? will he give some timeline for when he expect to respond to the Select Committee and the specific point ? will he provide his Department ' s estimate of the cost involve , and say how those weigh up in different scenario ? this issue obviously affect thousand of individual . I have hear different figure quote at different point for address the concern , and it would be good to understand his independent assessment . a passionate case have be make by my constituent and those affect . this be a highly publicise scheme . the former ASW site be now under new ownership but it be still at the heart of my constituency and a visible sight in Butetown and Tremorfa . many of those affect live locally and do not get what they think they be go to get . that have cause huge distress to they and their family . we need to provide they with some answer , and I urge the Minister to look carefully at the case they have make and at the finding of the Committee . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate , and I congratulate the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) on secure it and the Backbench Business Committee on grant it . this be an important matter , no matter what age people be . I appreciate that today we be not talk particularly about state pension , but I call on those on the shadow Front Bench to please desist from this scaremongering about what may be happen with state pension . all party have commit to have the triple lock in their election manifesto , and it have work well . there have be a big uplift in the state pension since 2010 . we work on that with the Liberal Democrats when we be first in coalition and have continue with it , with a couple of exceptional reason in the pandemic — once when we use primary legislation to ensure that people could get the triple lock , and again when we recognise the unusual situation with covid earning . we know that pensioner have welcome the significant increase in their first state pension payment of this tax year , with most of they see that significant uplift in the week just go . the former Secretary of State say we should not be scaremongere , but there be some serious concern . do she accept that the Pensions Regulator report say that the mini - Budget of the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) , contribute to a £ 425 billion drop in pension fund asset , which have affect every pensioner and every potential pensioner in this country ? will the former Secretary of State not at least accept some responsibility for that ? I certainly will not accept responsibility for that . I be conscious of the arrangement with the Pension Regulator , but also the situation that happen with liability - drive investment . the Bank of England see that as a risk in 2018 and do nothing about it . I come back to the fact that the state pension be well trusted and well regard , and it be scaremongere to suggest anything otherwise . I be conscious that today we be talk about private pension scheme . in my short time as Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , what come up time and again — this Government address it — be the reduction in the lifetime allowance to about £ 1 million , which the Conservatives have introduce . I appreciate that for many people , it would be a mountain to climb to get to that kind of pension pot , but for doctor , consultant and some nurse , the lifetime allowance be prove a barrier to they continue to work within the NHS . a sensible approach be take , and I be pleased we have do that . one thing that have be constant be the generous tax element for private pension . it be why we have have such a successful industry and why there be a difference between we and many other country around the world in what come from the state directly and what come through private pension . I recognise that the previous Labour Administration put in place the building block for auto - enrolment and the creation of the National Employment Savings Trust , and that be a good thing to do . I be pleased that we start that journey just over a decade ago . contrary to the prediction , it be good to see how many young people do not opt out . that be a huge success story , and it be why I share with the Chairman of the Select Committee , the right hon . member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , a keenness to make sure we get on with the consultation to which he refer . I be sure the Minister will answer that point . I appreciate that there will always be concern about the possible impact on job . I get it , and it may be that we need a two - stage consultation : one stage about age and one consider a low earning level . it would be good to get on , because everybody realise that the soon people start , the more they benefit . that be an important part of why auto - enrolment have be such a success . another recent change in legislation be the creation of collective define contribution scheme . clearly , there be still some interest in those , and Royal Mail be potentially close to start one . we should see what we can do to advocate for that model for many institution . this be a brave comment to make in this speech , but I wonder whether Parliament should lead by example and see whether the Members of Parliament pension scheme should move to this approach . I be conscious that the taxpayer pay for our contribution through the government and so on , and we have an uncertain career path by become member of Parliament , but where something be good enough for other and we be create legislation for it , we should consider lead by example and give some impetus to that new legislative vehicle . I may not be popular for say that , and I be conscious of how some of the issue with the McCloud judgment and similar matter lead to a two - tier system , which have now be rectify . however , that scheme undoubtedly need not be as complex . I be pleased about the change that happen in the Treasury , respond to call from department such as the DWP , which lead to an opening up through the Mansion House reform of the consolidation of fund and aspect of super - fund . what we need from pension investment be good return so that our pensioner will be prosperous — that be ultimately what this be about — and we need to galvanise what we be do to ensure that . I be not one of those people who believe that we will be retire at 75 or whatever — far from it . there be a rational end to that approach . it will not necessarily take courage but it will require some imagination , co - ordination and collaboration to ensure that we have sustainable pension outcome for the future . that be where we can start to learn from other country . when I be in the Department for Work and Pensions , I be interested in what be do in Japan . dare I say , if I end up do another phd in the future , it will probably be on how pension be part - fund in Japan , recognise its age demographic ? we should recognise that that be the situation in our country , too . we should not be all doom and gloom about this issue . we need to innovate , but we can also look at what other have do to address it . there be another really important thing . I start work in 1997 for a company call Mars Inc . where — it be little known to I ; I do not realise how beneficial this be — I be on a final salary define - benefit pension scheme with zero contribution . I do not have to contribute a penny . over time , that do not stay affordable for Mars . I have not appreciate that benefit — I think to some extent that be why auto - enrolment be so successful — but in that job I learn the importance of make sure that employer be careful with how they manage pension on behalf of employee and the role of the trustee . we can think back to Robert Maxwell raid pension . I know that Mars sell a business to his company , and that go wrong in term of the pension . People may not be aware that pension be not include as part of the tupe process — they be specifically exclude , recognise how they could limit sensible company merger and acquisition — but I be conscious of how people may not really think about that until much later in life . to return to the reform and why they be necessary , the trustee be so important . I have hope that we would have a " year of the trustee " campaign . although be a trustee be an interesting role to have — I admit that I have never be one , although I have express interest in the past — it mean be heavily involve in regulation . that could be overwhelming at time for people who may want to be a trustee because they believe in the people they work with and those who work there before they , as well as be mindful of the future , but who be not necessarily well verse in all the in and out . I know that the fiduciary duty be really drum into trustee . for define - contribution scheme in particular — where , candidly , there be no expectation of what the outcome will be — the hammer home of that fiduciary duty have lead to a low - risk approach , which have be very low - cost but with very low return . that be not what we should want . no wonder people be buy other home and become landlord : they see a fix asset , which they know they can sell in the future and on which they can make a reasonable expectation , whereas people put money into their pension pot have no huge sense of what that could buy they in the future . we have change the law so that people do not have to put everything into an annuity , but it still be a matter of concern . I be conscious that there have be issue with the pension dashboard , and I hope that the Money and Pensions Service will solve that . perhaps the Minister can update we on progress in that regard . it be vital that people start to look at that now , not just as they be about to retire . what be the benefit of the reform , and why should there be sufficient professional advice ? those intermediary adviser often get significant fee , but still recommend that people go for gilt and pretty low return . there be a different way . I hope that the reform will start to be take up by the industry , which ask for they , in order to take full advantage and recognise the issue ahead . we need to see the impact of the change in legislation and the variety of consultation . we make the change to improve prosperity for pensioner now and in future . I would be keen to hear from the Minister if there be any news on market trend in that regard . the local government pension scheme should lead by example . the Government have put great demand on local government through level up , but be vital that we see that change . there be a second part of pension scheme that be worth raise . I wonder whether member know just how many trillion of asset there be in UK pension alone . the answer be about £ 3 trillion . organisation such as make my money Matter be try to encourage people to use their future pension pot to ensure we have a thriving planet . I do not agree with the divestment approach , but it be important that company invest in the energy of today be invest in the energy of the future . without the support of pension fund , we will not get that necessary investment . pension be a superpower for the prosperity of people and the planet . I be pleased when we introduce the regulation on disclosure of alignment to the Paris agreement . I would like to go far and encourage the Secretary of State to bring forward similar regulation to apply to nature . work have already start — the Task Force on Climate - relate Financial Disclosures make it happen for carbon . I think we be the first in the world to do that , by the way . we can do the same for nature . the Taskforce for nature - relate Financial Disclosures be a good comparison . the International Sustainability Standards Board be look at that , and we be close to get that outcome . I appreciate that the Minister may not have consider that recently and he may not be able to respond , but I encourage he to do that . we only have a certain amount of time , although I hope that as science allow we to live long , we will claim our pension for long , so we want to ensure a prosperous future . on the superpower element , I praise Nest , which have do a great job . it be set up just over a decade ago , and now manage a huge amount of money . there be even room for it to expand through consolidation , which the Pension Protection Fund could also look at . Nest be lead by example . as a pension firm that be start to invest in the energy of the future with a substantial proportion of its fund , rather than rely on gilt and similar , Nest should be truly celebrate . although fiduciary duty must be the no . 1 priority , let we try to get more trustee to recognise that they be responsible for ensure that the return from DC scheme be as good as the benefit for member of define benefit scheme . we need to release the market and protect people as we have do . pension be a superpower be not necessarily the sexy thing to say in this Chamber , but it be one of the most important decision that we have make in legislation in recent year . we need to continue that momentum . I thank and commend the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) for lead today ' s debate . I attend his half - hour Westminster Hall debate on this issue and support he when he outline his case in the short time he have . he have do exceptionally well today in do the same thing , but in much more detail . it be important to discuss pension scheme , and to ensure they be properly understand and regulate . there be still so many people out there who be misinformed , or do not really understand how pension work or what their purpose be , so I be glad to be able to debate this issue . the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee , the right hon . member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , refer to auto - enrolment . I want to refer to it , too . the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland set out a lot of detail , as do the Chair of the Select Committee and other , refer to a number of company . Most people will obtain a pension at some stage of their life and , through employment , will actively pay into it . one point I would like to make , and which the Chair of the Select Committee refer to , relate to the provision of pension for our young people and what step we can take to ensure they understand that provision . this be another issue that I believe should be teach within learn for life and work . it should be in the curriculum and a part of our focus . the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland say that he have his first pension at the age of 22 . I have my first pension at the age of 18 . my mother take I down to John Thompson — he be not here any more — who be the pension man in Ballywalter . I say , " I don ' t need one . " he say , " oh , you do . " and I sign up . of course , you never say no to your mum . I certainly didn ' t and I do not regret that . over the year , and after take out other pension , all of a sudden they be quite valuable and exceptionally good to have . also when I be an 18 - year - old , my mother take I down to the Northern Bank — now Danske Bank — and open an account for I . she give I £ 10 to start the account . way back in the ' 60 , that be quite a lot of money . you could probably have buy a wee car at that time . I be not sure what state the car would have be in , but I think you could have buy one for £ 10 or thereabout . the point I be make be that it be important to save and to have a pension . we ask young people to look to their future and to start to plan , but there be little provision within the education system to teach they about pension , saving and mortgage , and there should be . I know that that be not the Minister ' s direct responsibility , but perhaps he could give some assurance on whether it could become a subject for the curriculum . I have have conversation with my staff on the importance of pay into pension . my young staff member ' s response be exactly that . she buy her first house , save for almost a decade for the deposit and pay thousand of pound for mortgage adviser , insurance , solicitor fee and lender fee . young people be just about survive to live in the present , but there be now an expectation that they must save in a pension for their future . the purchase of a house be such a critical factor that a pension often take second place . what step can be take to ease the financial burden on our young people and enable they to see the benefit of take advantage of pension ? I recently ask a parliamentary question on consideration be give to a potential opt - in scheme for young people under the age of 18 . there be massive cause for this . another two girl in my office have be work since the age of 13 — part time , obviously , but still work — and so many young people out there be employ from as young as that . why shouldn ' t they reap some sort of benefit from work at that age ? I understand the Government be to make a change to the Pensions ( Extension of Automatic Enrolment ) Act 2023 to enable that to happen in the " mid - 2020 " . as we quickly approach that , perhaps the Minister could give an update on the matter and where it stand . my last point on pension relate to the WASPI woman . this be not the subject of today ' s debate , and there will be a debate on it in a fortnight ' s time . I secure a debate last month in Westminster Hall on the issue . although it be not the pension issue for today ' s debate , the scale of the issue and its popularity highlight the importance of plan pension . that be the point I want to refer to . the Minister will be aware that compensation be owe , but , give the nature of today ' s debate , let I gently remind he that it be possible for lesson to be learn . in set the scene , the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland speak of what have go wrong and the need to ensure that it would not happen again , and we hope that , as a result of this debate and other , the issue of the WASPI woman will never happen again either . the incentive to save for the future must be there for people of all age , not just young people but those in their 30 and 40 who voluntarily do not pay into their pension because they do not think it worth their while , give the current cost of living and the many demand on their purse . it be also worth note that some employer match employee contribution , while other pay considerably more . the incentive must be there for people to prepare for life after work , and I firmly believe that that should start in the LLW and career sector of the education system . we should " learn they early " . we should reach young people in the right way and prepare they for the world that be to come , and pension be clearly a part of that . I thank the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) and the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee , the right hon . member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , for their work in bring this important matter to the House . the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland mention pension scheme include those of Shell and BP , but I want to focus on the Hewlett Packard Enterprise pension scheme , and a decision that directly affect more than 1 , 500 people live in my constituency and in neighbouring constituency . I speak on behalf of my constituent Patricia Kennedy , as well as 9 , 625 member of the Hewlett Packard Enterprise UK pension scheme , which include more than 4 , 000 member of the Hewlett Packard Pension Association . these be people with an average of 20 year ' loyal service , the bulk of it pre - 1997 . they be promise a good pension . they expect a " fair deal " from a world - lead corporation that they help to build , but now find themselves leave with a " raw deal " . in general , their pension now have less than 70 % of the expect buying power . in 1977 , Digital Equipment Corporation of Massachusetts open a factory in Ayr . the company , know locally as Digital , be a major boost to the local economy , and , indeed , apart from the Government , be one of the large employer in Scotland , with a major production facility on the outskirt of Ayr . at the time , the Digital pension scheme be regard as one of the good in the United Kingdom . annual increase be discretionary , but pension more than keep pace with the good available . in 1998 Digital Equipment merge with Compaq , and in 2001 that organisation , in turn , merge with Hewlett Packard . in 2017 Hewlett Packard split , and Hewlett Packard Enterprise take over responsibility for the Digital pension scheme . employee of Digital , Compaq and Hewlett Packard join and pay into the pension scheme in the reasonable expectation that future pension benefit , which would have provide they with a reasonable pension on retirement , would continue to increase in line with the cost of living . sadly , however , that have not happen . since Hewlett Packard Enterprise take over the pension scheme there have be only three discretionary increase , of 1 % in 2004 , 1 % in 2008 , and 3 % in 2022 . Hewlett Packard Enterprise , while present itself to its customer and investor as the most ethical company in the world , be take advantage of the weakness in the UK pension legislation relate to pre - 1997 service . that have result in a " raw deal " average pension of £ 9 , 700 , which , even when top up with the maximum state pension , result in " low income living " as define by the Government . regardless of its legality , this practice be heartless , immoral and unethical , and it be absolutely unacceptable from a major global corporation . by contrast , Hewlett Packard Enterprise have have an global annual net revenue — a profit — of between $ 50 billion and $ 120 billion since 2002 , total around $ 1 . 5 trillion . in 2023 , Hewlett Packard ' s chief executive be pay $ 1 . 3 million , a bonus of almost $ 2 million and $ 15 . 7 million in stock option . shareholder get $ 1 billion in dividend that year . if other , far less profitable company can pay increase to their pensioner , surely Hewlett Packard can as well . we might ask why it do not . the answer be simply that it do not have to . in fact , it do not even have to explain how it come to the decision that it make each year . the decision - make process , what factor be consider and how pensioner ' need be represent all lack transparency , and there be nothing that compel the company to change that . it have make its point for year , and there be a deadlock . I be a realist . although I call on the UK Government to put pressure on a US - headquarter corporation , that be unlikely to break the deadlock . however , there be a way forward . on Wednesday 18 October 2023 , David Carson , a representative of the Hewlett Packard Pension Association , give oral evidence to the Work and Pensions Committee on the define benefit pension scheme inquiry , as be mention by the Chair of the Committee . the Hewlett Packard Pension Association also make three write submission , which feature in the Committee ' s final report . the Committee mention these oral and write submission in paragraph 83 of the report , and paragraph 9 of the conclusion . it comment : " some pension scheme member be dependent on discretionary increase to ensure their pension payment keep up with the cost of living . where these have not be award the effect have be , over time , to erode their standard of living . this can be particularly the case for those with right build up before April 1997 , when there be no general requirement to index - link pension in payment . " the Pensions Regulator should undertake research to find out : how many scheme have provision for discretionary increase on pre - 1997 benefit include in their rule ; whether the discretion be for the trustee , sponsor employer or both ; the number of year in which scheme have pay discretionary increase on pre - 1997 right ; and the number of year in which they have not do so , as well as the reason for that . as a matter of urgency , I strongly encourage the Pensions Minister , the Government and the Pensions Regulator to complete the research , which I believe will make it undeniably clear that an ethical code of conduct be require to ensure collaboration between company and trustee on develop policy and strategy for pre - 1997 discretionary increase . clarification be also need from the Government on section 221A of the Pensions Act 2004 . that section be insert by paragraph ( 2 ) of schedule 10 to the Pension Schemes Act 2021 , which state : " the trustee or manager must determine , and from time to time review and if necessary revise , a strategy for ensure that pension and other benefit under the scheme can be provide over the long term . " that could be central to break the deadlock . if discretionary increase be view in the same way as other benefit in a pension scheme , it follow that company and trustee must work together to devise a strategy for ensure that pension and other benefit under a scheme can be provide over the long term . we also need the research to be do by the DWP and the Pensions Regulator , a code of ethical conduct to be develop , and clarification from the Government that the intent of the Pension Schemes Act 2021 be that company and trustee must work together to devise a strategy for ensure that pension and other benefit under a scheme , which include discretionary increase , can be provide over the long term . I appreciate that the Minister may not be able to provide clarification on these matter today , but I would be grateful for a write response in due course . finally , although this debate focus on private pension , no debate on pension would be complete without mention the great ever pension injustice — the 3 . 8 million WASPI woman , include 6 , 800 in my constituency , who be not inform by successive government of change to the age at which the state pension would be payable . the Government have ignore the plight of these woman for nine year . the Government hope that the WASPI woman would go away , but they have not , although 40 , 000 be unfortunately die each year without get any form of compensation . some 240 , 000 have already tragically pass away , include my constituent Margaret Meikle and Morag Syne . the Government must urgently support and progress the private Member ' s Bill table by my constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Kilmarnock and Loudoun ( Alan Brown ) . the Bill have its First reading early this year , and it would require the Secretary of State to publish proposal for a compensation scheme for woman bear between 6 April 1950 and 5 April 1960 inclusive who have be adversely affect by the increase to the state pension age . I congratulate the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) on securing and open this debate . he have speak passionately about this subject in the House before , especially in relation to the BP , Shell and other oil and gas scheme , and about the way that decision be be make because of concern other than the good interest of scheme member . I admire his knowledge and determination to support those who have be affect by adverse change to their pension scheme . my good friend , my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , passionately raise the case of his constituent who be Allied Steel and Wire pensioner , and he speak of the need for the Government to carefully consider the Select Committee ' s report . I hope that the Minister will meet hon . member and their constituent , and that he will update hon . member who have so doughtily put forward their constituent ' case . I work as a trade union official in a previous life , and I represent many member in pension dispute , so I have experience of this area . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant this debate , and I thank colleague for their valuable and insightful contribution . young people be frequently , quite rightly , advise to start plan for their retirement as early as possible . when people make plan for their future , they do so in good faith . a contract be effectively create between employer , or state , and employee to provide for an income to be pay in later life . although it would be naive to think that nothing could change during the intervene decade , people make decision about how they will afford their retirement when they enrol in a pension scheme . the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland have previously speak in this place about the emotional representation he have receive from people affect by the change to the BP define benefit scheme . I be sure nobody here could fail to be move by the word of the die BP pensioner who be tell that his widow will no long be protect from inflation , despite previous assurance . pension be , after all , not only an income while we be alive . they be also a way of provide for love one after we be go . my Lewisham , Deptford , constituency be not so well know for its oil and gas , but I have a constituent who be affect . when they contact I last year , my constituent outline how , in practical term , BP ' s decision to override the recommendation of its pension fund trustee mean that the pension of some 60 , 000 individual in the UK have decline , in real term , by 11 % in just two year . for an individual in their 60 on an average pension , that 11 % cut equate to a loss of income of about £ 60 , 000 across their retirement . some 16 , 000 of the individual affect be in their 80 and 90 , and it be not a great leap to assume that many may be in poor health and may have face spiral energy cost over the last few year . that be just one example of the huge impact that policy change can have on individual . let I turn to the wide pension landscape . there be three type of pension in this country : define benefit , define contribution and the state pension . all have be touch on at various point during this debate . we have reach something of a critical moment in pension policy . the last far - reach review of the UK ' s pension system , carry out by the Pensions Commission , report in 2005 . since then , the UK have weather a global financial crisis , a pandemic and the high level of inflation for almost 40 year . over the same period , home ownership rate have fall and there have be a big rise in self - employment , thank to the gig economy . in short , the way people be — or be not — save for their retirement have change , and we need to determine whether the current pension landscape be still work . that be why in November my right hon . friend the Member for Leeds West ( Rachel Reeves ) announce a wide - range pension review . our review will look across the whole sector . it will set out proposal to ensure that individual get the good possible return , and will identify the barrier to pension fund invest more in UK productive asset . perhaps a quick review of the track record of Labour and the Conservatives will provide further evidence of why Labour be well place to hold that review . under the last Labour Government , pensioner poverty halve — a million be lift out of poverty . so how be thing go under the Conservatives ? on their watch , one in five pensioner now live in poverty ; gas and electricity bill have rocket ; mortgage and rent have go through the roof , and more old people be rent into retirement ; and increase number of pensioner be rely on their hard - earn saving to get by . analysis carry out recently by Labour have show that the state pension be the main source of income for more than 6 million people . woman , over - 75 and single pensioner would pay the heavy price if the Tories cut the state pension to fill the £ 46 billion tax black hole create by their unfunded proposal to cut national insurance . that would see the pension cut by £ 96 a week , or pensioner pay more in tax . that be proof that you can ' t trust the Tories with the state pension . in the midst of a cost of living crisis that be hit pensioner hard , the Government be fail to ensure that family be get the support that they be entitle to ; up to 880 , 000 eligible pensioner be not claim pension credit . when we look at various workplace pension , our analysis show that average pension pot be £ 6 , 300 small than they would have be have wage grow at the rate they do under the last Labour Government . a worker on average earning can expect to have amass a £ 70 , 600 pension pot since 2010 . however , if wage during that period have grow at the rate they do under Labour , the same worker would have build up a £ 76 , 900 pot . work people will feel the cost of Tory chaos for year to come , with the Government ' s failure to make work pay wipe thousand of pound off the value of the average pension pot . all that be before we get to the Government ' s broken promise on the triple lock , and the billion that the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) wipe off pension fund with her disastrous mini - Budget . we may not represent the same party , but I hope that the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland will agree that old people be pay a heavy economic price for the mess create by the Tories . the number of people age over 65 will increase from 11 million to 14 . 5 million over the next 20 year . we be live long — one in four baby bear today will be around to celebrate their 100th birthday — yet the Centre for Ageing Better say that a financially secure and healthy late life be become increasingly unlikely for million of people . labour ' s record on pension be clear . we lift a million pensioner out of poverty . we introduce pension credit , boost the income of the poor pensioner , a disproportionate number of whom be woman . as my right hon . friend the Member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) rightly point out , we create automatic enrolment , which bring 10 million more people into workplace pension and give they a level of retirement income they otherwise never would have have . when the Tories break the triple lock , which have be vital in protect pensioner ’ income and provide security , we campaign against that . under Labour , the triple lock be safe . furthermore , we will never put the nation ' s financial stability at risk by play fast and loose with the economy . we will tackle the cost of live crisis head - on and ensure that individual have the security they deserve in retirement . we will give future pensioner the ability to prepare for retirement with confidence by create more well - pay job in every part of the country , help people get into , stay in and get on in work , and champion decent second pension for all . pensioner , along with everyone else in the country , need change . labour have a plan to grow the economy , put money back in people ' s pocket , make work pay and be the party of pensioner again . although it be not within the Minister ' s power to call a general election , perhaps he could have a word with someone who can . it be a pleasure to be here today . I thank the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) and the Backbench Business Committee for allow the debate , which be a second outing on the issue within a few month . we all agree that occupational pension be crucially important . many hard - work people across the country depend on their occupational pension for an income in retirement , have spend year pay into their pension scheme . the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland speak powerfully , once again , about the situation that his constituent face , and he refer to other as well . he speak powerfully about the situation as he see it . all of we have constituent who have do the right thing , work hard and contribute to their occupational pension scheme , so it matter to all of we that they get what they have be promise when it fall due , as set out in the rule of the scheme . when we last debate the issue , in Westminster Hall in January , I make the point that I would not speak about specific scheme , and I will not do so today . I will comment in more general term . what comment I might make about the generality of the issue should not be take as an oblique commentary on any of the scheme mention in the debate today , no matter how tempting that might be for some . since the debate in January , the world have indeed move on , and I have try to take some step as well . as have be say , we publish a consultation on option for define - benefit scheme in February . the consultation reflect a new funding landscape , where funding level be generally high and many scheme be in surplus . the consultation seek feedback on proposal to make surplus extraction easy , where it be safe to do so , and on the model for a future public sector consolidator , operate by the Pension Protection Fund . the consultation be now close and we be currently analyse the response . it close only a fortnight ago , so we be not quite there yet , but there will be a Government response in due course . but I can be clear today that well outcome for saver lie at the heart of our proposal . I stress , give the comment we have hear today , that the proposal on surplus sharing include a range of safeguard , as the starting and foundational principle , to ensure that member benefit be protect . I can understand the attraction of such change for government and corporate , but I impress upon the Minister the need to ensure that if change of this sort be to be make then the first protection always have to be for the beneficiary . if there be to be flexibility for government and corporate to get investment in big infrastructure project , that be to be encourage but it should never be at the expense of the pensioner themselves . that be very much the approach that I be take with this matter . it have be discuss at great length at the sector roundtable that I have be present at . it have be a very strong theme that I have hear , so I can assure the right hon . Gentleman that I be acutely conscious that that be the lens through which I be look at the issue . my hon . friend do say that thing have move on since January . may I gently remind he that it be in January that he tell the Work and Pensions Committee that he be wait to hear from his official who be in discussion with the Cabinet Office about the AEA Technology pension scandal ? he have since be say that there be no timeline for how these people will be advise of appropriate redress . do he expect there to be no timeline between now and the general election , or can they expect a definite answer at some point before then ? my right hon . friend have pre - empte a topic that I be about to come to , because I could see that it be go to come up in the discussion on the Select Committee report . I have now be to see the Cabinet Office Minister with my official , and my official then go back for a second visit . so although I can not give he a timeline , I can say that I be motor this issue along as rapidly as I can . when I say that this be complex , it be because it be complex ; it be not merely because that be a useful and convenient word to cover a multitude of thing . we continue to work as fast as we can to try to reach a conclusion . I hear the point that he have make to I , both in this place and outside , about want to draw this to a conclusion as good we can . the regulation that I refer to on the funding and investment strategy clarify what prudent funding plan look like , allow open scheme to take account of new member and future accrual , make it explicit that there be headroom in the regulatory environment for scheme to invest more productively , and require all scheme to be clear about their long - term strategy to protect member benefit . DB funding level have improve in recent year , and it be important that scheme take advantage of the opportunity that this bring . the scheme funding regulation will help scheme get the most from their asset , while at the same time ensure that scheme member can be confident that they will receive the benefit that they be promise . the regulation embe good practice and build on the exist funding regime for DB scheme by provide clear funding standard , which will ensure , as far as possible , that scheme be properly fund over the long term . scheme member can and should be confident that the regulation provide increase security for their promise pension , which be important to many of the people whom the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland be try to support through this debate . in addition , the new general code for the Pensions Regulator have come into effect since we last discuss these issue . the new general code consolidate and simplify 10 of the exist code to make it easy for trustee and those run occupational pension scheme to find the information they need on the regulator ’ standard of conduct and practice . it come into force at the end of March this year . I will do my good to reply to some of the point that have be raise in the debate before I continue with my speech . I be grateful to the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee , the right hon . member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , for cover many of the issue in what be a very helpful report on DB scheme . I know that we often discuss Select Committee report in this place on a Thursday , and it be quite right that we should do so . normally , however , we do so after the Government have issue their official response to that Committee report . if the Chair of the Select Committee will forgive I , I will not pre - empt every recommendation in the report . but I can assure he that I sit down for a marathon session with my official not so long ago , go through every last sentence in the report , so I can tell he that I be give the matter full consideration . it be worth note that both the right hon . member for East Ham and the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) mention the auto - enrolment reform . I be happy to place on the record today our ongoing commitment to consult in the mid - 2020s on that issue . I be keen to make progress . I hear all across the Chamber that there be a recognition of why it be important that we make as rapid progress as we can . the right hon . Gentleman mention that he will have to provide a consultation . he summarise the general tone of the contribution very well . certainly there have be more response to that consultation than to any other during my time in the Department . I have read most of they myself , rather than just wait for the summary . I have absorb similar mood music to the right hon . member for East Ham , and I hope that we can have a proper government response very soon . I thank the Minister for the attention that he be pay to the recommendation in our report . on the auto - enrolment review recommendation , do he envisage the consultation on implementation happen this side of the election ? no decision have yet be take on when that might be . it would be wrong for I to speculate at the Dispatch Box about when it might occur but , as I say , I be keen for it to happen as soon as we can manage it . the hon . member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) rightly raise his constituent and the AWS pensioner . as he may be aware from the oral evidence I give to the Work and Pensions Committee , I have meet with the pensioner . I fear this always sound like a clich é , but I listen carefully , commission work on the back of that meeting , receive that work and review it , and then commission some further work on the back of that . the policy development process be ongoing . I be happy to meet the hon . Gentleman . he ask for a timeline . he actually read out my timeline when he quote my reply to he from 18 April , so he answer his own question . as I say , I will happily meet with he and the pensioner , but I caution he that I doubt that I can say very much more at this stage than I have already . he may want to consider at what point he wish to have a further meeting , give that it be a long way for they to come from south Wales to hear I say what I already say to they a few month ago , but I be work hard on the issue . my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) speak eloquently about the potential value of cdc , not least in this place . I can not wait for the Royal Mail one to get off the ground . I welcome her comment on the importance of employer do right by their employee . we should always note just how many do that . she ask for an update on the pension dashboard . as I be sure the House know , there be a reset of the pension dashboard shortly before I arrive in the Department . I have take a close personal interest in it , have oversee a few rail infrastructure project in my time that also need a bit of a reset . the chief executive of the Money and Pensions Service , Oliver Morley , and I be take a careful , scrupulous and in - depth interest in the progress of the reset . I be satisfied that we be make good progress . the timetable for connection have now be issue , and we be very much on track . the hon . member for Strangford and for Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock ( Allan Dorans ) mention WASPI . I be not sure that there be much that I can usefully add right now , because I do not think that this be the debate for it . I note the comment that be make and entirely understand they . as the hon . member for Strangford mention , there will be a debate on WASPI in this place very soon , as an important part of the engagement with Parliament that the ombudsman identify . I look forward to hear what member have to say . I will do my good to cover a few issue around discretionary increase , because it be important to put on record the legal situation . there be clear legal requirement for scheme to provide indexation on all define - benefit right accrue after 1997 , and on guarantee minimum pension right accrue between 1988 and 1997 . some pension scheme go beyond the legal requirement and provide more generous indexation . if high level of indexation be set out in the scheme rule , those level of indexation must be pay . the scheme rule set out the pension package that member have the right to receive . some scheme provide additional indexation on a discretionary basis . in some case , these payment may have be make regularly in the past , but they be not part of the pension package promise by the employer ; rather , they be , and remain by definition , discretionary . I understand the frustration that will cause for pension scheme member no long receive such discretionary increase , and during a previous debate I commit to look closely at the situation in order to well understand whether the arrangement that we have in place be work as intend . that commitment still stand , and I recently meet with the Pensions Regulator to personally discuss the issue , along with many of the other concern that be raise in January , and indeed some of those raise today . I have to stress that the legislation do not and can not seek to set out exactly what every scheme must do in each and every circumstance . the legislation set out some minimum standard for indexation . that do not prevent more generous arrangement , which may be bring into a scheme through its rule or provide on a discretionary basis . those arrangement be the concern of the scheme trustee . the Government set a minimum legal requirement , which trustee and sponsor employer can exceed if they choose , if they judge that scheme can afford it in the short and the long term . it be important to achieve a balance , provide member with some measure of protection against inflation while not increase a scheme ' s cost beyond what most scheme can generally afford . Trustees , whether of big firm or small one , must have an eye to the future viability of their scheme . I be very grateful to all member who have contribute to this debate . it have be wide - range , partly because , be call " Pension Schemes " , it cover a multitude of issue beyond the more precise one that the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland raise . I be grateful to all who have participate , and I commit to work much hard on this issue in the future , because I know how important it be to many of our constituent . with two minute , I call Alistair Carmichael to wind up . when I contact the Speaker ' s Office this morning , I be tell there be only myself and the right hon . member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) down to speak , so I be delighted that we have have a good debate . we have have contribution from no few than 10 Members , which , give what be happen elsewhere today , be quite significant . a number of member make reference to the WASPI issue ; I do not do so in the course of my remark because it be not really germane , but it be a point well make and I very much associate myself with it . the ombudsman take long enough to get a report on that , and now we need to get on and honour it . otherwise , what be the point of have an ombudsman in the first place ? the function and purpose of debate such as this be to ensure that the concern of our constituent be hear in Government ; the presence of the Minister on the Front Bench be an important symbol of that . the company to which reference have be make , BP , Shell , ExxonMobil , Hewlett - Packard and Allied Steel and Wire , be some of the well know high street name in the country , and I hope that what we have hear in this debate will be hear also in the boardroom of those and other company . the people who run those company should understand that we be watch what they be do , that they have an obligation to treat their former worker and their pensioner fairly and that , if they do not have it within themselves to do that , we in Parliament and in Government will make sure that they have to . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider pension scheme . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker , I understand there be report online of a veteran allegedly be prevent from use their veteran ID card , which be a government - issue ID card , for vote today in the election that be take place across the country today . I be sure that will be of concern to member across the House . a Government Minister have apparently make a public apology and say that they will try to get the issue resolve . I wonder whether you have have any notice of an urgent statement next week on the matter . it do seem bizarre , not least because current military identity card can be use , and the card be a government - issue document . I declare an interest as a holder of one of those veteran card , but it do seem very strange and I hope we can get some clarity on this from the Government . have you have any notice of such a statement ? I have have no notification from any Government Minister that there will be a statement today . as you know , at the end of proceeding today , we go into the May recess and we will be reassemble on Tuesday . I know that those on the Treasury Bench will make certain that your comment be make available to Ministers , in order that there can be a response . Kingsmill Massacre Inquest Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) first of all , may I thank Mr Speaker and the Table Office for allow and facilitate this debate ? it be with sadness , but also with determination and commitment , that I bring this matter to the House . I have speak to the Minister of State , who I be pleased to see in his place ; I give he my speech beforehand and tell he some of the thing that I be ask for . with that purpose , we try to move forward to address these issue . the debate refer to an event that take place 48 year ago . the reason it have take so long be that the inquest happen only about two or three week ago . although I ask for an urgent question on the Monday after that , I be very pleased to have this Adjournment debate . this date be perhaps a poignant one because we understand that the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 have come into effect , which should mean the end of the probing of legacy issue . however , I be aware that the Police Ombudsman for Northern Ireland have say that her remit be to continue investigate former police officer for a further year . I be not sure why that remit continue , because people seek truth and justice , include about Kingsmill and in other avenue , have be tell that the date be pass . that be one of the question that I have ask the Minister , and perhaps he could respond to it later . it would appear that the vilification of the Royal Ulster Constabulary be to continue , with funding available , and I find that difficult to understand . my party — and , I believe , all opposition party — oppose the 2023 Act in its entirety , include on state body . my view be that the Government be seek to cease any Police Ombudsman case . I be afraid that that question must be answer , because there be an anomaly and a discrepancy there . those who love one at Kingsmill and elsewhere must have their question answer . the Kingsmill massacre live in the annal of history , along with the Darkley gospel hall attack , as the pinnacle of evil intention . there be absolutely no doubt about that in my mind or the mind of people outside this Chamber who be watch the debate . I want to give some detail about what take place , because I think that they will illustrate the evilness of man . the massacre take place on 5 January 1976 , just after 5 . 30 pm . a red Ford Transit minibus be carry textile worker home from their work along the rural road to Bessbrook . as the bus clear the rise of a hill , it be stop by a man in combat uniform stand on the road and flash a torch . the worker assume they be be stop and search by the British Army . as the bus stop , eleven gunman in combat uniform and with blacken face emerge from the hedge . a man with a pronounce English accent — perhaps that put the bus driver at ease — begin talk . he order the worker to get out of the bus and to line up face it with their hand on the roof . he then ask , " who be the Catholic in the bus ? " fear that the gunman be loyalist who have come to kill their catholic colleague , his workmate try to stop he from identify himself . however , when Hughes step forward the gunman tell he : " get down the road and don ' t look back . " the lead gunman then say , " right , " and the other immediately open fire on the worker . the eleven man be shoot — [ interruption . ] I be extremely grateful to the hon . gentleman for remind we of just how wicked those event be , and for the passion with which he represent his constituent on these issue . I be clear that those be not the action of soldier in a war ; they be the dishonourable crime of cowardly terrorist . it be a matter of great regret that they have not express contrition or remorse , and that they do not confess to those crime and suffer the justice that they be owe . I thank the Minister for that intervention . the eleven man be shoot at very close range with automatic rifle , which include Armalites . it be clear that 10 man be murder because they be protestant — that be what it be about . [ interruption . ] a total of 136 round be fire in less than a minute . the man be shoot at waist height and fall to the ground . some fall on top of each other , either dead or wound . when the initial burst of gunfire stop , the gunman reload their weapon . the order be give to " finish they off " — in other word , no survivor — and another burst of gunfire be fire into the heaped body of the workman . one of the gunman also walk among the die man and shoot each of they in the head with a pistol as they lie on the ground . such horror ; such barbarity ; such evil . ten of the man die at the scene ; I will name those 10 , if I can . they be John Bryans , 46 year of age ; Robert Chambers , 19 year of age ; Reginald Chapman , 25 year of age ; Walter Chapman , 23 year of age ; Robert Freeburn , 50 year of age ; Joseph Lemmon , 46 year of age ; John McConville , 20 year of age ; James McWhirter , 58 year of age ; Robert Walker , 46 year of age ; and Kenneth Worton , 24 year of age . Alan Black , who be only 32 at the time , be the only one who survive . he have be shoot 18 time , and one of the bullet have graze his head . he say : " I didn ' t even flinch because I know if I move there would be another one " — only that time , it would not have graze his head , but would have kill he . after carry out the shooting , the gunman calmly walk away . shortly after , a married couple come upon the scene of the killing and begin pray beside the victim . those be the undisputed fact of the case . however , what the inquiry have find be what be first suggest by the Historical Enquiries Team investigation in 2011 : that although the IRA be supposedly on ceasefire at the time , it be in fact the provisional IRA that carry out the atrocity . the coroner say in his finding : " the attack be carry out by the IRA operate under the authority of the Army Council which have , in April 1975 , give wide authorisation to IRA unit " . it be sanction at the high level by IRA terrorist scumbag . however , the coroner fail to name the three know IRA terrorist individual who carry out the killing , who be now decease themselves . he should have do so ; it be common knowledge , but for the purpose of the coroner ' s report , they should have be name . I think it be important that that be put on record : he fail to name and shame at least three know individual , now themselves decease . those name be available in various medium outlet , include the BBC . eleven automatic weapon be use to kill those 10 protestant workman . those weapon be link to 40 other serious republican terrorist crime over a 15 - year period , include the murder of two paratrooper in 1974 and the killing of Chief Superintendent Harry Breen and Superintendent Bob Buchanan in 1989 . the coroner ' s report far find that the organisation of the attack be plan well in advance in the Republic of Ireland . I have speak to the Minister of State , and he know that I be go to ask about this : the excuse within the finding , that the garda í be not ask for information that they hold at the time , be completely untenable . it far make a mockery of the current legal proceeding and the Government ' s legacy legislation that this clear evidence of the garda í ' s unwillingness to help with investigation , then and now , be so blatant . what police organisation would say , " you didn ' t ask we for the information , so therefore we ' ll not give it to you " ? police organisation — in this case , the Garda S í och á na — should have work alongside the Royal Ulster Constabulary and ensure that all the evidence they have be make available , but it clearly be not . there be question to ask in relation to that . the other thing that concern I greatly — this be the second part of the question that the Kingsmill family be ask — be that the coroner refuse to disclose information contain in secret file provide to he by the security force in closed hearing . the three people who carry out the attack have on - the - run certificate give to they so that they could get away with their past crime . it grieve I greatly to have to record the heartache and pain that those family feel because some of those people have get off . why and how could that be the case ? there be another point I want to raise with the Minister , and it be really important to do so simply because there be just so many question to be ask . the finding omit any discourse on the perpetrator , when it be say in south Armagh at the time that the dog on the street know who have carry out this atrocity — the Kingsmill massacre — with the murder of 10 innocent protestant people . indeed , it be widely hold that the perpetrator carry on - the - run letter . some elect member have publicly joke — I can think of one in particular who joke with loaf of Kingsmill bread on the anniversary . the family do not laugh : they carry the pain . some of the family wonder why the investigation of this massacre have receive nothing like the result of other investigation that have result in prosecution . I make the point to the Minister of State , whom I speak to beforehand : why be it that this be plan in the Republic of Ireland and be carry out from the jurisdiction of the Republic of Ireland , and those people be able to cross the border with impunity and then the Garda S í och á na do not seem to do anything about it . the Minister of State will know my own personal case , and indeed everyone in this House probably know it . my cousin Kenneth be murder by the IRA as well — order . if the hon . member wish to take the time to compose himself , I be quite happy to wait for he to do so . there be no pressure on he whatsoever . I know how emotional this be for he , and indeed for the House , so I be quite happy for he to compose himself . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . my cousin Kenneth Smyth be murder by the IRA on 10 December 1971 . I use that as a comparison because it be true , and the three people who kill he escape across the border , in the same way as the IRA man — 11 of they — who kill the 10 Protestants at Kingsmill . there be a question to be answer , and there be a debt of justice . I be a believer , as you know , Mr Deputy Speaker , and I believe that people in the next world will have their justice , and we will have justice . however , I would like to see justice happen for the family in this world , and that be what I wish to see . on behalf of the Kingsmill family , I want the answer to the question : why be the Garda S í och á na not forthcoming ? on the murder of the two police constable , about which my party have certainly ask question in the past , we want justice for they as well . I have hear the cry for a public inquest , and it be very clear from what people be say that they want to see that . I think it be right — very right — that the request should be forthcoming , yet it appear that the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act will halt this . however , as I indicate at the start of this all - too - brief contribution , the police ombudsman have highlight that her role have be permit to carry on for a further year , so why be the Kingsmill massacre family preclude ? a response to the coroner ' s report , which I be go to quote in its entirety , state : " it be for the reason outline above that Alan " , who be the survivor , " the Kingsmills family and " other " have call on the Secretary of State " — in this case , it be the Minister of State who be answer on his behalf — " to announce a full , independent Public Inquiry into the Kingsmills Massacre . we would like to have the support of our public representative " . I believe that the coroner ' s finding have reaffirm that call . it be what we have all know for year , and there be many people in the Province who seek justice . our family seek justice , and the Kingsmill massacre family seek justice . there have to be a day of reckoning , and I would certainly like to see that day of reckoning happen in this world . the coroner ' s find reaffirm what we have all know for many year , but that be all , and the family be ask for more . I ask this of the Minister of State , with great gentleness but firmness — he will not mind my do so — and in a way that I hope underline that the Kingsmill massacre family deserve more . I very humbly ask today for that inquiry and for that justice , with a public inquiry and with those question answer for they . thank you very much . I be glad to respond to today ' s debate on a subject that be as ever , as we have see , very painful and difficult . the Government recognise that , as my hon . friend the Member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) have show , the victim be people who feel . they be people who grieve and as my hon . friend — he be my hon . friend — have vividly illustrate , the scar run deep and the pain that people suffer , even today , be very great and vivid . we certainly recognise that . People want fact and they want justice . I be extremely grateful to my hon . friend for give people voice today . he have do it with great skill , authenticity and passion . it be worth say if he will allow I — I hope he will forgive I — that he be a strong and courageous man . I know that , and I myself feel that I reflect some of the passion that he do , even though I can never quite feel it . I live through the trouble as a boy , and as a young Royal Air Force officer in the ' 90 . since I be on fast jet I be never post to Northern Ireland , but I do have to check under my car every time I get in it in the ' 90 . People be shoot dead — people who perhaps look like I because we have short hair and look military . I have not suffer loss as my hon . friend have , and any of we who have any reason to consider the trouble and what they mean , must in great humility acknowledge the suffering of those who lose those they love . indeed , we have to acknowledge the contribution of those who serve to defend we from great evil , about which he have elaborate . I hope that today I will be able to answer my hon . friend ' s question , and I be extremely grateful for advance sight of his remark . I believe I will be able to satisfy he in at least some regard , and if I be not able to , I will be glad to meet he and discuss matter far . I come first to the finding of the inquest . the Kingsmill murder , in which the Provisional IRA shoot dead 10 protestant workman and leave one severely injure , be an appalling example of the pain and suffering inflict on civilian during the trouble . we must never forget that it be the civilian population who suffer most in term of life lose from that period of violence , with close to 1 , 900 people kill . the victim and family of Kingsmill , include the sole survivor of the attack , Mr Alan Black , have fight for many decade to get information and accountability from those responsible . the coroner for the inquest deliver clear and detailed finding , include : that Kingsmill be a horrific and overtly sectarian atrocity commit by the IRA under the authority of the Army Council , and the attack have absolutely no justification ; that the attack have be plan well in advance , and an attack of such scale require a significant amount of planning ; that the attack occur in the aftermath of , and ostensibly as a response to the Reavey and o ' dowd murder , but the reality be that it have be plan long before they take place . the coroner also say that the rumour concern the involvement of Captain Robert Nairac in the Kingsmill attack be entirely false , and I would like to quote from the Judicial Communications Office : " the Coroner be entirely satisfied that Captain Nairac have no role whatsoever in the Kingsmill atrocity . he say : ' Captain Robert Nairac be a highly decorate soldier , and his memory be ill - serve by those who persist in rumour monger concern his involvement in Kingsmill . moreover , the false accusation serve to distract from the proper attribution of responsibility for those who carry out the attack . rumour concern the involvement of Captain Robert Nairac in the Kingsmill attack be entirely false . ' " the coroner also say that the attack be , at least in part , plan in Ireland . the border between Northern Ireland and Ireland be " exploit by terrorist " and allow for " planning , training , organisation , weapon storage and retreat at a safe physical and legal distance from the authority that would be face with investigate terrorist act in Northern Ireland " . despite these finding I acknowledge , with regret , that there will be some unanswered question for the family . that be unfortunately often the case in what be complex , sensitive , and decade - old trouble - relate case . one key reason why such question remain unanswered in this case be what the coroner describe as " the absence of any disclosure or evidence from those who cause the death " . the coroner say that the inquest " do not receive disclosure from any individual concern in the attack , nor their organisation , nor their political representative . " in fact , numerous call to assist the inquest be meet with silence . as a result , despite the savagery of the attack , the coroner find that there have be " no acknowledgement by the IRA of the utter wrongness of the atrocity , its impact on those bereaved or the damage cause to the entire community " . as we look forward to an amazing period of opportunity for Northern Ireland ahead of we , with the Executive restore and perform extremely well , there be a great role to be play as we move towards reconciliation by people who have the opportunity to express contrition and remorse . it be extremely difficult to forgive someone who claim that their action be necessary and that they be soldier in a war . they be not ; they commit act of terrorism , as this incident clearly illustrate . I encourage everyone involve to express contrition and remorse , to seek forgiveness and to help Northern Ireland to move on . that be in everyone ' s interest , whatever their view on the constitutional question . the hon . Gentleman ask I about the Police Ombudsman for Northern Ireland and letter of comfort . to address his point about the ombudsman ' s work , I will provide clarification on what investigative body can still deliver . section 38 of the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 specifically prohibit the commencement or continuation of any trouble - relate criminal investigation from 1 May 2024 , apart from those that will be conduct by the Independent Commission for Reconciliation and Information Recovery . that remain the case for all investigative body , include the Police Ombudsman for Northern Ireland . in the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 ( Commencement no . 2 and Transitional Provisions ) Regulations 2024 , which we lay yesterday , we include a transitional provision to clarify that in case where an investigation have be complete prior to yesterday , 1 May , and only final administrative task remain outstanding , which may include activity such as report writing , family engagement or publication , they may be retain and complete by their original owner , but no further investigative work may now be do , except by the ICRIR in relation to trouble - era offence , and that include the ombudsman . the transitional provision apply to any body that have such outstanding final administrative task on 1 May 2024 , include Operation Kenova , the Police Service of Northern Ireland and the Police Ombudsman for Northern Ireland . the issue for the family be that they be aware that the Garda S í och á na have information pertinent to this atrocity — this massacre — of 10 innocent . the question that they be ask and that I be ask as a Member of Parliament , which I hope the Minister of State can respond to , be about evidence not available before that be available now . it could have a determine impact on decision . I know I also ask on behalf of the family for a public inquiry , but if all the information and evidence that should have be available , but be not , be available now , it could put a different stain or paint a different colour on what happen . it could lead to those who be responsible be hold accountable . I believe I will be able to cover all those point that the hon . Gentleman have raise as I go through my remark . I hope you will not mind my saying , Mr Deputy Speaker , that we be not short of time . it be worth , for the hon . Gentleman and those watch , my give a proper answer . I hope to do that , and I will certainly take further intervention from he as we go on . in relation to alleged on - the - run letter in the hand of perpetrator , the then Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , my right hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) set out the Government ' s position on the on - the - run scheme fully in her statement to the House of Commons on 9 September 2014 . that follow detailed consideration of the report by Lady Justice Hallett , which be publish in July 2014 . in her statement , the then Secretary of State be clear that the on - the - run scheme be at an end and there be no basis for any reliance on letter receive by so - call on - the - run under the scheme . during legislative passage of the legacy Act , the Government again confirm that position . I do not know who do or do not receive on - the - run letter . I will come on to that matter in a moment , but it will now be an operational matter for the ICRIR to consider . it be not something on which I can elaborate far . will the Minister give way ? I will , but I will talk about the icrir straight away . if the responsibility fall on that body , be it in order to ask it to clarify the matter of the on - the - run letter ? that be clearly not do in the coroner ' s report , but the family indicate clearly that it do have they . I would be grateful if family make reference to the ICRIR . later , I shall publish a link to its website , which speak about investigation . I have have a good look at the website in prepare for the debate — I will come on to that — and I will send that link to my hon . friend , so that he can share it with people . yes , people should certainly make a reference , and I hope that the ICRIR will feel able to satisfy they , but he will know that it be independent of Ministers , so that be not a matter for I , but for the commission . I believe that Members of the House will share the Government ' s disappointment that the inqu could not obtain the co - operation it desire from those implicate in , or with knowledge about , the atrocity , and who may have be able to provide additional information for the family involve . the Government have long recognise that truly effective information recovery require the co - operation of the various different actor during the trouble . that be exactly why the new Independent Commission for Reconciliation and Information Recovery be support by both a legislative requirement for full disclosure by the state , and by power to compel witness to provide evidence . I be pleased that the ICRIR commence its function on 1 May , as expect . those power mean that the independent commission will have the tool that it need to obtain as much information as possible for individual and family . in fact , the Northern Ireland High Court recently find that the disclosure power hold by the commission be not only compliant with the state ' s international obligation , but could improve on current inquest mechanism . individual suspect of hold information that might be pertinent to a review by the commission will now be require to co - operate with the commission or risk a significant sanction . refusal to comply with a notice of disclosure by the commission be subject to a penalty notice of up to £ 5 , 000 . I turn to remark by Peter Sheridan , the commissioner for investigation . in an article release by PA Media title , " chance of prosecution from new legacy body ' vanishingly small ' " , Mr Sheridan say : " I have hear across the board about how justice stop on the first of May . actually , if people read the information , the opposite be true . I , as the commissioner for investigation , have the ability to do criminal justice - style investigation and report to the prosecution service either in England and Wales or here in Northern Ireland where we find evidence available . " he far say : " I want to be absolutely honest with victim and survivor on what be a vanishingly small possibility around criminal justice prosecution . not that there isn ' t still hope , there could be evidence available that be enough to prosecute . but he also explain : " if you take Kenova , £ 40 million , eight year work and no prosecution . so we have to be honest with people of what ' s achievable about case that be 20 , 30 , 40 , 50 year old . " that be the situation we face , and that be why we have institute the commission . it will have the opportunity to engage in culpability investigation . my hon . friend and the family be keen for people to be name . culpability investigation be describe on the website . I understand my hon . friend ' s concern regard the naming of individual . it be important to note that there should be consideration of many issue , and judgment make , include about the safety of life . such consideration will remain relevant as the process move forward . the ICRIR will seek to establish all the circumstance of the death or other harmful conduct , use its full range of statutory power , include the ability to compel witness . the commission will , at the conclusion of its review , write a final report . it will make finding , on the balance of probability , on issue such as who and what be to blame ; importantly , it will answer specific question ask by family , where that be possible . however , the content of report be an operational matter for the ICRIR . it be independent of Ministers , as be right and proper . I be confident that many people out there would not believe minister , so it be important that the ICRIR be independent . I encourage people to look at the website , and I will tweet the link later . I hope that the hon . Gentleman will feel able to share it with family . turn to the Irish Government , one of the coroner ' s other key finding — the exploitation of the border in the planning , execution or aftermath of criminal activity , not just in this case but throughout the entirety of the trouble — be well establish , as the hon . Gentleman indicate . as he will know well , there be many trouble - relate case in which criminal activity be suspect to have take place across jurisdiction . for individual and family who be the victim of such case , effective information recovery will require the provision of information by the irish authority . one such case be the Omagh bombing . the UK Government continue to press the Irish Government to co - operate fully with the inquiry on that , and , if necessary , to establish similar process in Ireland , to facilitate the full provision of answer for the family affect . I repeat that invitation to the Irish Government today . they be very welcome to establish process for co - operation with the commission , to the end that the hon . Gentleman mention . where they have information that could help with information discovery and reconciliation , I encourage they to work with the commission . to date , the Irish Government have decline to commit to co - operate with the commission to facilitate the provision of information to family who request it . the recent Northern Ireland High Court judgment find the commission to be operationally independent from Government and capable of conduct review in accordance with the state ' s obligation under article 2 and 3 of the european convention on human right . we hope that that will lead to further engagement by the Irish Government with the commission . the approach take by the Irish Government to co - operate with the Kingsmill inquest — the coroner express gratitude for the co - operation of the irish authority — should act as a useful template for future co - operation with both the Omagh bombing inquiry and the ICRIR . I would like to put on record that the relationship between the UK Government and the Irish Government be , today , one of robust friendship . we be friend and partner , not rival or opponent . we be go forward together in a spirit of constructive co - operation on a wide range of matter . I be proud to have play some part in make that possible . this would be a great time for our two nation to co - operate in detail on issue of the past , to help lay to rest various suspicion or expose wrongdoing , and so make progress . I thank the Minister for that positive outlook . I bring this Adjournment debate on behalf of the family who lose 10 love one , and the survivor Alan Black . could the Minister ' s answer and the correspondence be convey to the Taoiseach down south and the necessary Minister there , with the message that we seek justice for the Kingsmill massacre family , to ensure that after 48 year , their case be answer ? I would be astonish if the Irish Government be not follow this debate live . we have friend in the embassy of Ireland and in the Government of Ireland whom we respect , and with whom we wish to continue to develop a friendship and co - operation . the relationship between the UK and Ireland be fundamental . for too long , we fail to look west , but we should have do . as be often say , one of the problem we face be that the irish never forget the history , and the English never remember . we need to make the effort to remember , and to go forward as friend in a spirit of co - operation . it be precisely because we respect Ireland and its status as an independent nation make its own choice that we can really only plead , encourage and invite it to join we in work with the ICRIR . the hon . Gentleman make the case on why an Garda S í och á na be not forthcoming . I will just say that that will have be hear by the Irish Government , and I think he make a powerful case for further co - operation . the Garda will have record that may assist in answer the kind of question that he raise . it be in their interest to defend their excellent reputation . in the interest of defend themselves , the record should be share . I certainly wish to offer no criticism . in closing , I express my sincere hope that the conclusion of the long - run Kingsmill inquest will bring some form of comfort to the family affect . where question remain , I urge the family seek answer to make use of the power of the new commission . the ICRIR be lead by Sir Declan Morgan KC and staff by dedicated individual experience in work on legacy and reconciliation issue , and the Government have full confidence in its ability to deliver for victim and survivor , include those affect by the awful , appalling and unjustifiable action of the IRA at Kingsmill in January 1976 . question put and agree to . House adjourn .