Speaker ' s statement I would like to remind hon . member of the important courtesy relate to constituency business . you must make every effort to inform colleague in advance whenever you intend to visit their constituency other than for purely private purpose . this apply equally to Front Benchers and to Back Benchers . failure to do so be rightly regard by colleague as very discourteous . oral Answers to Questions Education the Secretary of State be ask — Childcare Availability what step she be take to increase the availability of high - quality childcare . the early year be my no . 1 priority as Education Secretary . we will deliver a sea change in early year education to give parent well work choice and child well life chance . we will start by repurpose empty classroom to create or expand school - base nursery , make childcare more accessible and affordable for hard - press family . I encourage state - fund primary school , work with their local authority , to consider apply before the application window close on 19 December . with Government datum show that 70 , 000 more early year place need to be create by next year , and with an overhaul of outdated business rate promise , will the Secretary of State commit to remove unfair business rate from nursery and pre - school , which will now be mostly deliver government - fund childcare ? it be undoubtedly a challenge to deliver the roll - out , but we be determined to do it because it be so important for parent and for child ' s life chance . we intend to reform the early year sector overall . we will be look very closely at this into next year ; I would welcome further input from the hon . Gentleman and his party on the way forward . rise — I call Ashley Dalton . oh , you be not stand . this be not direct at you personally , but when you stand I think you be go to ask a question , and then when you sit down I be leave high and dry . as a mother in the north - west , I thank the Secretary of State and welcome the Government ' s £ 1 . 8 billion commitment to expand publicly fund childcare . as we transition towards more publicly fund childcare , can she share any plan for interim support to keep childcare affordable for work family rely on private provider ? my hon . friend be right . as the roll - out continue , we will shortly reach a situation in which 80 % of childcare be government - back . it be therefore right that in those circumstance we look closely at whether we be get the good - quality provision for our child . as part of our early year strategy review , we will take account of all consideration . we be look at a range of factor for the sector , include workforce recruitment , quality of provision and much more besides . I look forward to work with she on this . we welcome the new shadow Secretary of State . thank you , Mr Speaker . may I say how delighted I be to be in the role ? we will be a constructive Opposition work in the good interest of young people . in that spirit , I ask the Secretary of State to confirm that the Government ' s early year fund rate for all age group will increase to reflect the change in employer national insurance contribution . will she give we a figure for how much that will cost the Department for Education ? I welcome the right hon . Lady to her place : it be the good job in opposition , just as mine be the good job in government . I be sure that whatever disagreement we might have in the week and month to come , we can all get behind the importance of education to our country . we will set out more detail on funding rate in due course . what I would say to the right hon . Lady be that the conservative party leave behind commitment , but no plan to make they real . instead , they leave we a £ 22 billion hole in the public finance , and this Government have have to take some tough decision to get our public finance back on a stable footing . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . two third of early year place be deliver by private and voluntary provider . far to the shadow Education Secretary ' s question , what assessment have the Department for Education make of the impact of last week ' s national insurance rise on those provider ? how much more do the Department expect that parent will have to pay in nursery fee ? how much additional cost will the Department have to bear to fund exist and plan so - call free hour for parent ? as be announce at the Budget , we expect to provide £ 8 . 1 billion for the early year entitlement in 2025 - 26 , which be an increase of about 30 % on the previous year . we will continue to deliver the roll - out , because this Government have seek to protect education priority in the Budget . on the hon . member ' s precise question , we be look in more detail at what the change mean for provider in the early year sector , and we will have more to say shortly . alongside the change to the national insurance employer contribution rate , we be increase the employment allowance to £ 10 , 500 and be expand this to all eligible employer , so small provider may pay no national insurance at all in 2025 - 26 . alongside formal childcare , many parent want to have the option of spend more time at home with their baby in those precious early month that be so crucial for a child ' s development . do the Secretary of State agree that at less than half the minimum wage , statutory maternity pay be far from " excessive " ? what discussion have she have with ministerial colleague about boost support for those parent who want to spend more time at home , rather than be rush back to work , in order to give family real choice in how they care for their child ? I agree that it be important we get the balance right . that be why the Deputy Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for Business and Trade be look carefully , as part of our wide reform to employment support and employment law , at what more we need to do around parental leave entitlement . I share the hon . member ' s concern about the comment we have hear from the now leader of the Conservative party , the right hon . member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) , about maternity pay . I want to make sure that parent have choice about what work for they , what be good for they and what good support their child ' s development in those crucial early year . Knife crime : Preventive Education what step she be take to provide preventive education for schoolchildren about knife crime . what school teach can play an important part , alongside wide activity , in the Government ' s safe street mission and tackle knife crime . relationship , sex and health education include content on situation that lead to young people carry knife , include criminal exploitation , county line operation and groom relationship . we be review the content to ensure that it remain relevant and protect child ' s wellbee . Greater Manchester continue to experience some of the high rate of knife violence in the country , with more than 10 , 000 record incident since 2020 . organisation such as the Greater Manchester violence reduction unit have be do excellent work in early prevention by engage child and young people through community - lead project , include theatre production . give the importance of early community - base intervention , do the Minister agree that provide support for such initiative be important in tackle knife violence ? I thank my hon . friend for raise such an important topic and highlight the good work of the Greater Manchester violence reduction unit . as well as the work on the RSHE curriculum , the Government will create a new young future programme , intervene early to stop young people be draw into crime through preventive action and learn from good practice across the country . it be vital that we have a system that can identify and support those young people who need it most , be they victim or potential perpetrator . preventive education be critical , and not just when it come to knife crime . a recent report from the University of Bath highlight that one in six vape confiscate in school contain the synthetic drug Spice , a highly addictive drug that condemn young people — in particular , vulnerable young people — to a life of crime and addiction . will the Secretary of State agree to a special educational programme to address the alarming issue of Spice - spike vape in school ? we want to make sure that every school and college across our country be a safe environment for child to learn . I be happy to meet the hon . member to understand those issue in more detail . teach Assistants and Support Staff what step she plan to take to improve the pay , term and condition of teach assistant and support staff . school support staff be crucial to ensure that we give child the good possible life chance . that be why we be reinstate the school support staff negotiate body , the new national voice for some of those who do the most important work in our school . in 2010 , the Tories scrap the body . within our first 100 day , Labour start the legislative process to bring it back . that be because we value the vital role that support staff play in our education system . low pay and limited career progression be drive many teaching support staff out of our classroom . three quarter of the profession be either consider leave or be actively look to leave , with one in five teaching assistant post currently vacant . will my right hon . friend recommit to address this recruitment and retention crisis and ensure that these hugely value employee receive the wage and term and condition that they have long for , for so long ? my hon . friend can be assure that the school support staff negotiate body will be task with establish a national term and condition handbook , training , career progression route and fair pay rate for support staff to make sure that we can recruit and retain the brilliant people , include teach assistant and catering staff , who be essential to the functioning of our school . teach assistant in my constituency be struggle to support a grow number of child who need extra help with speech and language skill . what be the Secretary of State do to ensure that all school support staff have access to relevant training in speech and language development so that they can well support those child ? the hon . Lady be right to raise that . our teaching assistant in particular have a crucial role to play in support child with special educational need and disability . that be why we have commit additional funding this year so that we can roll out the Nuffield early language intervention to ensure that there be additional early speech and language support for child who be struggle . our teaching assistant and other in support role will be a crucial part of that , but I recognise that there be much more that we need to do after 14 year of conservative failure . I call the shadow Minister . on pay , what be the cost to school and college of the national insurance increase ? how much will be provide to they in compensation ? will the Secretary of State confirm clearly that they will be fully compensate for the increase price that supplier and indirectly employ member of staff , such as caterer and it and premise staff , will charge as a result ? will those indirect cost be cover — yes or no ? I welcome the hon . gentleman to his place . school and college will be compensate at a national level . I would , however , point out to he that when I become Secretary of State in July , I be present with the teacher ' pay review body award of 5 . 5 % that the last Government receive , put in a drawer and then run away from and call an election . we have back our teacher , who be crucial to the life chance of our child . that be why I be delighted that we be able to honour that award and recognise the vital contribution our teacher make . that be how we will recruit 6 , 500 new expert teacher . if the opposition refuse to back our commitment on vat , they should set out how many teacher they intend to cut . School Curriculum : Workplace Skills what step she be take to link the school curriculum with skill need in the workplace . under the Conservatives , young people feel unprepared for their future , and employer agree . that be why this Labour Government have establish an independent curriculum and assessment review chair by Professor Becky Francis . the review aim to deliver a broad and rich curriculum that ensure that young people leave education ready for life and work , which include embed digital , oracy and life skill . there be a shortage of technical skilled worker across our economy . it be a chronic problem , not least in sector such as clean energy . for example , there be only 3 , 000 register heat pump installer , but to deliver the last Government ' s target of 600 , 000 installation a year we would need 27 , 000 of they . that be repeat across the economy . do my hon . friend agree that school have a hugely important role in encourage young people into technical role ? what be the Government do to support young people into technical , skilled job ? I congratulate my hon . friend on his work on the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee . he have a long - establish record of championing this issue in the House , and I agree with he . that be why our curriculum review will include speak to employer as part of the consultation about the essential knowledge and skill that will support and enable student to adapt and thrive in the world and workplace of the future , as well as ensure that we have that specialist knowledge in school to support young people to thrive . everyone know that a knowledge - rich curriculum be the reason why the english education system improve dramatically under the last government . the embed of academic rigour produce phenomenal result in PISA — the programme for international student assessment . with that in mind , will the Minister confirm that she have no intention of dilute the curriculum or any focus on academic rigour ? the hon . Gentleman ignore the many challenge that young people face in our school system . we have establish the independent review , which will consider area to focus on in the light of the evidence , response to the call to evidence and widespread engagement with stakeholder , include employer . the review will seek to focus on the most significant issue in our curriculum and assessment , but will not destabilise the system . we be look for evolution , not revolution , of our curriculum . I call the shadow Minister . I think we will have to agree to disagree with the Minister about the record of the last government on drive up apprenticeship , and in particular the work do by our colleague Robert Halfon . look ahead , by how much do the Minister expect the number of full apprenticeship to grow over the course of this Parliament ? will she publish the Department ' s assessment of the move to the growth and skill levy and what that do to the number of people start apprenticeship ? our reform growth and skill levy will deliver great flexibility for learner and employer and will align with our industrial strategy , create route into good skilled job in grow industry , such as construction , digital and green skill . we want a short duration of foundation apprenticeship in those target sector to help more people learn new high skill at work , fuel innovation in business across the country , and to provide high - quality entry pathway for young people . we be in the process of design the growth and skill levy , and we will set out more detail in due course . Vocational Training what step she be take to help increase the number of student undertake vocational training course . further education be vital in break down barrier to opportunity , drive growth and generate clean energy . the Budget allocate £ 300 million to support young people and improve skill development . in September , the Department launch a new phase of the " it all start with skill " campaign to promote programme such as apprenticeship and t - level . after 14 year of Tory decline , there be much to do in this country to rebuild our crumble infrastructure . a lot of people need job to help we achieve that . I be glad that the new Government be work to increase the number of student be train in the industry of the future , but will the Minister tell we how she be work across Government to make sure that more young people can find those opportunity locally , rather than have to move away from their local community ? central to our opportunity mission be that where someone be from should not determinewhere they end up in life . this government be serious about support young people . we be work across Government to ensure that young people be support in their community through devolution , local growth plan , local skill improvement plan and the youth guarantee . the large provider of vocational education and training opportunity in my constituency be Harrogate college , which be previously promise more than £ 20 million in a combination of loan and grant under the FE capital transformation fund . I have write repeatedly to the Government to ask if they can secure an extension to that funding period because , due to a hold - up in the planning process , it will not be able to meet the deadline . will the Minister commit to guarantee the funding for Harrogate college for that rebuild ? the hon . member outline many failing by the previous Government . I will ask my noble Friend the Minister for Skills to meet he . Special Educational Needs and Disabilities what step her Department be take to improve support for child with special educational need and disability . what step her Department be take to improve support for child with special educational need and disability . what step her Department be take to support child with SEND . what step she be take to improve SEND provision in Warwickshire . every child deserve the opportunity to achieve and to thrive but , currently , far from every child have that chance . we have announce that high need funding will increase by almost £ 1 billion in 2025 - 26 compare with 2024 - 25 . we will work with the sector to strengthen accountability , improve inclusivity through Ofsted , support professional to increase SEND expertise and encourage school to set up resource provision or special educational need unit in mainstream school . my constituent Suzie wait for an education , health and care plan for her son Harrison for 42 week . by law , they have to be provide within 20 week , so conservative - run Kent county council take more than twice the amount of time that it should have do . when it come , it be full of mistake , and Harrison be now in the wrong school , his class size be too big and he do not have the specialist support he require . previously , Kent county council be put in special measure to sort out the problem with EHCP provision . would the Secretary of State support KCC go back into special measure so that student like Harrison get the support that they deserve ? I be sorry to hear about the challenge face by the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent . local authority have be impact by the increase demand for education , health and care plan and by workforce capacity issue , so more efficient and effective service delivery and communication with school and family be central to turn that around . we will work as quickly as possible to ensure a more effective response and early identification for child , and I will take away the particular example he raise . Devon county council be spend £ 55 million on private provision for special educational need and disability , without enough quality control by the county council . state school in mid and east Devon want to be able to help provide more SEND specialist and teaching assistant , but ehcp be prescribe one - to - one care with just £ 3 , 000 , which be hardly enough for one - to - one provision . will the Government consider set up more SEND resource basis in Devon ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important point . it be vital for turn around the current situation face by far too many part of the country . there be not sufficient mainstream inclusion for child with special educational need , there be not enough specialist unit as part of mainstream school inclusion , and we do not have the specialist place need , so I will , of course , take away the hon . Gentleman ' s specific example . in West Sussex , EHCP request be run at over 120 per month . will the Secretary of State ' s SEND reform include measure that could make it hard to get an ehcp , potentially make it hard for child to qualify for special school place ? the hon . Lady raise an important point . I suspect it be on the back of 14 year of let down child who need the education that be clearly want in so many part of the country that explain the number of member raise these issue today . she would do well to reflect on the record of the past 14 year . we be change the situation as fast as we can , but it will take time . the previous Conservative Government leave SEND family in Stratford - on - Avon to fend for themselves . I want not just additional SEND place , but continue support for child already attend specialist provision . far , we need proper investment in home - to - school transport . child be leave without transport at the beginning of the academic year , deprive they of access to their education . what be the Government do to ensure not just that budget reflect need , but that they do so to address the problem immediately ? I recognise the long list of challenge the hon . Lady set out , which she know her constituent be face . child with special educational need and disability be be fail with poor outcome , and parent be struggle to get their child the support they need and deserve . this government ' s ambition be for all child and young people with special educational need or in alternative provision to get the right support to achieve and succeed in their education and as they move into adult life . we be move as fast as we can . it be a key part of our opportunity mission and we will continue to do so . I call the Chair of the Education Committee . the additional £ 1 billion in the Budget for SEND support be very welcome , but the Minister will know that local authority remain anxious about the forthcoming end to the statutory override of dedicated school grant deficit in March 2026 . what discussion be the Minister have with the Treasury and the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government on a plan to prevent the end of the statutory override from become a cliff - edge financial calamity for local authority and child with SEND ? as my hon . friend mention , high - need funding will increase by almost £ 1 billion in 2025 - 26 , compare with 2024 - 25 , bring total high - need funding to £ 11 . 9 billion . that funding will help local authority and school with the increase cost of support child and young people with SEND . we will continue to support local authority to meet those demand and reform our system , so we can create inclusive education for every child . I want to raise the issue of governance . there be too many mind control the system , which ultimately stymie local authority ’ ability to reform service in order to embed a culture of nurture and to ensure that the good interest of child be represent . while review the SEND system , will the Minister take a look at governance , and ensure that be there be one control mind , and it be that of the local authority ? my hon . friend will be aware of our plan to ensure that all school co - operate , within their local facility , with their local authority when it come to place - planning and admission , to ensure that we have a school system that serve the whole community and to ensure that all child , whether or not they have special educational need and disability , be properly serve and give the opportunity to thrive within that system . I apologise for my premature bob at the beginning of this question session , Mr Speaker . my constituent have be wait for more than a year for Conservative - run Lancashire county council to issue her 15 - year - old son ' s EHCP . in that time he have attempt suicide and have stop eat , and my constituent ' s health be suffer as a result of the stress . how can the Minister reassure my constituent that the additional £ 1 billion for SEND provision will speed up the issuing of ehcp so that student with special need receive the support that they need ? I be sorry to hear about the experience of my hon . friend ' s constituent , and she be right to raise it today . we know that far too many family and child be wait far too long to receive the support that they need , and we be determined to reform the system , because child ' s need should be recognise at the early possible stage . they should not be wait for ehcp in order to receive that support within our education system . that be the change that we want to see , but we recognise the demand on ehcp and the process , and we recognise that we need to improve . that be happen throughout Lancashire , include Chorley . the 2014 reform put SEN right at the heart of the special educational need system , but the then Government do only half the job , fail to honour the resource that they have promise . ehcp take too long to access , and child be often send out of borough to receive specialist education , which be more expensive . how will the Government provide more SEN provision in our mainstream school in town such as mine ? my hon . friend be right to raise the priority of ensure that child with special educational need and disability be accommodate in mainstream school with their friend whenever possible . we be ensure that training be available from the early possible stage so that those in the workforce can teach child with SEND , and that educational psychology service be there to help school to make any change that be necessary . we want to work in partnership with the sector to secure the good outcome for every child . Childcare Accessibility what step she be take to make childcare more accessible . ensure that parent have access to affordable and high - quality childcare be a priority for this Government . we will focus on great opportunity for every family to access early education , and on great opportunity for child to thrive and develop . as an initial step , we have announce the bidding round for the first 300 school - base nursery from next September . many early year provider struggle to meet the need of child with SEND . lack of fund , lack of training and lack of specialist staff often mean that those that do provide a good or excellent service quickly become over - subscribed . what step be the Department take to reassure parent and carer of child with SEND that those child will have access to the childcare or early year provision in their area that meet their need ? we be help member of the workforce to develop the skill and confidence that will enable they to work effectively with child with SEND , and review early year fund arrangement to ensure that they meet the need of those child . I should be happy to meet my hon . friend or visit her constituency to understand the issue that her local provider be face . Martin Lewis have long campaign for change in childcare , in particular because the way in which it be set up can damage single parent . there be an obvious cliff edge . the last Government propose a consultation on threshold for household be take as one , but this Government seem to have scrap that in the Budget . will Ministers be speak to the Treasury to decide how they will overcome this cliff edge that affect so many single parent ? I thank the hon . member for his question . we have a child - centre Government , and early year be a priority for the Secretary of State . we will focus on reform the childcare system to ensure that it be fit for purpose for the future and of high quality for all young people . we be take the sector ' s concern seriously , and we want to ensure there be a sustainable system go forward . SEND system : Effectiveness what recent assessment she have make of the effectiveness of the system for support child with special educational need and disability . what recent assessment she have make of the effectiveness of the system for support child with special educational need and disability . last month , the National Audit Office confirm what many family already know : the SEND system that we inherit from the Conservatives be break . indeed , the number of hon . member raise concern on behalf of their constituent show the scale of the challenge that we have inherit . we be work as quickly as we can to make the change that family need . it be huge , complex reform , but we be determined to fix the system . far too many people in my constituency of Hyndburn find the current EHCP process to be adversarial and one that fail to assess their child ' s need adequately . as the Government work to reform the system , how can we be sure that the voice of parent and child will remain at the heart of any policy change ? I recognise what my hon . friend be say . we engage with child , young people , parent and carer in the development of policy , include through our participation contract . next week I will meet our National Young People ' s Group , which be a diverse group of young people from across England who have special educational need and disability . they share their view and experience with we , and I be look forward to it . at the recent SEND surgery that I organise with SEND Socials Birmingham , one message come through time and again : different public body be not work together as the Children and Families Act 2014 intend , and this be contribute to long delay and distress . will the Minister agree to receive representation from young people and family in south Birmingham , so that their negative experience can at least contribute to the important work of reform the SEND system ? absolutely . we be commit to work with family to deliver an improved SEND system that work for all . we ensure that family have access to free and impartial information , advice and support to enable they to participate as fully as possible in the decision that affect they , but I would welcome suggestion from my hon . friend and parent in south Birmingham on how to improve the system . the Minister have just agree that there be a crisis of capacity for SEND provision in the state sector , yet the Government ' s deeply misguided vat policy on school fee be exaggerate this crisis and the crisis of EHCP assessment . surely the right thing to do be grant a vat exemption on SEND child to ease the crisis . we be committed to ensure that pupil whose need necessitate a place at private school be not impact by this policy . where a pupil ' s place in private school be fund by a local authority in England , Scotland and Wales because the pupil ' s need can not be meet in the state sector , the local authority will be able to reclaim the vat it be charge on fee . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . Hertfordshire currently receive the third low SEND funding in the country , but since 2015 the number of child in the county with educational , health and care plan have grow by a staggering 223 % . do the Minister agree that funding should reflect the current need ? high - need funding will increase by almost £ 1 billion in 2025 - 26 compare with 2024 - 25 , bring the total high - need funding to £ 11 . 9 billion . the funding will help local authority and school with the increase cost of support child and young people with special educational need . on the distribution of funding , the national funding formula will be announce later in November . skill and Employment what step she be take to help ensure that young people have the necessary skill to gain employment . this Government be about fix the foundation . to help do this , we have launch an independent curriculum and assessment review , which aim to enable all young people to access rigorous and high - value qualification and training . we will also introduce a youth guarantee , which will help 18 to 21 - year - old to access education , training and apprenticeship opportunity , and to receive employment support . the London Design and Engineering university technical college in my constituency cater for 14 to 19 - year - old and offer at secondary level the kind of training often only find at further education level . do the Minister agree that we need to create more opportunity at secondary level for skill - base training to ensure that it be embed and last , post 16 , into the workplace and that it improve employability skill as well ? I appreciate my hon . friend ' s thoughtful question . this government absolutely value university technical college for help young people to develop technical skill and , with employer support , to move into technical career . the independent curriculum and assessment review aim to broaden the curriculum , ensure that young people do not miss out on vocational subject and that they leave education ready for employment . Eastbourne , as the sunny town in the UK , be on a mission to be a solar energy superpower . at the heart of that be East Sussex college ' s green training hub , which be support student , young and mature , to move into that sector . will the Minister join I in celebrate the hub ' s second birthday , and will she come down to Eastbourne to visit the hub and its principal , Rebecca Conroy , and to soak up some Eastbourne sun ? the sun be obviously shine on Eastbourne , even though may not be shine everywhere else at the moment because of the weather . a visit to Eastbourne to celebrate the hub sound delightful , but this fall to my noble friend , Baroness Smith of Malvern , so I will pass on these comment to she . I call the shadow Minister , Neil o ' Brien . the sun always shine on Chorley , Mr Speaker . one thing that help young people to gain skill be involvement in the cadet , but the Department recently confirm a decision to cancel support payment to combined cadet force in state school . that payment be something that people involve in the cadet and teacher really value . what assessment be make beforehand of the impact that this cut would have ? will the Secretary of State reconsider it ? we respect all our young people who be in the cadet or any other armed force area . the hon . Gentleman raise this point , but after 14 year of the previous Government ' s failure and the £ 22 billion black hole , there be difficult choice to be make . we be absolutely committed to child and young people and to do the good we can do by they . young Carers : School Absence what step her Department be take to help tackle persistent school absence among young carer . the Government be commit to break down barrier to opportunity for all young people , include young carer who provide a critical role in care for their love one . we now collect specific absence datum for young carer through the school census , and our statutory attendance guidance seek to ensure that they receive holistic support to overcome barrier to attendance . one thing that might be drive absence from school for young carer be long - term mental health condition . the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health say that as many as one in five young carer could be suffer from long - term mental health condition . can the Minister explain what measure the Department be take to ensure that sufficient help be in place for people suffer from those condition ? we want to ensure that we support young carer in school , as well as other child who may be suffer from mental health condition . this Government be entirely commit to support young people with mental health condition , and we be make sure that there will be mental health support in every school up and down the country . for young carer who may be experience increase mental health condition , we be expand the attendance mentor programme to ensure that around an extra 10 , 800 young carer be support , especially in the area of mental health . [ Official Report , 21 November 2024 ; Vol . 757 , c . 3WC . ] ( Correction ) Curriculum and Assessment Review what recent progress the independent curriculum and assessment review have make . what progress the independent curriculum and assessment review have make . our independent curriculum and assessment review be launch in July . it will support our ambition for high and rise standard for all , and for a broad curriculum with an excellent foundation in the core subject . the review have launch its call for evidence , and there be still time to participate . the review will publish its interim report in early 2025 , with final recommendation in autumn 2025 . research from the University of Cambridge show that financial habit be often set by the age of seven , yet financial education for young people be still a postcode lottery . it be not part of the primary curriculum , and many teacher at secondary level , where it be part of the curriculum , lack resource and confidence in teach it . can the Secretary of State confirm whether such foundational life skill , which all young people need in order to thrive , will be consider at all key stage in the curriculum and assessment review ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for highlight this important area , which have be raise by many member in the past . I be sure the review will carefully consider what financial education young people need to meet that aim , and it will , of course , consider what support we need to provide to enable teacher to teach the reform curriculum successfully . I think parent will be quite alarmed by the answer give to my hon . friend the Member for Central Suffolk and North Ipswich ( Patrick Spencer ) , as it have very little focus on academic attainment . the Education Secretary appoint Becky Francis , who attack the Blair Government for their obsession with academic achievement . the National Education Union deny that school accountability should be at the heart of our assessment system , which be wrong , so will the Secretary of State take this opportunity to rule out scrap sat in year 6 ? I rather fear that the hon . Gentleman and his party have learn nothing from the massive defeat inflict upon they by voter in July . I can assure this House that the review will be evidence - base and will not seek to fix thing that be not break . however , I remind the hon . Gentleman that his record be a SEND system in crisis , one in five child persistently absent from school — they can not learn if they be not there — fall standard , a persistent disadvantage gap , and over half of disadvantaged pupil in state primary school not leave with the require standard in English and math . he might be proud of that record , but I be not . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . last week ' s Budget protect key education priority , put education back at the forefront of national life and break down barrier to opportunity for every child at every stage . the Department for Education ' s settlement mean that we can begin to deliver on this Government ' s mission : roll out fund childcare , rebuild and maintain our school and college estate , reform the SEND system , invest in child ' s social care , and ensure that young people have the skill that they need to seize opportunity . additionally , the £ 2 . 3 billion increase in core school funding , together with July ' s fully fund 5 . 5 % teacher pay award , far support our commitment to recruit 6 , 500 new teacher . this government will fix the foundation to deliver change , and there be no well place to start than education . West Dorset have see a 134 % increase in the number of child require SEN support in the last six year . as of the late datum , more than 275 child be wait for education , care and health plan assessment , with the average waiting time well in excess of the 20 - week statutory limit . will the Minister outline what specific measure the Department be implement to ensure that the much - need £ 1 billion investment announce in the Budget be use to bring down waiting time for ehcp in place such as West Dorset ? the hon . Gentleman be right to raise his concern , as so many have this afternoon , about the state of the system for support child with SEND . it be not work , and we know it need reform , but commit an extra £ 1 billion into the system at this crucial time be an important first step . we face choice on how to take this system forward , and how to make it less adversarial and more focused on well life chance for our child . one of the first step I take be to refocus the work of the Department for Education on child with SEND . school be close across inner London , and across London more widely , for various reason , leave premise empty or at risk of be sell off . what strategic oversight be the Secretary of State take to ensure that we get the good value for our child from these property ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that important issue , about which there be a lack of thinking by the previous Government on how we do this properly and seriously . challenge come with demographic change , but there be opportunity too . that be why we have announce more primary - base nursery in empty classroom , and we can think about do more around additional support and provision for child with special educational need and disability , in particular . I call the shadow Secretary of State . there have be a lot of discussion about our record in government . under the Conservatives , England climb international educational league table , but what happen to labour - run Wales ? it fall . under the Conservatives , youth unemployment go down and school standard improve — that be the record of the Conservative Government , which we be proud to defend . do the Secretary of State agree that academisation be one of the drive force behind that very good school improvement ? I be sorry to disappoint the right hon . Lady , but we will be talk about the Conservatives ' 14 year of failure for a very long time indeed . rise — child across our country be fail by her party time and again , include the child with SEND we have hear about this afternoon — order . Mr O ' Brien , please , enough be enough . we be focus on drive up standard for our child , the length and breadth of our country , by provide more teacher and improve school budget , and by ensure our child do not go to school in crumble building , unlike the conservative party , which make sure that our child go to school in building that be literally prop up . the problem that we have be that while we be learn the lesson of our defeat , the Government be fail to learn from our brilliant record on school standard . result improve , more school be " good " or " outstanding " , but now the party in government be try to undermine one part of the basis for that success . why be the Secretary of State scrap the academy conversion support grant when it be such a push behind improve school standard ? the conservative party have learn absolutely nothing and parent will not buy it . we be face with some very tough choice because of the £ 22 billion hole in the public finance , as the right hon . Lady , the former Chief Secretary to the Treasury , know all too well — [ interruption . ] we be fix the foundation and rebuild our school . order . be we go to work together ? it would be much easy for all of you , I can assure you . news of the impact of last week ' s Budget on school be greet with relief in Bury North . the Derby high school be a top - perform school , but its main building date back to 1959 and face critical issue . it be due for renewal under Labour ' s Building Schools for the Future programme but be ignore during the 14 year of the Tories . will the Minister meet I and the school ' s leadership team to discuss the urgent need for refurbishment fund ? order . these be topical question . I have to get everybody in who have not get in before . you have get in once already , so don ' t be greedy . we be committed to improve school building , where we want our child to achieve and thrive , but that will not be a quick fix . bury council have be award £ 1 . 8 million for the financial year to improve its school building , include the Derby high school . last week , this Government increase next year ' s capital allocation for England to £ 2 . 1 billion , some £ 300 million more than last year . I will , of course , be happy to meet with my hon . friend — order . obviously , set - up question have very long answer . we should be able to have short question and answer . I note the Minister ' s answer to the hon . member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , but will she clarify whether the £ 1 billion announce in the Budget last week for SEND go to new expenditure ? what will the Government do about the statutory override that be prevent local authority from go bust , with a total of nearly £ 4 billion owe ? we expect the additional funding to go directly to provide provision for child and young people . we will set out wide plan about the issue the hon . Gentleman raise in due course . what do the extra funding outline for child in the Budget mean for the grow number of foster child and child who need foster care ? Foster carer provide some of the good care for child who be look after . some £ 4 million of new funding have be allocate for regional foster recruitment hub , bring the total amount of funding to £ 15 million . I be pleased to say that these hub will generate hundred of new foster placement . the teacher and staff at Hornsea school and language college do a fantastic job for their 1 , 300 pupil , include 90 with SEND , but they do so in crumble building with leak roof . with the news in last week ' s Budget that this Government will continue the Conservative ' s school rebuilding programme , will the Secretary of State prioritise Hornsea school ? I note the hon . member ' s point on that specific college . as he will know , the Chancellor commit £ 1 . 4 billion at the Budget to drive the delivery of the current school rebuilding programme for next year . over the come week and month , we will work with trust and local authority to identify which school will be in scope . [ Official Report , 21 November 2024 ; Vol . 757 , c . 3WC . ] ( Correction ) my constituency have some brilliant further education college and apprenticeship scheme , but some student struggle , retake GCSE and functional skill math and English over and over again . will the Minister consider how the process could be do well , so that those student do not end up feel like a failure as they retake and retake ? the Department consider level 2 English and math to be essential , so student without those qualification be require to continue study to achieve they . the independent curriculum and assessment review be look at support for student without level 2 in English and Maths at the age of 16 , and further information will follow shortly . when I visit nursery in my constituency of Lewes , many raise serious concern about special educational need and disability provision in the early year . will Ministers commit to an urgent review of SEND in early year to take account of funding shortfall and staffing challenge , and to address family ' concern about insufficient place due to grow demand ? ensure that there be the right level of provision for and identification of SEND in the early year be an essential part of our review of the early year system and of the reform that be require . in the Budget , an extra £ 300 million be announce for further education . I know that the Secretary of State be a big fan of Burnley , so will she come back to Burnley with I to meet representative of Burnley college and talk with they about their brilliant work and the expansion of the campus ? it be a pleasure to visit my hon . friend ahead of the election — and what a brilliant champion he be for Burnley and his constituent . I would be very happy to visit again . as part of set out our commitment to further education , at the Budget we put in place an additional £ 300 million , alongside £ 300 million of capital funding for our college . rise — I call Tim Shannon — I mean , Farron . [ Laughter . ] the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) and I be indeed never see in the same place together . [ laughter . ] stramongate nursery school in Kendal face closure follow an ofsted inspection . if it have be a regular school , it would have have help to remain open under special measure , but as it be , the nursery have to close . will the Secretary of State pay attention to this particular issue to ensure that the child and parent be protect , and that childcare can continue ? I will look carefully at the case and ensure that the hon . Gentleman have a meeting with the relevant Minister to discuss it far . many town and village across my constituency have experience rapid population growth in recent year , but education opportunity have not keep pace , so will the Minister meet I to discuss the specific investment need to expand school place for my constituency ' s grow population ? I be very happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss the matter . I call Stuart Andrew . hear , hear ! thank you , Mr Speaker . it have be a while since I have speak ! those at Buckton Fields school in my constituency be delighted when they have a newly construct building , but that delight be sadly short - live , as there be defect . as a consequence , with interim arrangement , the school ' s roll have go up and down , and now it have a £ 45 , 000 shortfall in its budget . will the Minister meet I and representative from the school to discuss the issue ? I welcome the right hon . Gentleman back to his place and would be more than happy to meet he to discuss the challenge in his constituency . the UK ' s social mobility commissioner have highlight the " geography of disadvantage " be experience by young people in northern post - industrial community like those in Ossett and Denby Dale . do the Secretary of State agree with the commissioner that decisive and bold Government action to improve educational attainment and opportunity be require for these child ? I do agree , and I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise the point . I be lead the work across Government on break down the barrier to opportunity in order to break the unfair link between background and success . we know that tackle child poverty be a crucial part of that process , and it be essential that we get the recommendation of the child poverty taskforce to ensure that poverty do not hold back our child ' s life chance . Helen Blythe from Stamford have campaign courageously for improvement to allergy safety since her son Benedict die follow a severe allergic reaction at school in 2021 . will the Minister commit to meet I to discuss introduce a mandatory requirement for all school to have a specific allergy and anaphylaxis plan , and for every school to have adrenaline auto - injector ? I meet Helen Blythe last week , and I will happily meet the hon . member to take forward her concern . I thank the Minister for work with Treasury colleague to secure important additional funding to rebuild school in last week ' s Budget . will he meet I to discuss the serious repair issue face St Nicolas and St Mary primary school in my constituency , which be hamper child ' s ability to thrive ? we be proud of the investment that we be make in school building . I would be delighted not only to meet my hon . friend but to visit his constituency . will the Secretary of State acknowledge , as the right hon . Baroness Smith of Basildon have in the other place , that concern around freedom of speech and academic freedom in our university be not a botched culture war but a serious matter that need to be address properly ? as I say to the right hon . Gentleman during the last Education question , I believe in the vital importance of freedom of speech and freedom of expression within our university campus . university be a place where young people should be expose to view that they might find difficult or challenging ; however , it be important that any legislation in this area be workable . the current national guideline on school transport mean that child who live less than 3 mile from school do not get any support in Government funding . in my constituency , that mean that some of the most deprived kid either have to walk an hour and a half a day to and from school , or their already struggle family have to find the money for their transport . will the Minister meet I to talk about this and see whether the 3 - mile limit can be change ? we be commit to remove barrier to opportunity for every child . no child should struggle to access education because of a lack of transport . we be keen to understand how well the transport system be work for child access schooling , and I will happily meet my hon . friend to discuss it far . the majority of teacher have have no more than half a day ' s training on autism . if the Government be as commit as they say they be to ensure that most child with special educational need and disability receive a mainstream education , what will they do to ensure that teacher training meet child ' s need ? the hon . Lady be right to identify that this be an area where we must do more , and do it well . I hear , as she doubtless do , from teacher and support staff that they want additional training and support in this crucial area , and we will ensure that it be part of our SEND reform . we know that child with special educational need and disability be more likely to live in poverty , so how will my right hon . friend ensure that child with special and complex need be incorporate into the child poverty strategy ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for the work that she lead on behalf of this House on the Education Committee . our child poverty taskforce be absolutely focused on this area . we will listen to and engage directly with family across the UK , include those who have child with SEND . as she identify , child poverty blight the life chance of far too many , and that must change . Carers Trust estimate that two child in every classroom across the UK be young carer , yet 72 % of school say that they have no young carer on their roll . what step be the Department take to address that ? we have recently require all school to provide that datum , so that we can find out where the young carer be and ensure that they gain the support that they need . through the child ' s framework , they can have an assessment alongside their parent . I be happy to speak far on this matter . I welcome the Budget last week , in which the Chancellor confirm the recruitment of 6 , 500 teacher . will the Secretary of State please confirm how those extra teacher , include specialist teacher , will be recruit , and how issue such as workload , working condition and support for the training and development of new and exist teacher and school support staff will be address ? we know that have a well - support , highly qualified teacher at the front of the class make the single big difference to child ' s life chance , but it be also crucial that we tackle issue around workload and pay . that be why I be delighted that we be able to bring in a fully fund 5 . 5 % pay award for our teacher , to recognise their brilliant hard work on behalf of our child , our family and our country . budget : implication for Farming Communities ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs if he will make a statement on the implication of the Budget for farming community . I welcome the right hon . gentleman to his place — he will make an excellent Chair of the Select Committee on Environment , Food and Rural Affairs — and thank he for the opportunity to talk about this important issue . as the Minister for Food Security , I can assure the House that food security be national security . the Government ' s commitment to support farmer and rural community be unwavering . we have commit £ 5 billion in the agricultural budget over the next two year — the big ever budget for sustainable food production and nature recovery in our country ' s history . we be also release £ 60 million to support farmer whose farm have be devastate by severe flooding , and invest £ 208 million to protect the nation from potential disease outbreak that threaten our farming industry , food security and human health . however , as we be all only too aware , the Conservatives leave behind a £ 22 billion black hole in our nation ' s finance — [ interruption . ] yes , you do . and this Government have have to take tough decision on tax , welfare and spending to fix the foundation and deliver change , include a series of decision on tax to protect the payslip of work people . that be possible only by make change to other taxis , such as agricultural property relief , which be previously available to all agricultural property at a rate of 100 % . currently , small farm can find themselves face the same level of tax bill as much large farm , despite have a much small asset . twenty per cent of agricultural property relief be claim by the top 2 % ; 40 % be claim by the top 7 % . that be not fair , it be not sustainable , and sadly , it have be use in some case by wealthy landowner to avoid inheritance tax . that be why the Government have announce plan to reform agricultural property relief . the Secretary of State meet National Farmers Union president Tom Bradshaw this morning . we absolutely understand — [ interruption . ] order . Dr Mullan , I hear you before , and I be certainly not put up with it this time . if you want to leave , do so now , because I want to be able to hear other . do we understand each other ? indicate assent . thank you . carry on , Minister . the Secretary of State meet Tom Bradshaw this morning . we completely understand farmer ' anxiety about the change , but rural community need a well nhs , affordable housing and public transport , and we can provide that if we make the system fair . the reform to agricultural property relief mean that farmer can access 100 % relief for the first £ 1 million and 50 % relief thereafter — an effective 20 % tax rate . that mean that an individual can pass up to £ 2 million , and a couple up to £ 3 million between they , to a direct descendant , inheritance tax - free . currently , 73 % of agricultural property relief claim — order . I do not know whether you be aware , Minister , but you only have three minute . how long will you be now ? be you come to the end at this minute ? in 20 second . marvellous . come on , then ! seventy - three per cent of agricultural property relief claim be for less than £ 1 million . the vast majority of farmer will not be affect . they will be able to pass the family farm down to their child just as previous generation have always do . it be a fair and balanced approach that protect family farm while also fix the public service that those same family rely on . it be part of a Budget that will restore economic stability and begin a decade of national renewal . I call the Chair of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee . I remind the House of my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . thank you , Mr Speaker , for allow this urgent question . I also thank the Minister for his statement , but I fear that it illustrate rather well some of the lack of understanding that have bring we to this point . More than any other industry , farming relie on stability and long - term planning . that be why many people in the industry rely on undertaking give by the Secretary of State when in opposition that the Labour party in government would not change inheritance tax relief for farming . every farming business be capital - rich but revenue - poor . those business also trade in a market that have be more heavily influence by government intervention than any other . agricultural property relief be not a loophole ; it have be a deliberate policy of successive government for the past 40 year , design to avoid the sale and break - up of family farm . be that still a goal to which this government adhere ? as the NFU put it , the Government have seemingly fail to grasp " that family farm be not just small farm , and that just because a farm be a valuable asset it doesn ' t mean those who work it be wealthy . " as the Minister will be aware , some of the figure he have just give the House have be vigorously challenge over the past few day , particularly the assertion that only one in four british farm will be affect . will the Minister and his Treasury colleague publish the datum behind those figure ? in particular , do the figure that 73 % of farm will not be affect rely on the inclusion of very small holding ? these change will have a ripple effect across the whole rural community . will the Government publish their impact assessment for other rural business ? can the Minister also explain why the Treasury have remove the ringfence around farm support to be spend in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland ? that ringfence be introduce after the Bew review . if it need a review to introduce it , how can it just be abolish now out of the blue ? the Prime Minister have say in the past , and the Minister have repeat today , that food security be national security . can the Minister point to one measure in this budget that make achieve that aim easy , rather than hard ? I thank the right hon . member for his question , which be serious and important , as one would expect . let I start by point out that until 1992 , this relief do not exist . the system have exist before and people have operate differently , although I accept it have be different for the past 30 year . turn to the figure , I encourage people to reach for the detail — to look at the actual figure . the only thing we can go on be the claim , and the figure come from the Treasury on claim for the last year available absolutely reflect that 73 % figure . the right hon . Gentleman raise an important point about the ringfence ; that point be under discussion , but I have make assurance that the devolve administration will be closely inform about , and involve in , what happen . these be important point , and they should be treat seriously . I do not really care for the high - profile voice that we have get attack a Labour Government , but I do care about the family farm in my constituency . I know that the Minister care for those farm as well , as do the Prime Minister . I welcome the figure we have be give . however , those figure do need to be translate to our family farmer ; they need to see what it be like on the ground . I would welcome a meeting with NFU Cymru and the Minister to discuss what thing be go to look like for farmer , especially in Gower and the rest of Wales , where there be a completely different landscape . I thank my hon . friend for her contribution . can I say how much I enjoy visit Wales , with the Welsh Minister , very early in my tenure ? it be an important sign from this government that we take farming seriously across the entire United Kingdom . I share my hon . friend ' s very strong point about the importance of the family farm . what we be do here be protect the family farm . I have visit right around the country over the past five year , and on almost every visit , people have tell I that they be concerned about people come from outside — they often say " up London " or " down London " — with a lot of money and buy up local farmland over the head of local people , not because they care about farming but to use that farmland for tax evasion purpose . this policy can be helpful to family farm and protect they against — [ interruption . ] the hon . gentleman on the Opposition Front Bench say from a sedentary position that it will not , but it be people from his area who have be tell I about these problem . they repeat they constantly when we be in opposition , and here be a Labour Government do something about it . I call the shadow Minister . Mr Speaker , " lose a farm be not like lose any other business — it can ' t come back . " those be not my word , but the word of our Prime Minister at the National Farmers Union conference just last year . over the weekend , we have hear gut - wrench story from farmer up and down the nation who feel completely and utterly betray by the measure in this Budget . I ask the Minister : why do the Secretary of State continue to say that he be proud of his family farm tax ? do the Minister realise that the vast majority of farming family be not multimillionaire ? Most be cash poor and many be struggle to break even . how do the Secretary of State expect farmer , in his word , to do — [ interruption . ] order . can I just say to the hon . member for East Thanet ( Ms Billington ) that I do not need any chuntering ? do we understand ? how do the Secretary of State expect farmer to do more with less ? why be he happy to hand our next generation of farmer an impossible tax bill ? next , the Government claim that small family farmer will be protect , yet the Country Land and Business Association and the NFU have today dispute the Government ' s figure . will the Minister commit to release a full assessment of his policy , include an impact on national food security ? while the change to inheritance tax relief have be gain the national headline , there be many other negative impact on farming business from the Budget . increase national insurance contribution , couple with a low national threshold ; an accelerated reduction in de - link payment rate ; high taxis on double - cab pick - up vehicle ; new taxis on fertiliser — I could go on , but this all beg the question : do the right hon . member for Streatham and Croydon North ( Steve Reed ) actually know anything about farming at all ? more importantly , after the Secretary of State look british farmer in the eye and specifically promise they that there would be no change to agricultural property relief , how on earth can farmer believe a single word that his Minister be about to say ? I be very grateful to the hon . gentleman for promote I to Secretary of State — I hope he have similar success in the come hour . the hon . Gentleman raise a whole series of question . he ask again , as other have , about other element in the Budget . the figure be absolutely there ; they be publish by the Treasury and be there for all to read . they be the fact on the estate that have make claim on agricultural property relief in the last year available . [ interruption . ] they be there for everyone to see . it be not difficult , it be not complicated — they be there . something that perhaps have not be say , but which should be , be that there be many call to reflect the change way in which farming operate by include environmental land management scheme within the scope of agricultural property relief . I hear nothing from Opposition Front Benchers about that . do they not understand the way in which british farming be change ? many farmer in my constituency of Hastings and Rye be feel the impact of 14 year of conservative failure . in particular , they have face many challenge with flooding . can the Minister tell I what step we have take in the Budget to protect small family farm and how we will continue to support farmer face flooding ? I be grateful to my hon . friend because she make some important point . ahead of the Budget , there be lot of prediction about what would happen . of course , what happen be that this Government have protect the farming budget — indeed , raise it — and we be absolutely committed to pay out to farmer the £ 60 million that they deserve for flooding . that be £ 60 million , of course , that be not really budget for by the Conservatives , as part of their £ 22 billion black hole . the difference between we and they be that we be take a responsible approach , which mean that farmer can look forward to a stable future , as oppose to the chaos of the last decade . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . farmer across the United Kingdom be cope with the linger legacy of betrayal — betrayal from the trade deal that happen under the last government , which throw they under a bus ; and betrayal from the transition from the old payment scheme to the new one , which see many of they go bust or force into make business decision that they would never , ever have choose . that legacy of betrayal be one that hang heavy , and it be why farmer in my constituency and elsewhere feel so utterly disappoint by this Government ' s Budget last week . let we look first at the agricultural property relief change . there be 1 , 500 farm in Cumbria and 440 in my constituency affect by this . have the Minister do an investigation into the number of farmer who be live on less than the minimum wage each year in term of income , but who have a property that will be affect by these change , particularly give the 41 % decrease in farm income under the Conservative Government over the last five year ? will he also assess the impact on tenant farmer ? some 50 % of my farmer be tenant and will be affect by the disruption that this change will create . would it not be wise for he to implement the Rock review of tenant protection before introduce something like this ? will he also look again at the £ 2 . 4 billion budget and increase it by £ 1 billion , just as the liberal Democrats suggest ? if we do not feed ourselves , we be a fail country . the hon . Gentleman be a well - inform , thoughtful person , and I listen closely to what he have to say on these issue , but I do wonder sometimes about the Liberal Democrats ’ approach to economic , because that £ 1 billion would have to come from somewhere . I be afraid that the difference between Labour and the Opposition side of the House be that we be determined to get the public finance in order , because it be upon that basis that future prosperity in the farming sector will come . in term of farm income , the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that many farm be very marginal . we know that , and it be complicated , but I would say to everyone in this House that the entire inheritance tax system be complicated ; I must say I have read a lot over the weekend that be perhaps a little short on accuracy . he be also right about tenant farmer , and we be in close conversation with the Tenant Farmers Association about how the change can perhaps be use to good effect , because another element which have not be raise so far , interestingly , by the conservative party be the generational challenge we face in farming . I will not be tell farmer how to run their life , but it be worth reflect on the fact that sometimes it be difficult to make that transition and we need to get more young people into farming . I put on record that I be an officer of the all - party parliamentary group on farming . I also put on record my thank to farmer who , through a torrid decade , have produce food and sustenance for we in this country . we should all recognise that . farmer will rightly be anxious after the experience they have have in the past few year . do my hon . friend the Minister agree that that anxiety will only be heighten by the scaremongering from some member of this House , and will he commit to work with hon . member , the National Farmers Union and farmer to ensure that the positive element around food security in this Budget be deliver in the year to come ? my hon . friend and near neighbour be right to pay tribute to our food producer . one thing we know for sure be that we be go to need food into the future , and farmer be essential to the future of this nation and our economy . that be why we will treat they with the utmost respect and seriousness and have a serious debate about how we transform farming . again , while this have not be pick up much in the debate so far , the effect of this Budget be to speed up still far that transition to an environmentally friendly , nature - friendly way of farming , alongside produce the food that our country need . that be a really important transition — I pay tribute to the current Opposition , who start that process in government , but I have be unwavere in my support for it for a number of year and I be determined to see it through to a proper conclusion . my hon . friend be also right that we will work with everyone involve to get good , sensible outcome , because that be what this Government be about . the National Farmers Union tweet : " in 2023 Prime Minister Keir Starmer look farmer in the eye and say he know what lose a farm mean . farmer believe he . after today ' s budget they don ' t believe he any more . " what be the Prime Minister go to do practically to resolve that ? when we come to power a few month ago , the thing I be ask most strongly to do be to provide stability for the future . through a series of intervention over the past few month , I have try to indicate that that be exactly what we will do , whether through the environmental land management scheme or any other issue . the Government face a huge challenge at this Budget — we all know that . decision have to be make . however , I be absolutely convinced that farmer and all those other people who live in rural area want and need exactly the same decent health service , housing and transport as other do . they will be able to carry on farming , as they have do , but the difference be that that will be in a stable economic system , which mean they will not suffer in the way they have over the last decade . many farm in my constituency be under water for month after the flood last year . what be the Minister do to support those farm as they recover from last year ' s horrific storm ? extreme weather event have clearly become a grow challenge for we all , which be part of the reason that we be so determined to make the transition to a more environmentally friendly form of farming . last year , a scheme be in place to help farmer . the then Government increase it ; as I say , I be not sure that they exactly identify where the money be come from , but we have identify the money . we have honour it and will be pay the £ 60 million out to farmer in the next couple of week . the Minister imply early that farmer in my constituency of Bridlington and the Wolds support this measure . I can categorically tell he that they do not ; they be shatter by this announcement . the impact on my community will be devastating . I ask the Minister today to do the right thing and withdraw these plan . I look forward to many more such exchange over the Dispatch Box with the hon . Gentleman . what I say early be that on my many visit around the country , people consistently tell I that they be concerned about how the system be be abuse and how people be come in and buy up land over their head . that be what I say , and that be what I stand by . as for these measure , I be afraid that this be a Budget that stand in its entirety — and the whole country need stability , so it will stand . a few month ago , I visit my constituent Andrew and Ada , who farm in a remote north - east corner of Cumbria . sadly , after 14 year under conservative Governments , they be largely get by on Ada ' s pension . will the Minister set out what support will be available to farmer such as my constituent , follow last week ' s Budget ? my hon . friend be absolutely right ; many people in this country , and many farmer in particular , be struggle to get by . that be why it be very important that in this Budget we maintain the budget for the support scheme that people be get use to ; it be interesting to note that they be now be subscribe to in much high number . that support will be available to help people to make the transition and to go on supply food for this country , which be so important . it have now be more than 10 year since devastating flood wreck the Somerset level and moor , cause untold damage . at the time , affected community be tell that money be no object when it come to protect the area , but now , deep in the Budget document , there be a hint that the farming and flood defence budget might be cut . can the Minister explain to my farmer in Glastonbury and Somerton , who be terrify of more flooding devastation this winter , how the Government aim to protect they ? I remember those awful time very well . " money be no object " be not something that be say by my party , I can tell she ; it be say by the now opposition , and perhaps it be not exactly the right way to put it . extreme weather event be a challenge for all of we across the country . my colleague and I will work with everyone to find the good way to resolve they , but let we not for one moment imagine that this be a simple issue to solve . the flooding challenge be very real and we be work on they . I look forward to further discussion with the hon . Lady . the Minister know lot of farmer in my constituency — he be a near neighbour of mine — and farmer be grateful for his engagement with they . he know that farmer ’ income fall year on year under the Conservative Government . will he outline what measure there be in this Budget to support farmer in North West Cambridgeshire and help the industry to get back on track ? I thank my hon . friend , who be another of my near neighbour . I do not use to have many near neighbour who be anywhere near as friendly as my new near neighbour , but Cambridgeshire have change . Cambridgeshire have change for a very clear reason : Cambridgeshire lose trust in the conservative party . I be determined to build trust across the entire country by maintain , over a prolonged period , the level of support necessary to allow people to farm successfully . my answer to my hon . friend be to look at the Budget , where we see an increase in the farming budget . we will look to maintain proper support into the future because , exactly as have be say , these be long - term business and long - term interest . the reason that they be long - term be that we be all go to need to eat . the Minister talk about the transition . I talk to my farmer in Bedale on Friday , and the only transition they can see be the transition from family farm to the state . do he realise that the farming industry be one of the least profitable sector in the country ? the return on capital employ be 0 . 5 % — that be the Government ' s own figure — and that be around a 20th of the typical profit margin in the UK . other than by some warped socialist ideology , how can he justify take away 40 year of profit for the typical farmer ? the hon . Gentleman may wish to remember that the agricultural transition be embark upon by the previous Government . it be a seven - year transition process , and we be just over halfway through . it be important that it be maintain in a stable and sensible way , and that be exactly what we be do . my answer to his question be that the challenge put to I be to maintain stability and not to tear up those scheme — to maintain they and make they work — and that be exactly what we be do . I meet farmer in my constituency in the day just ahead of the Budget . the big concern that they raise with I be not inheritance tax , but the transition from basic payment to elm scheme . I welcome the fact that the Budget not only maintain the agriculture budget , but grow it , which the Conservatives say they would not do . there be a concern that under the previous Government , despite have the budget , the system be write in such a way that the small farm could not easily access that funding . that be the single big threat to agricultural business in my area . I rather think the Conservatives be raise a smokescreen . will the Minister comment on what this Government will do to ensure that we can draw down that budget and ensure that local farm can take advantage ? it be strike that under the previous Government the agriculture budget be so substantially underspent . we be fix that and make it possible for people to access those scheme in the way that my hon . friend describe . it be interesting that the issue that come up most for he be basic payment . the issue that come up time after time on my visit be rural crime . that be the thing that have trouble so many people on farm and in the countryside . that be why it be so important that this Government be set up a proper integrate rural crime strategy . the Minister be see silver lining in the cloud hang over family farm and tenant farm in North Dorset , but I must confess that I fail to see they . I will give ask the Minister a simple yes or no question : yes or no , will he come to North Dorset to meet farmer in my constituency and explain these wonderful silver lining that he can see in the cloud but none of we on the Opposition Benches can see ? I love visit farm all over the country , and I be sure North Dorset will feature on my list at some point in the future . on this whole question of optimism , pessimism and the stress and strain in the countryside , my hon . friend the Member for Peterborough ( Andrew Pakes ) early warn about some of the thing that be be say . I urge people to be temperate in their language on these issue , because people be stress , anxious and worried . my task be to be calm , sensible and reassure to they , and to remind they that the vast majority will be able to pass on their farm just as they have before . just as press be to tackle those other real issue that they face . I do not underestimate the challenge that people face — of course it be difficult , and we know it be hard , but this Government will do everything we can to support people and to maintain their prosperity into the future . many of the farmer in my constituency have regularly raise concern with I over protect farm and our food system from animal disease . will the Minister please outline what step he be take to protect our food and farming system ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that important point , because among the many , many stressful thing for farmer be not just the weather of the past few year , but the disease threat . whether that threat be avian flu or bluetongue , we be committed to help . as part of that , in the Budget we commit more than £ 200 million to start the process of upgrade the facility at Weybridge , which be so very important for our future biosecurity . biosecurity be so important . I be stagger that the previous Government do not take swifter action to protect our border from african swine fever . we have toughen the rule on that . indicate assent . I see the hon . Gentleman nod . he be well verse in that ; he know . order . can I just say that brevity will be helpful ? I believe that everybody have a constituency interest , so I really want to get everyone in . if we can have short answer , that would be well . also , if the Minister look at I now and again , that would help I hear what be be say . I declare my interest as a farmer . a 75 - year - old farmer email I last week and say " we work long hour , usually alone . " he say that agriculture " have one of the high suicide rate of any industry . there be a great deal of talk these day about mental health and the need to alleviate stress in the workplace , yet " last week the Chancellor and the Secretary of State for agriculture " destroy everything I have ever work for . " how would the Minister answer that ? I would reassure that farmer . I be afraid that I do not think he be correct on that , and we be absolutely determined to ensure that he can hand on his farm , as other have do before , but let we ensure that he get the proper advice . I spend about 14 month in this place ask the former Government about water management , but I be always on a hiding to nothing . do my hon . friend recognise that the farmer in my constituency have a lot of expertise in water management and land management ? will he tell we how the Budget support farmer to bring that expertise to the fore and work in partnership with we to manage that land and water ? the good potato . I be grateful to my hon . friend . the scheme we have in place will help we to work with farmer on those issue — alongside , of course , the payment of the £ 60 million that the previous Government promise . the Minister have ask member to be temperate in their language , but there be deep anger in Scotland and in my constituency about these announcement , which the policy director for the NFU in Scotland have state will be devastating for farmer and crofter . will the Minister tell we how these announcement will increase food security and national security ? once again , I would say that it be by have a stable , sensible approach to farming support in the come year . clearly in Scotland this area be devolve , and it be for the Scottish Government to determine how they operate , but we be set the overall context , and in a stable economy in the future farmer will thrive . I be proud to represent proud North Yorkshire farmer in my constituency . will the Minister set out the step he will be take to ensure that small family farm will be protect by the Government ? additionally , will he endorse polyhalite , a fantastic crop nutrient fertiliser that be produce in only one place in the world : North Yorkshire ? I be grateful to my hon . friend . I will always look with keen interest at anything that can help we to make progress . in term of how we provide support and reassurance to those small farmer , that again be by make sure that we have a strong , stable economy . I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . be the Minister surprise by the reaction of the farming community ? I thank my fellow East Anglian MP for his contribution . be I surprised ? no , I be not entirely surprised , because people be very feed up and depressed , and they have be depress for a long time . I understand why it be difficult , but my job be to reassure and talk calmly to people , and that be what I shall continue to do . I be proud to represent many wonderful farming community . the young farmer I meet tell I that one of their big challenge be access rural mental health service . do my hon . friend welcome the record £ 22 billion extra go into the NHS , which will support access to rural mental health service ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the core message of the Budget be to get our finance stable and on track , which will allow we to invest in the public service that everyone need , and particularly those in rural area who be struggle with those issue . one of many email I have receive in the past week be from a farmer who have an archetypal family farm of 330 acre of mixed dairy and arable that they be plan on pass on to their son , even though they be struggle to make end meet . he be typical of farmer in my constituency , and he be very concerned . we have not see any investment in public transport or any of the other sweetener that the Minister mention early . can he explain what investment will go into rural transport , and why he have set the threshold for APR so low ? I think the hon . Lady should wait a bit long to see transport improvement — it have only be a week . the level have be set by the Treasury base on the figure that we have , to try to make sure it be fair . as I say , the vast majority will not pay anything . I hope she will find that reassuring . for 14 year , farmer in my constituency be let down and betray by the Conservative Government on thing like the Australia and New Zealand trade deal , and repeat broken promise that see thousand of farm business across the country close . do the Minister share my assessment that they be betray for those 14 year ? I do not think it be my assessment , but that of the voter , who make it very clear . Sam Wilson be a farmer in Ashfield . he be not a rich man ; in fact , he have not draw a wage in the past four year . will the Minister look I in the eye and tell I how many farmer he have speak to in the past few month who agree with this hare - brain scheme ? the last farmer I speak to over the weekend congratulate I on what we be do . there appear to be a lot of discussion about agricultural property relief on inheritance tax today . could the Minister confirm what percentage of the farm that claim more than £ 1 million of agricultural property relief in the past two year actually receive any agricultural income in the past five year ? I will have to go away and get the answer to that , and I will write to he . South Shropshire farmer be in touch with I over the weekend . they be up in arm about change to APR that the Labour party tell they would not happen . will the Minister reverse this rural vandalism and back british farmer ? we will back british farmer , by make sure that they have a stable system in which they can flourish . it be extraordinary that a small number of wealthy landowner have be use agricultural property relief to avoid inheritance tax . what be more extraordinary be how the Conservatives have defend tax avoidance in the way that they have . will my hon . friend confirm to the farmer in my constituency and across the country that the Budget will benefit family farmer through investment in public service as well as through the agriculture proposal ? my hon . friend make a powerful point . not only do those people seem to relish find way of creatively run their account , but some of they even take money to write column about it . I declare that my husband be in agriculture and farming , and therefore I have an indirect financial interest in the topic . this Government promise that they would not raise national insurance contribution , but they have . they promise that they would not reduce agricultural property relief , but they have . they have also add a fertiliser tax and a tax on pick - up truck as a way of compound the misery . have the Minister do an impact assessment on food security and food price follow the Budget , and will he publish it ? the hon . Lady will know that many thing impact food price . I gently suggest to the Conservatives that they might want to look more closely at food price rise over the past few year before give we any lecture on how to manage thing . I be confident about this , because I have look at the figure issue by the Treasury on the number of claim make in the past few year , and our figure stack up . I have previously raise in departmental question that the farmer I speak to are reluctant to sign up for ELMS due to the complexity , and because they do not want to get lock into a deal when a well one might be around the corner . that may account for the £ 200 million underspend last year . in the Budget , the Government commit to maintain the funding at the current level , include the underspend , but say that it would be review in 2025 - 26 to ensure it be " affordable " . do the Minister agree that that leave farmer even more in the dark about their future , at a time when they be struggle to get by ? the hon . Lady raise an important point . I suspect that in the month ahead it will come out that , actually , over the last few month there have be a big uptick in the number of people make sustainable farming incentive claim . that say to I that we be now on track to make these system work for people . I do not disagree with she that under the previous Government it be a very long painful process , but we be now make progress and we need to make it work . do the Minister recognise that the change not only break the Government ' s previous promise on APR to farmer , but that they will add significant burden and cost to family farm and disincentivise food production ? I also wish my fellow East Anglian MP , the right hon . Lady , good luck in the come hour . the reason we can look forward to a successful and stable future for farmer across the east of England and the rest of the country be that we have absolutely commit to stability . the reason thing have have to be different be that we find — I find this in my Department , just as fellow Ministers find it in their Departments — that the situation be far bad than we have be lead to believe . we have to tackle that problem . Diolch , Mr Llefarydd . as a tenant dairy farmer myself and chair of the Farmers ' Union of Wales Carmarthenshire , I perhaps understand this issue more than anybody else in the Chamber . the Government be try to portray farming as an industry of super - wealthy landowner and that be simply not the case in Wales , let I tell they . Welsh upland farmer in mountainous and hilly area have an average annual income of £ 18 , 600 — yes , you hear correctly : £ 18 , 600 . that be far below the national living wage for hour that be way beyond the average 40 - hour week . what assessment have the Minister make of the impact of the change to apr in Wales , where wage for farmer be so low ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right that farming be very tough right across the country and very difficult in Wales . it be a devolved issue , so I will not comment on specific scheme in Wales , but I point she back to the Treasury figure that show the number of people who make claim for APR . it be relatively few , and I would say it be probably relatively few in Wales . I spend most of the past six year look at Treasury figure and I have a great deal of sympathy for the hon . Gentleman . I fear he be a victim of a hit - and - run exercise by the Treasury on the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs budget . he would do well to think about the lesson learn from the pasty tax , because if he be not careful this measure will be of a similar dimension for this Government . I be very grateful for the right hon . Gentleman ' s concern , but I have to say I do not agree with he . can the Minister confirm how many farm in Wales will be impact by the change to apr in the Budget ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his question . I do not think it be break down by national area at the moment , but it be something we can go away and look at . I draw the attention of the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . farmer and family business be deeply alarmed , because an important principle on which they have rely for decade have be breach . it be obvious from the Red Book that the Chancellor will have to raise tax again in the future . be this the end , or can farmer and small business expect yet more demand on death ? the right hon . Gentleman say decade . I think it be in 1991 or 1992 when the current rule be introduce . I can absolutely assure he that we be now on track for a stable future . that will allow farmer in his constituency and across England to flourish . family farm be very often cash poor . each time the average farm be pass from a parent to a child , the family may have to generate an extra half a million pound . they may deal with that by try to make each acre produce an additional £ 40 of profit . that could send into reverse the agricultural transition to a more nature - friendly farming approach , if they revert to more agrichemical and intensive method . as I ask the Minister in an Adjournment debate last week , what do he do ahead of the Budget to combat this appalling measure ? the hon . Member ask what we do . what we do be look at the farming budget and ensure that we protect it , to allow his constituent and constituent across the country to take part in the scheme that will support they in that important transition . how do the Minister reconcile his sensible acceptance of the fact that food security be vital to national security with farmland be split up and sell off , probably for development , as a result of the Budget change ? the right hon . Gentleman have raise an important point . we will be address it through the land use framework , which will be deliver in the next couple of month . of course there be trade - off . there be a range of pressure on our land , in respect of housing , food , energy and so many other thing . we need to have a rational way of make those decision , and that be exactly what we will introduce . be the Minister , the Secretary of State and the Chancellor aware that so serious be the consequence of this policy that the head of farming family in their 80 and 90 be seriously consider commit suicide before it come into place ? [ hon . member : " Shame ! " ] shame on you ! [ interruption . ] order . I do not need any after - comment . I find it hard to respond to a question like that . I speak early about use language carefully , and I would just reiterate that point . in the rural England that I be privileged to represent part of , they say that you should live as if you be go to die tomorrow and farm as if you be go to live forever . do the Government not understand that if we inheritance - tax our farm out of existence , there will be no forever , and there will be no food from what be once the garden of England ? the right hon . Gentleman be very knowledgeable about these issue . I just gently ask he to look closely at the detail and the figure , which show that the number be low . I do not recognise his characterisation of the future . accord to statistic publish by DEFRA last Thursday , an average farm in England measure 88 hectare , which be roughly one hectare for every word that Labour have to say about farming in its last manifesto . what assessment have the Minister make of the typical value of a farm of that size — about 88 hectare ? I think the hon . Gentleman will know that the definition of a farm be actually rather complicated . that be what make this quite a difficult debate , and I be not go to comment on individual farm , but the overall assessment — [ interruption . ] let I return to the point about the Treasury figure , which show that the number of claim likely to be affect by this change be relatively low . before the election , farmer in my constituency be very concerned about the environmental land management system , which have not work for a long time but which they feel be just begin to work . will the Minister please reassure they that the Government will be proceed with it ? I can absolutely give my hon . friend that assurance . as I say early , throughout the last five year in opposition , I be a consistent supporter of the agricultural transition , and I be determined to ensure that it be successful . I be conscious of the need to use temperate word , but one of my constituent say to I that the Government have leave farmer the choice between sell now in a manage way and leave their farm to their heir , who would be at the mercy of HMRC and the bank . either way , family farm would fall . the Minister have talk extensively today about the challenge of wealthy individual come in to buy up farmland . do the Government accept that this measure will potentially increase that problem , and , if it be a problem , what additional legislative step will they take ? no , I do not . for the reason that I outline early , I think that it will act as a disincentive for people to do that . farmer in my constituency have tell I that they be struggle , owe to the abysmal implementation of a transition payment scheme by the last government . there have be huge delay in receive payment and they have be catch up in bureaucracy . will the Minister reassure I , and those farmer in my constituency , that this Government be fix those problem and speed up payment to our farmer ? I can give my hon . friend that assurance . minister keep say that we should not worry about APR because far more people think they will pay it than will actually be catch . do he not recognise that that be part of the problem ? People have to make business decision now for an uncertain future , and this policy will have a depressive effect on the investment that we need in agriculture . I do not agree . if the right hon . member look at a number of the more thoughtful commentator in the debate over the last few day , he will see that there be some very different view out there on the impact this policy will have . I thank the Minister for his comment about rural crime , which be a real issue in my constituency of Burton and Uttoxeter . we have hear no apology from the conservative party for cut police across our constituency . will the Minister say more about the step that this Government will take to protect farmer from theft , antisocial behaviour and fly - tipping ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . it seem that the conservative party do not understand that if we raise taxis and invest in the future , we can do more to protect people who can not protect themselves . it be vital that we tackle rural crime , which be a top issue that be raise with I consistently . at the Rutland ploughing contest this weekend , it be clear that farmer feel devastated . they feel that the Government do not understand they , because farmer do not have liquid wealth ; they rely on land as their asset to produce food . they turn a small profit but have a very constrain cash flow . indeed , they have the low return on asset of any business sector — an average return of less than 1 % . " lose a farm be not like lose any other business . it can ' t come back . " those be the Prime Minister ' s word . as the Minister ' s constituency be a near neighbour of mine , will he come and repeat they to my farmer in Rutland and Stamford , and have that discussion with they ? I have be on an extended farm tour for the last five year , and I be sure it will continue . in my constituency of Monmouthshire , farmer be anxious and worried . will my hon . friend seek to reassure small family farmer by spell out the figure ? last week , the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury say : " these exemption mean that if someone have no other asset and be pass it on to a direct descendant , a farm or farming business worth up to £ 2 million can be pass on without pay any inheritance tax at all . " — [ Official Report , 31 October 2024 ; Vol . 755 , c . 1036 . ] I be grateful to my hon . friend . I be very reluctant to offer tax advice to anybody , but the advice I have be give be that the figure may even be more than that . I urge people to look closely at the detail , rather than jump to the bad conclusion . reference have be make to rural crime . may I suggest that a whole new definition of " rural crime " be the proposal contain in the Budget ? the Labour party have yet again show that it do not understand the rural community . if family farm close , there will be a knock - on effect for grain merchant , farm machinery dealer and so on . can the Minister explain what assessment have be make of the impact on the total rural economy ? I agree with the hon . Gentleman that the rural economy be closely integrate and that one thing have an effect on another , but the thing that will be most beneficial for the rural economy be a strong economy , which we be build . we be put the foundation in place . I have 1 , 600 farmer in my constituency . some 432 farm will be affect by this silly idea , not to mention the family , their employee and the shopkeeper who rely on our rural economy . this policy be insensible , irrational and plain wrong in its interpretation of real life in our rural community . it will be like the highland clearance . hundred of year of tradition will be lose to the taxman . before I ask the Minister to think again , I can say with absolute certainty that the policy of the Conservative and labour party have reaffirm the fact that the liberal Democrats be the only true champion of farmer and the countryside — order . sorry . will the Minister — Order . sit down , please . the question be long enough . we do not need to start play politic around the Chamber . I do not recognise those figure . when I look at the figure that the Treasury give for the number of claim in the last year available , that be very close to the number in the hon . Lady ' s own constituency , which seem unlikely to I . first , I should declare an interest as an active farmer of 865 acre . secondly , I represent a constituency with some of the most fertile farmland in the country , and since the Budget I have yet to come across anyone who think that this be anything other than a terrible decision . speak at the Country Land and Business Association conference before the election , the then shadow Secretary of State — now the Secretary of State — be ask whether Labour intend to change inheritance tax relief for farmland . the response be : " we have no intention of change apr " . while I feel for the Minister in try to defend the indefensible , would he like to take the opportunity today to apologise to the british farming community and , most importantly , commit to the reversal of this cruel assault on british family farm ? the hon . Gentleman well know the financial state of the country that we inherit . difficult decision have to be make . the average farm in Aberdeenshire be 490 acre , and average value be about £ 5 , 000 an acre for bare land . once the farmhouse , build machinery and livestock be add , that be suddenly well over the inheritance tax threshold and have a huge IHT bill of hundred of thousand of pound come your way . defra figure show that 19 % of farm do not make a profit and 24 % make less than £ 25 , 000 , so do the Minister suggest that farmer sell the land they use to grow the food , sell the machinery they use to harvest the food or sell the building they use to store the food , in order to pay this bill ? the hon . Lady will know that farming policy be different in Scotland , but on the tax issue , which be UK - wide , that be absolutely right , but I would suggest that she get her farmer to look in detail at these proposal , and what they will find be the vast majority — [ interruption . ] when they look at they in detail , they will find that the vast majority will be absolutely fine . as a fellow Cambridgeshire MP , and have already announce a forthcoming ban on neonicotinoid for our sugar beet farmer , what message will the Minister give to the Cambridgeshire farmer so gravely impact by the Government ' s family farm tax that will lead to farmland be sell , and potentially see more of our good and most versatile land be use for vast solar farm ? how do the slashing of agricultural property relief help farmer in Cambridgeshire ? it be very good to see my near neighbour . what I will say to Cambridgeshire farmer be that the thing they need most of all be a stable economy , and they also need a sound environment in which they can farm . the measure that we be put in place will ensure their prosperity for the future . can the Minister reassure the House and the people of my constituency and our country , that the Budget will not add to the cost of produce food and will not result in consumer have to bear the brunt of rise price , high inflation and high interest rate ? the hon . Gentleman make an important point . the people of this country suffer gravely under the last government , and we will do nothing to make their situation more difficult . in fact , this Budget protect the pay packet of the vast majority of the british people . there be already very low margin on every farm , include those in Mid Buckinghamshire . will the addition of between £ 50 and £ 75 a tonne on the price of fertiliser , through the Government ' s propose carbon tax , increase food price ? who will shoulder that burden ? will it be the farmer , or will it be the consumer ? as the hon . Gentleman know , a whole range of factor go into food price . what be very good news be the establishment of GB Energy and a move to a much more affordable and reliable form of power for farmer as well as our consumer . we will all be well off . on Friday , I visit an agricultural college in my constituency , where I hear concern about how the change in this Budget will potentially strip an industry of young farmer . what discussion do the Minister have with farming stakeholder on change to the agricultural property relief prior to the Budget ? the hon . Gentleman will know that tax discussion during the run - up to a Budget be a delicate issue . however , there be no shortage of discussion in newspaper column across the country , so there have clearly be discussion . young people who want to go into farming face real obstacle , and this change could help . indicate dissent . the hon . Gentleman shake his head but , if he talk to people who know about these issue , they agree with I . do the Minister accept that agricultural relief be introduce to protect family farm from be break up , precisely to reflect their role as food producer and custodian of our countryside ? will he rethink this , do what Labour originally promise , and withdraw this proposal ? as a fellow East Anglian MP , the hon . Gentleman will know just how complicated farming be , how much it have change over the last 30 year , and how much it be likely to change in the future . we have to ensure that farming be in the right place to benefit from the change that we be see globally and nationally and , most importantly , that farming can operate in an environmentally and nature - sensitive way . without that , we will all be in deep trouble . in the Minister ' s opening answer , we sadly hear more Government slogan and soundbite than real understanding of the fear that Daventry farmer have be tell I about . I can assure he that they have be look at the detail in great detail . one of they , whose father be sadly come to the end of his life , be now actively look to sell off land because they simply can not make the farm work . that be the next generation go . that be food that feed NHS patient go . do the Minister not think it be time to reverse this policy ? I think it be time for people to take up the opportunity of the scheme that the previous Government introduce and that we be continue , which allow they to farm in an environmentally and nature - friendly way . it will be good for the future and will produce food for this country . there be a very bright future for british farming . give the varied estimate of how many farm will be impact by these change to agricultural property relief , will the Minister confirm how many farm he think will be impact ? I refer the hon . Lady to my early answer . the figure be in the Treasury paper for all to see . since Wednesday , I have be contact by devastate farmer from across Stockton West . their family have farm for generation , and they know that , as a result of this Budget , they will be the last generation to do so . have the Minister make any assessment of the impact this APR change — this family farm tax — will have on the viability of tenant farming ? yes , we have , because we have look at the figure . again , I do not recognise the hon . Gentleman ' s characterisation although , give some of the thing that have be say over the last few day , I understand why people be alarmed . South Devon have some of the most expensive land in the country , which make every farm , regardless of its size , worth a lot of money on paper . one farmer in my constituency say over the weekend : " we may be land rich but we be cash poor and our child will more than likely have to sell the land and maybe building to cover the tax . without the land , the farm be simply no long a farm , take valuable land out of food production . " the Minister say he value food security , and agricultural property relief give we that food security . he say — Order . I think the Minister have get the point . I understand the point but , first , much of this can be avoid through proper planning . secondly , Devon be one of the county where we most often hear it say that people be come in and buy up land for the wrong reason . farmer in Dumfries and Galloway , who have be contact I over the weekend , be not shroud - wave — let we be clear about that . less clear be the figure . the NFU say that as many as 50 % of farm that be produce food , meet environmental target and provide job in remote and rural area could be at risk . Napoleon know that an army march on its stomach , and he also say that a good retreat be well than a bad stand . this government be make a bad stand , and they have a chance to reverse this decision . will they not do that ? " could be at risk " have a very broad definition . the figure be absolutely clear , and I suggest that the hon . Gentleman look at they . unlike in many country that be dominate by vast corporate agribusiness , the british rural landscape , include that of my Stratford - on - Avon constituency , be define by small , family - run farm . they be our local food producer , and they be part of our community . how do the Government plan to protect this heritage against the pressure to sell to multinational agribusiness in the face of a significant inheritance tax burden ? we treasure our wide range of farm , which be very different in different part of the country . the agricultural budget be at its high level ever and it will provide support , particularly to small farm . the previous Government end the five - hectare minimum level . I strongly support that and it will continue to be the case . farming family in West Suffolk feel deep anxiety , in common with those in other constituency , as hon . member from across the House have explain . when those family hear the Minister say that they do not understand the detail , or that they should listen to commentator who agree with the Minister but not they — commentator who probably have nothing to do with farming in the first place — they will be furious with he . will the Minister apologise to those people ? if it be not such a big deal , will he explain why more than 130 , 000 people have already sign the NFU petition tell he to change the policy ? at no point do I say that farming family do not understand the detail . what I ask be for member on the Conservative Benches to look at the detail , because when they look at the detail , they will find the truth . family farmer in my constituency of Bicester and Woodstock be leave confused and angry by this betrayal by the Government over APR . they want to know whose daft idea it be . will the Minister clarify whether the measure be propose by DEFRA , as part of the stability for farm that he outline , or do it come from the Treasury ? there be nothing daft about put this country ' s finance on a sound footing . I say to the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent , if they want a decent health service , school and transport , this Budget will deliver that . may I politely suggest to the Minister that the time for his weekend reading be before decide the policy , not afterwards ? farmer in my constituency , include Jonathan Vine - Hall , tell I that the change to the relief will make it financially non - viable to pass on his very typical 450 acre farm . do the Minister agree with I that the likely outcome of that will be that disintereste investor will buy the farm instead , which be exactly what he seek to avoid ? the likely outcome will be that people will put arrangement in place to pass on their farm at the appropriate time , pull more young people into farming , which will be a good thing . my overall message to farmer across Britain be , " this Government be on your side . we will support you . look at the agricultural budget and the money that have be pay out of the flood budget . we be with you . Don ' t listen to these people . " point of Order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . point of order should come after statement , as you well know , Sir Roger , unless this be specifically about this point . indicate assent . well , in that case — I know you know well than I . be you give any indication as to why the Secretary of State be not here to answer the urgent question , Mr Speaker ? absolutely not . I grant the urgent question because I know how important the issue be , include to my good farmer in Chorley . high Education Reform before I call the Secretary of State for Education to make a statement , I note that report about the possible increase in high education tuition fee start appear in the medium early this afternoon . what a surprise — very leaky . Mr Holden , you don ' t help yourself , do you ? the Secretary of State be here to make a statement , so hon . member will have the opportunity to question she . if the premature media reporting be due to an unauthorised leak , that be a great discourtesy to this House . I hope the Secretary of State will be able to identify the guilty party , take appropriate action and brief I accordingly . I hope the Secretary of State will announce a leak inquiry , we will get all the detail of how this information could have get out and the House will be inform as that go forward . Mr Speaker , may I begin by express my deep regret that the content of the statement that I be about to make appear in the medium early this afternoon ? it have always be my intention to come before this House to make the statement first , give its significance and importance . I appreciate that you , member across the House , and our convention , rightly demand and expect that . I hope that you can accept my deep frustration and regret at what have take place . I will take whatever step I can to keep you update on the matter , because I do respect the convention of and my responsibility to this House . can we take it that there will be a full inquiry into how this have happen — that everybody will be bring in and question , and you will then update we on that full inquiry ? that be what I really want . I can give you that undertaking , Mr Speaker , and I will speak to official about the matter , as you request . thank you . with permission , I would like to make a statement about the future of our high education sector and the change that we will be make for student in the upcoming academic year , 2025 - 26 . before I go far , I want to make clear the approach that this Labour Government take to our university and , above all , to the student whose education be their central purpose , because the Conservative Government do not just talk down university ; they talk down the aspiration of working - class family across our country , and they dismiss the ambition of our young people and undermine their opportunity . this Government take a different approach . we be determined to break down the barrier to opportunity , and high education be central to that mission . high education be part of what make our country great . it enrich our culture , power our economy and sustain intellectual tradition stretch back century . it be a beacon of opportunity — to student not just from this country , but from across the world — and a sector of which everyone in this House ought to be proud . but when this Government take office in July , we find a university sector face severe financial challenge . with tuition fee freeze for the last seven year , university have suffer a significant real - term decline in their income . we also find a regulator subject to political whim , unable to focus on the challenge our university face . a succession of Conservative Ministers face with tough decision have , for year after year , duck they time and again . we inherit in our university , as across so much of our public sector , the consequence of long year of shameful abdication of responsibility : long year in which I hear too often from student of the gap between the course they be promise and the experience they have , about the trouble they have make end meet as they work hard not merely at their study but often at two or more job on top ; long year in which I see the amazing research our university deliver but how infrequently those triumph drive wide success ; and long year in which I hear from international student , who make such an important contribution to our country , that the previous Government have make they feel neither value nor welcome . that be the mess that Opposition member leave behind , but where the Conservatives shirk the hard choice , this Government have not hesitate to grip the challenge we face and take the tough decision to restore stability to high education , to fix the foundation and to deliver change . we have accept in full the recommendation of the independent review of the Office for Students . we have also bring new leadership to the office and refocus its work to monitor university ' finance and to hold leadership to account . I thank Sir David Behan for his work both lead the independent review and now as its interim chair . we have pause the commencement of the last government ' s freedom of speech legislation while we consider the impact on university , student and the regulator , because although university must be home to robust discussion and rigorous challenge , regulation must also be workable . I be here today to make two set of announcement on high education reform , address the challenge our student and university face , and grip these issue as a responsible government . first , we will fix the foundation . we will secure the future of high education so that student can benefit from a world - class education for generation to come . that be why I be announce that , in line with the forecast set out in the Budget last week , from April 2025 we will be increase the maximum cap for tuition fee in line with inflation to £ 9 , 535 — an increase of £ 285 per academic year . [ Official Report , 5 November 2024 ; Vol . 756 , c . 4wc . ] ( Correction ) I understand that some student may worry about the impact that the increase will have on their loan debt , so I want to reassure student already at university that when they start repay their loan , they will not see high monthly repayment as a result of these change to fee and maintenance loan . that be because student loan be not like consumer loan ; monthly repayment depend on earning , not simply the amount borrow or interest rate , and at the end of any loan term , any outstanding loan balance , include interest build up , will be write off . increase the fee cap have not be an easy decision , but I want to be crystal clear that this will not cost graduate more each month as they start to repay their loan . university be responsible for manage their own finance and must act to remain sustainable , but member across the House will agree that it be no use keep tuition fee down for future student if the university be not there for they to attend , nor if student can not afford to support themselves while they study . I therefore confirm that we will boost support for student with living cost by increase maximum maintenance loan in line with inflation , give they an additional £ 414 a year in ' 25 - 26 . [ Official Report , 19 November 2024 ; Vol . 757 , c . 2wc . ] ( Correction ) I also confirm that from the start of the ' 25 - 26 academic year a low fee limit of £ 5 , 760 will be introduce for foundation year in classroom - base subject such as business , social science and humanity . the Government recognise the importance of foundation year for promote access to high education , but they can be deliver more efficiently in classroom - base subject , at a low cost to student . the change that the Government be bring about must go far , so my second set of announcement signal the start of deep change for our student , our university and our country . today , I will set out the scale of our ambition to build a high education system fit for the challenge not just of today but of tomorrow . in the month ahead , we will publish our proposal , because in university , as across our public service , investment can come only with the promise of major reform . the contribution of high education to our economy , our community and our country must grow and strengthen . that begin with university do more to spread opportunity to disadvantaged student , in both expand access and improve outcome . our most recent datum show why . the gap between disadvantaged student and their peer in progression to university by age 19 be the high on record . I will not tolerate that shameful divide any long . university can and must do more , and they must rise to the huge challenge of technological change , support adult with the flexibility that they need to retrain . that be why we confirm in the Budget that we be press ahead with the lifelong learning entitlement . while the UK be home to many world - class university , it be time that all student in high education in this country feel the benefit . it be time to raise the bar far on teaching standard , to improve our world - lead reputation and drive out poor practice , and it be time to ensure that all student get good value for money , which , if we be honest , have not always be the case in the past . furthermore , university must do more to raise their impact beyond their gate . they must do more to drive the growth that this country sorely need by attract talent from around the world , join with Skills England , employer and partner in further education to deliver the skill that people and business need , and shape world - class research to create good job across the country . member across the House will know how important university can be for the area that surround they — not just local economy but local community . I want university to work hard to embed themselves in those local community , as civic anchor — the beat heart of local life in our town and city — not ivory tower far from local concern . lie beneath those challenge must be a further transformation : a renew drive for efficiency . student and taxpayer support the cost of our university . they be right to expect that every penny be spend effectively . we will not accept wasteful spending . university must rise to the challenge , which mean ensure that the pay of their top team be fair and justifiable . I be determined that our world - class high education sector do not merely survive in the year ahead but thrive , support student in every corner of our country and at every stage of their life . I be determined that our university become all that I know they can be . the scale of our ambition demand a new approach , root in partnership , so I look forward to partnering with the sector , the Office for Students and UK Research and Innovation . I will work closely with Ministers across Government , in particular the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology , to deliver a reformed and strengthen high education system for our country . as today the Government look to the future , I be remind that more than 60 year have pass since the Robbins report on high education be present to this House , with its famous principle " that course of high education should be available for all those who be qualified by ability and attainment to pursue they and who wish to do so . " that principle drive the expansion of high education over the decade that follow , under successive government of both party . it be central to the thinking of this Government today . that be why responsible government must treat university not as a political battleground but as a public good . it be why Government member want to see the continued success of our young people , and it be why we be determined to ensure the sustainability and success of our high education sector , not just in the year ahead but for decade to come . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of her statement . the Budget last week declare war on business and private sector worker , and on farmer , as we have just hear . it seem that today the Secretary of State want to add student to that list . not content with push up the cost of live for everyone with an inflationary budget , and push down wage with a national insurance increase , we be now in a situation whereby student will suffer from the first inflationary increase in a number of year , at a time when they can least afford it . yet again , there be no sign of that in the labour manifesto . indeed , in only 2020 , the Prime Minister make scrap university tuition fee a centrepiece of his leadership campaign — perhaps we should start put sell - by date on his statement . but it be not just the Prime Minister : in July this year , at the time of the King ' s Speech , the Secretary of State say that she have " no plan " to increase tuition fee , and yesterday the Chancellor say that there be " no need to increase taxis far . " yet what be happen today apart from a hike in the effective tax that graduate have to pay ? student have not have a chance to prepare for that rise . they will have fairly expect , base on all the statement that I have mention , that the last thing a Labour Government would do in office be put up tuition fee . we have some of the good university in the world here in the UK , but we need to do much more to reform the system and make it well and fair for student and university by ensure that course provide student with an economic return , help university to harness the growth potential of the innovation that they foster , and ensure that student and lecturer be free to express and debate their view . we be willing to work with the Government on all those thing . it be also right that we consider university funding , but push up cost for student at short notice in an unreformed system will lead to student up and down the country feel betray . how much of the increase will be absorb by the national insurance increase for employee at university ? do the Secretary of State intend to increase fee every year , or should student expect this to be the only increase ? what be the impact of the change on public finance , and have the Office for Budget Responsibility be consult ? why be the change not announce in the Budget ? how much long will it take the average borrower to repay their tuition fee as a result of the change ? and why be labour not up front about the measure in its manifesto ? in June 2023 , the title of an article write by the now Secretary of State proclaim : " Graduates , you will pay less under a Labour government " . well , it turn out they will pay more — more broken promise . amid the faux outrage that we just hear from the shadow Education Secretary , I do not hear whether she will support the measure . she , like her party for many month during the election campaign , have nothing to say other than do down the ambition and aspiration of young people and their family who want the opportunity to go on to university . the Conservatives go into the last election determine to ensure that few young people have the chance to go to university . that be shameful , and it be something that Labour will never back . young people with talent and ambition , and their family , want a Government who recognise it . it be little wonder that , at the ballot box on 4 July , the right hon . Lady ' s party get a clear message . it be just a shame that in the time since , there have be no reflection on why that be . the Conservatives have learn nothing from their year of failure . they duck the tough decision for year . I make it absolutely clear to the House that I do not take any pleasure in this decision — it be not one that I want to take — but I be determined to secure the long - term financial sustainability of our world - lead university . she be right to recognise their success . they be beacon around the world , and that necessitate tough decision — decision that she and her colleague in the Treasury duck year after year . they put a conservative peer in to chair what should have be an independent regulator . they pick fight with the sector time and again , and over the course of 10 year , the conservative party never have a serious plan to reform the high education sector . I be determined to bring that reform , and in the month to come we will set out further plan to reform efficiency , access and participation for our young people . to answer the precise question that the right hon . Lady ask , as we lay legislation before the House , we will publish an impact assessment alongside it . I call the Chair of the Education Committee . first , let I put it on the record that I be the parent of a young person in her first year at university . the Secretary of State have set out very clearly the case for our university and the justification for her announcement today . however , as young people who might be apply for university as the announcement be be make might see only the headline , what step be she take to ensure that it be communicate effectively , so that it do not deter young people from low and middle - income background from apply to university in the first place ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her question , and I look forward to speak with she and her newly constitute Select Committee about this issue and many other . I recognise the importance of communicate the message that university should be for all young people who have demonstrate that they have the qualification and talent require . this be not an easy decision , but as Secretary of State , I need to ensure that we secure the long - term financial sustainability of the sector . alongside that , I be absolutely clear with the sector — with vice - chancellor and other — that it must do more to provide well support and to widen access and participation so that more young people , especially those from more disadvantaged background , have the opportunity to benefit from high education . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of her statement . it be clear that the current university funding system be break . not only be it push many university into a financial crisis , but the change make by the previous Conservative Government have leave we with a system that be deeply unfair in how it treat student . it simply can not be right to raise fee without take step to substantially reform the system to make it fair . by abolish maintenance grant for disadvantaged student in 2016 , the Conservatives put up a barrier between disadvantaged student and high education . the Liberal Democrats oppose that abolition at the time , and we have consistently campaign to restore those grant ever since . the previous Government also cut the repayment threshold to £ 25 , 000 , so today ' s student have to repay hundred of pound more per year than old graduate on the same salary . perhaps bad of all , they lengthen the repayment period from 30 year to 40 year for those start course from August 2023 onwards , so today ' s student will still be pay back their loan in 2066 . do the Secretary of State accept that the first priority must be to fully reform the system , fix the damage that those change make and create a system that be fair for all student ? that , rather than simply put up fee without those much wide reform , have to be the good way forward . the crisis in funding for university must be address , but have the Government consider how to support university without raise fee ? do the Secretary of State agree that an important first step would be to recognise the benefit of international student and give university stability in that area of policy ? do she also agree that any reform must examine how university currently spend their allocation of £ 10 , 000 per student per year , so that that money be spend as efficiently as possible ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . I gently observe that although it might have be slightly before his time in this House , his party have get a bit of form on this topic , but I will address his question in the spirit in which he ask they . I appreciate the constructive approach that he have take . as part of the reform that we want to deliver for our young people and our sector , the hon . Gentleman ' s question about make sure that young people be support to succeed be important one . since become Secretary of State , I have also be very clear that our international student play a crucial role , not just in our community and our country but in the contribution they make to our local economy — I see that myself as a constituency MP . as we take forward our programme of reform , work with the sector and other , I will of course be happy to discuss that far with the hon . Gentleman . the last government nearly bankrupt a number of university . indeed , one of the two excellent university in my constituency have to go through a significant redundancy programme to stay afloat . however , I recognise the challenge that student in my constituency be face , not least because of the high cost of living . as part of my right hon . friend ' s reform , will she also look at the cost of housing student , so that they can pay their way when they be study ? my hon . friend make an important point , and we will absolutely take that into consideration . it be important that we look at student accommodation , which be a big challenge in many university town , include in her constituency . I believe the sector should be do more to address issue around student accommodation , work with local council . we will be set clear expectation of how that should work in future . the Secretary of State mention have pause the Higher Education ( Freedom of Speech ) Act 2023 . do she accept that , give that the Act get Royal Assent in May 2023 , it remain the law of the land until repeal by this Parliament ? how long do she expect that pause to continue ? I be grateful to the right hon . Gentleman . he be correct in the question he ask ; what I would say about the commencement of the provision and the wide , long - term future of the Act be this . I believe it be important that our university be place of robust challenge and disagreement , and that student should be expose to a range of view , some of which they may not agree with . however , alongside that , it be important that regulation be workable . that be why we be take our time to make sure that we get this right , listen to a range of voice across the sector who hold differ view . that work be under way . we will make sure that we act have listen to those view , and that will be at the heart of further step we take in this area . I would not be stand here today be it not for the incredible opportunity of a university education . I be the first in my family to attend and I spend the next 20 year as a high education lecturer , watch culture war break out and the financial system become increasingly broken . do the Secretary of State agree that we now have an opportunity to restore university as machine of opportunity and economic growth ? I agree with my hon . friend , who recognise , both in his professional life before come to this House and as a constituency MP , the crucial role that our university play in town and city , as well as by provide opportunity for lot of young people . alongside that , one area where we need to make more progress — and in which I know that my hon . friend have a real interest — be care - experience young people and their opportunity at university . there be a lot more that the sector must do to support young people come through the care system who want the chance to go on to university , to ensure that the additional barrier they face be overcome , and I would expect it to be do more . do the Secretary of State accept that it might have be well to hold a wide review of the whole system — it be break ; we know that — instead of jump immediately to put up tuition fee ? she say that we all respect and want to protect our world - beat university , but how do she square that with her government remove the funding for the exascale computer at Edinburgh University , which would have maintain not only its position , but our whole university sector ' s position ? what I be announce today be very much in line with the approach that we take at this Budget — a one - year settlement that allow we to fix the foundation , give the need to bring financial sustainability to the sector , because we recognise the acute financial pressure that many university be face after year of fall income from fee . that be not an easy decision , but it can not be the entirety of what we do . I be determined to reform the sector . I will happily work with the hon . member ' s party to look at idea for how we do that , but she will know as well as I do that the record on progression to university for young people from more disadvantaged background in Scotland be not a strong one . I commend my right hon . friend for make such a bold and difficult decision here when so many of her predecessor shy away from it . put the sector on a sound financial footing be crucial , but I also welcome the move on maintenance support . can she assure I that , when she talk about increase efficiency in the sector , she be talk not about vice - chancellor balance staff and workload , but about address the overspend in some capital project that might be view as particularly wasteful , so that good money do not follow bad ? my hon . friend have long champion our fantastic university . he be right to draw attention to the need for further efficiency , but he be also right to identify that efficiency do not mean make staff do more with less , or indeed with few staff . they do mean reel in needless or excessive spend and waste , and he be right to highlight that . ten million pensioner , almost 30 million worker who the Institute for Fiscal Studies say will now see low wage because of national insurance rise , ten of thousand of farmer , hundred of thousand of small business see business rate rise , and today million of student . be there anyone that this Government tell before the general election " Don ' t worry ! " who they have not since shaft ? I remain slightly bewilder by the right hon . Gentleman ' s approach . he have clearly learn nothing from the election campaign we have just be through and clearly be not listen when he hear time and again about the £ 22 billion black hole his party leave behind and the difficult decision it duck year after year . that be the Conservatives ’ record , and he should reflect on it . through a 10 - year career in the high education sector and now as chair of the all - party parliamentary university group , two thing have become abundantly clear to I : first , the conservative party leave the sector in utterly dire strait when it leave office , and secondly , today ' s measure be absolutely necessary for our university to avoid bankruptcy . what step be the Secretary of State take with university , student and campus union to develop a new financial model — one that deliver excellence and value for student , and stability and security for university staff and management ? my hon . friend bring real expertise on these matter to the House . while the Government ensure that we play our part in secure financial sustainability , I have be clear with the sector that it too must do more . that involve play an expand role in drive economic growth , include in town and city across the country . the sector ought to be consider how it can do more , include work with further education provider to look at different way of deliver provision , especially for adult learner , who often need a different approach in order to upskill , retrain and take on new opportunity . I have see some great example of that and some fantastic practice around the country , but there be more that the sector should be do . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s announcement on increase maintenance loan and what that will do for equality of opportunity . I agree with she that the last Government do not properly value the contribution of international student . for more than 15 year , the much high fee charge to international student have cross - subsidise british student , to say nothing of what international student do for british soft power . will the Government remove international student from the net migration figure , so that that cross - subsidy can continue ? I agree with the hon . gentleman on the important contribution that international student make to our country and the reach they give we around the world through soft power , influence and the business and trading link that they grow and develop , but I be afraid I can not give he the answer he seek on his wide question . Keele University and the University of Staffordshire , two of the wonderful university around my constituency , have be warn for a long time of the dire financial circumstance they face . we often forget that they be also major employer in my constituency , so I welcome the announcement of this financial support — if nothing else , to protect job in those institution that currently face a desperate budget round . I share the Secretary of State ' s ambition to widen participation ; in my patch , Uni Connect ' s Higher Horizons scheme be do a lot of work to help disadvantaged student to access high education . what be her Department do to ensure that that funding be in place , so that more young people from place such as Stoke - on - Trent can have a high education experience ? my hon . friend be right to raise those issue and to highlight the important contribution that university make to employment opportunity , and not just for academic and other engage in research and teaching , but for a wide range of job right across the board . from security staff to hospitality staff and library staff , there be many job across high education that play a crucial role . the Department be look at how we can work with the sector to deliver an expansion in the civic role of our university . it be important that they do more when it come to economic growth , but also to widen participation , because it be shameful that too few young people from disadvantaged background have the opportunity to go to university . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s announcement that " university must be home to robust discussion and rigorous challenge " . that be very welcome , but she must be aware that many student be put off go to university by the already very high fee . there be no proposal in her statement to reform university finance ; there be only a proposal to charge student more . will that not drive more people away from university education rather than to it ? university should not be dependent just on student income to survive . should we not be move in the direction of lower fee , or indeed remove they altogether , in order to make high and further education genuinely open to all in our society ? I agree that there be more that university can do to ensure that they have a wide source of income . that include great work around economic growth , around spin - off and much more besides — I will be work with my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology on precisely those question . the reality be that it be necessary to bring forward this increase next year to stabilise the sector . it be a difficult decision but a necessary one , because it be no good encourage young people to go to university if their institution continue to be in financial peril . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement . I fully understand that something need to be do . tuition fee be introduce just before I go to university . it never sit well with I that member of this House go to university free of charge , or with a grant too , and then seemingly pull the drawbridge up behind they . I be pleased that the Secretary of State mention disadvantaged student and her plan to conduct an equality impact assessment , but we know that university application have be slowly decline . have she any plan to review her action if the equality impact assessment show that there be issue for disadvantaged student ? we will be set out further plan in the come month around the wide reform that we intend to bring to the sector . I recognise my hon . friend ' s genuine concern about make sure that talented young people who want to expand their mind and benefit from university have the chance to do so . there be much more that the sector can and must do to improve outcome for disadvantaged student , include around progression . sadly , it be not just that few disadvantaged young people be think about university , but that the progression rate in term of completion be just not good enough . More need to happen on that front , too . university work in collaboration with fe sector institution such as Petroc college in my constituency . government funding for the FE sector have fall significantly in real term over the past decade , lead to fall teacher pay . what be the plan to fund the fe sector so that it can remain a viable and accessible option , particularly in rural area such as mine , for people to access university course ? the hon . Gentleman raise important point not just about the state of our further education sector , but about the important collaboration between further education and high education provider , include in community where travel time might be long , and about ensure that access to education be available to a much wide range of people . I have see some really great work go on across the country , but there be more that the Government can encourage high institution to do . the Government inherit a real mess in further education , a sector that have be ignore for so many year . we be determined to put that right . that be why in this Budget we invest £ 300 million into further education , alongside a £ 300 million capital allocation , for the first time in a number of year : to ensure that we be invest in our further education college , which be crucial part of our town and city . we have thousand of international student at the University of Hertfordshire in Hatfield — they be most welcome and they make a great contribution . however , when the conservative party be in power , the independent Office for Students conclude that the entire high education model be reliant on international fee income . do my right hon . friend agree that that be a completely unsustainable model — another example of the conservative party ignore a problem and leave it to we to rescue and reform our high education sector ? international student play an important role in our community and make an important contribution to our economy , but my hon . friend be right to draw attention to the fact that there can sometimes be pressure . I know that can be especially acute where expansion happen and the right level of accommodation do not follow . we will be set clear expectation of the sector that it have to work with local council to ensure the availability of high - quality accommodation . alongside that , as a Government we be legislate to make sure there be high standard in the private rent sector through the Renters ( Reform ) Bill , because too many student be expect to live in substandard private rent accommodation . I put on record that I be the parent of three student — two undergrad and one postgrad — who be all pay their fee . do the Secretary of State agree that course offer just eight hour a week of contact time do not represent good value for money ? will she ensure that that element be fully evaluate in the reform that be come ? will she advise the sector that if student be get only eight hour of contact time , which be effectively a part - time course , they do not need to charge the full fee ? we be work closely with the Office for Students on the area that the hon . Lady identifie . she be right that we need to do more on quality , particularly teach quality , and we will be discuss that far in the month to come . I would be more than happy to discuss that issue with she and her party . university be critical for student , of course , but also for economic growth , town and city regeneration , and much more . reform and accountability be also important . will the Secretary of State outline in a bit more detail the accountability to which she will hold these university vice - chancellor on teach contact time , help vulnerable student and ensure that university play a huge part in the wide community of the town and city in which they be anchor institution ? one of the first action I take as Secretary of State be to refocus the work of the Office for student on precisely those area that my hon . friend identifie , because it be important that we ensure that the student experience at university be strong and that student have the opportunity to take part in a wide range of activity . I be also acutely aware of the financial pressure that many student be experience , and that be why we have take the decision to increase maintenance loan at the rate of inflation . I have set out five priority today for reform of the high education sector . we will expect high education provider to play a strong role in expand access and improve outcome , especially for disadvantaged student . such institution should make a strong contribution to their community and to economic growth . it be not that many year ago that I be at university — [ Laughter . ] who would have think it ? just before the Secretary of State take to her foot , I check my student loan balance , and it be just over £ 60 , 000 . for many student at university , the elimination of maintenance grant be devastating , and the reintroduction of maintenance grant will mean that live cost be not barrier to university for those disadvantaged student . will the Secretary of State confirm the reintroduction of maintenance grant , so that no young people be put off university for fear of the cost ? I can tell the hon . Gentleman that we will look at this issue as part of wide reform , but he will appreciate that after 14 year of conservative failure when it come to our university , there be no easy option . this be a difficult decision and a difficult choice , but I can give he the assurance that I want to ensure that university remain an attractive option for all young people who want the chance to learn , to expand their mind and to take all the opportunity that come from a university education . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s leadership not just on the funding , but on the reform that the sector need . the previous Government ' s approach to regulation put ideology over evidence , and one example of that be in the role of the designate quality body . it be there to check on quality and standard in high education , but it have to give up that role because the regulatory climate that the previous Government bring in be non - compliant with international standard . can the Secretary of State assure the House that the regulatory approach that she will take will be different from that of the previous government and ensure that our high education sector continue to be world - leading ? my hon . friend bring real experience on these matter to the House . he will know it be important that the independent regulator retain the autonomy to act , but we will work with it closely on quality , student outcome and much more besides . as he will know , under the last Conservative Government , that regulator be increasingly fixate on political matter and political whim , and do not have enough focus on teach quality and student ' outcome . under its new interim chair , Sir David Behan , it have change that approach and be focus on ensure not only that our university be sustainable , but that they deliver well outcome for student . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement . with fee to increase , how can we expect student to stay and work within the United Kingdom when the field be much green on other shore and it be much cheap to live there as well ? may I make a plea about the retention of student and junior doctor ? I have repeatedly ask for bursary or forgiveness of debt against a job commitment of perhaps three or four year . will she consider that ? if enact , that would mean more student and junior doctor stay , which have to be good . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman . for many young people , the chance to go to university be a long - term investment in their future prospect , which offer not just the chance to study and to learn , but the chance to take on a new career in the way he describe , particularly in our health service . of course , this matter overlap with the Department of Health and Social Care , and he can be assure that we keep these matter under review . I draw member ' attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . any country that be serious about grow its economy should also be serious about support its university sector . in that context , I welcome the promise that a review will be publish soon . I hope that it will take lesson from Scotland , where while undergraduate education be free , university be grossly underfunde to deliver it . the announcement will only widen the gap between Scotland and England in that regard . I also welcome the confirmation that we need our university to be able to attract talent from around the world . both the Higher Education Policy Institute and my union , the University and College Union , have say that the previous Government put block in place to that happen . will the Secretary of State engage with the sector to ensure that we have the right environment to attract the good student and the good staff to UK university and that the very good international graduate can work here at the point of graduation ? I be grateful to my hon . friend , who raise a number of important point . in addition to those he make about the record in Scotland , he will know well than most of we the shameful record of the SNP Government when it come to opportunity for university study for our more disadvantaged student . the share of first - time university entrant from Scotland ' s most deprive area fall for the second consecutive year . he will also know that the SNP Government in Scotland also cut mental health provision for scottish student . I would like to put on the record that my husband work for a university . I welcome the announcement that the Government plan to reform and strengthen high education . I go from a northern comprehensive school to university , and I agree it be vital that we expand access so that student from all background can go to university . I recently meet the vice - chancellor of Bradford University , which have a high proportion of student draw from the city , but many student fail to progress due to the lack of high - quality graduate job . I invite the Secretary of State to come to Bradford , perhaps meet other Bradford mp and see the civic contribution that the university make . hopefully we will see more of that from other university in the future . I would be delighted to visit and meet my hon . friend and other colleague in neighbouring constituency to discuss the approach that have be take there . she make the wide point that our high education sector be diverse and include a range of provider who offer different kind of opportunity , training and study for different set of student . of course , young people be often the focus of our attention in these discussion , but the chance to go to university later on in life be also crucial , with the opportunity to retrain , to upskill and to make a change of career . many of our new university have drive so much of the excellent work that I have see in expand opportunity for adult to go back into education . before I be elect to this place I be a university lecturer and researcher . I work hard to expand access to education for all . I agree with the Secretary of State that university need to do more to ensure that , no matter people ' s background , they have the opportunity to access a university education and the social mobility that come with that . do she agree that such opportunity be a fantastic route for social mobility , whether student choose to study a science degree , a social science degree , or one of the fantastic art and humanity degree ? I agree . my hon . friend will recognise that over many year we hear the Conservatives do down young people ' s ambition to go on and study . like I , he will have hear dismissive talk , which I will not repeat , about type of degree and the kind of study that our young people be engage in . it be essential for a modern economy that people have the chance to study science and technology and much more aside , but also subject like art and music , not just because they be good in and of themselves but because , increasingly , they be a key part of drive economic growth in our country . the dire state of the finance of high education institution such as the University of East Anglia be likely to be improve by this announcement , but can the Secretary of State assure staff and student that mechanism be in place to ensure that increase income from fee translate into few job loss and help encourage more student from low - income background into university ? that be my expectation . excessive and wasteful spend in university need to be rein in . there must be a much great push for efficiency . as a government , we have make the difficult decision to increase fee to provide sustainability for the sector . now , the sector must play its part . I have Falmouth University in my constituency , which be a world - lead art university . unlike the Conservatives , this Government have commit to restore the art as a large part of the economy in this country . could the Secretary of State confirm that art degree will be an important part of the economy in future , and will be support by this government ? go to university be often a long - term investment in someone ' s earn potential and career opportunity , but the chance to study be also good in and of itself . that mean that we must value and respect a wide range of course and opportunity , include subject like music , art and much more besides , although many well - pay , great career also result from study such subject . when I be a student at Morley high school , the University of Leeds reach out to I and student like I to ensure that we consider a place at the institution , despite the fee at the time . do the Secretary of State agree that , whatever the fee , it be crucial that these university expand access to working - class student , to truly break down the barrier to opportunity ? I agree very strongly . it be crucial that our university sector do more to open up opportunity , include to working - class young people and those who do not have a family history of go to university . the experience that my hon . friend describe be very much my experience too — not just the encouragement that I receive from my teacher but the opportunity to visit university and see what be available . although often there be individual good practice of the type he describe , university should do more , particularly within their region , to collaborate to avoid duplication , ensure that they be serve their community and draw on the wide range of talent available . they must make sure that university be an attractive option for young people who otherwise might not consider go to high education . Roadworks ( Regulation ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision about the regulation of roadwork ; and for connected purpose . I introduce a very similar ten - minute rule Bill in the previous parliamentary Session , which unfortunately run out of time . however , under the heading of the " can the Cones " campaign , I be now seek to reintroduce similar legislation to help tackle the issue of overrun roadwork head on . one of the great frustration of modern life be queue for age in a line of traffic , inch forwards to get through a set of contraflow traffic light at the scene of some roadwork , only to then finally crawl past a large hole in the ground , heavily cone off , with absolutely no one work on the site . accord to datum highlight by the Echo newspaper , recent freedom of information request show that during the 2021 - 22 financial year there be over 77 , 000 street and roadwork in my county of Essex , make it the most dig up county in Britain . but this be by no mean an issue confine to Essex . last week , we have a debate in Westminster Hall on this same subject , ably secure by my hon . friend the Member for Broxbourne ( Lewis Cocking ) , who I be pleased to say be one of the sponsor of my Bill , which also have cross - party support . last week ' s debate be reply to by the Roads Minister , the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , the hon . member for Nottingham South ( Lilian Greenwood ) . I be pleased to note that she be in her place on the Front Bench listen today , as she promise she would be . I thank the Minister for her courtesy . roadwork can take place for a variety of reason . sometimes utility company be carry out repair or maintenance , broadband provider lay new fibre , or property developer connect new estate to the grid . in many case , however , the common denominator be a lack of any palpable sense of urgency whatever to get the job do , regardless of the inconvenience cause to the travel public . as a constituency MP , I have receive a grow tide of complaint about the spiral frequency of roadwork in recent year , with the gas utility company Cadent be by far the bad serial offender . last year , in one of my village , Hockley , a perfect storm of the above three thing occur and lead to so many concurrent roadwork that the exasperated villager , lead by a very proactive local councillor , Adrian eve , resort to nickname their village " Blockley " . give all that , the Bill essentially have three key aim . first , it would give local highway authority , such as Essex county council , much strong power to control the granting of permit to anyone who want to dig up the highway network . this be a critical weakness in the current arrangement . currently , highway authority can only really refuse to grant a permit on safety ground . if those apply for one deem the work to be an emergency , the authority ' s ability to refuse be weak still . and I be sad to report that people sometimes attempt to game the system . the Bill would allow refusal on the ground of cause unacceptable disruption and would materially strengthen the hand of council to negotiate much tight condition , include strict deadline when grant permit , so that company would hopefully be prevent from overrun in the first place . secondly , the Bill would mandate highway authority to take all practicable step to deconflict roadwork in their area to prevent multiple work in the same neighbourhood from lead to near gridlock , especially during peak period . under section 59 of the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991 , local authority be require to co - ordinate roadwork to minimise disruption to road user . it state that a street authority " shall use their good endeavour to co - ordinate the execution of work of all kind " . nevertheless , a few year ago we have near chaos in my home town of Rayleigh when several set of roadwork on the main artery in and out of the town be allow to proceed at almost exactly the same time . when we subsequently look into why , it turn out that the official at county hall who hand out the permit to developer do not communicate with the one who give they to utility company . in short , the left hand do not know what the right hand be do , which lead to utter confusion and some very frustrated constituent . the Bill seek to rectify that , ensure a far more join - up approach , by impose much strict procedure on highway authority that give out the permit . it also seek to prevent the same stretch of road from be dig up multiple time , in short succession , by different company . thirdly , the Bill would materially increase the fine for roadwork that do overrun . at present , under section 74 of the 1991 Act , local highway authority have the power to fine utility company for " unreasonably prolong " occupation of the highway . the fine to be levy be set out in the snappily entitle Street Works ( charge for unreasonably Prolonged Occupation of the Highway ) ( England ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2012 , with which I be sure the whole House be familiar , and which provide for a maximum charge in respect of " traffic - sensitive " street of £ 5 , 000 a day for the first three day of overrun and £ 10 , 000 a day thereafter . however , for street that fall outside that tightly define category , the fine fall away dramatically . crucially , they have not be update or adjust for inflation since 2012 , and be hardly likely to be a deterrent to major utility company or housing developer , some of whom just accept they — on the rare occasion on which they be actually levy — as a cost of do business . the Bill would significantly increase the penalty for overrun beyond the schedule agree when the permit be first grant . persistent offender could be fine up to 10 % of their annual corporate turnover , which should make even the most high - handed company sit up and listen . another related solution be " lane rental " — not to be confuse with " road pricing " — whereby company must pay per day to carry out roadwork . that give they a clear financial incentive to be efficient , but at present it apply to only a very limited number of select road . may I suggest to the Minister that perhaps there be scope for this solution to be much more widely apply ? I see that she be nod . as an experienced constituency MP , I know that it be a rare thing for a ten - minute rule Bill to make it on to the statute book . nevertheless , I hope that the Government may yet be minded to grant it time to assist its passage . fail that , I should be very grateful for a meeting with the Roads Minister so that we can seek at last to " can the Cones " , either through legislation or , at the very least , by strengthen Government guidance to highway authority to achieve the same effect , short of primary legislation itself . no one really like roadwork . they be sometimes a necessary evil of modern life . nevertheless , the spirit of this Bill be to try to ensure that where they be really necessary , we expedite they as quickly as practicable , with as little disruption as possible . I promise my constituent when seek re - election that if they return I to Parliament , I would seek to reintroduce my Roadworks ( Regulation ) Bill , and I be keep my word to they today . this be not a partisan issue ; it be something on which I hope all member of Parliament — and , even more important , their constituent — can agree . so let we collectively " can the Cones " , and keep the traffic flow as much as we practically can . I commend the Bill to the House . question put and agree to . order , that Mr Mark Francois , Mr Richard Holden , Greg Smith , Mrs Emma Lewell - Buck , Sir Desmond Swayne , Andrew Rosindell , Sir John Whittingdale , Lewis Cocking , Sir Bernard Jenkin , Andrew Griffith , Sir Roger Gale and Jim Shannon present the Bill . Mr Mark Francois accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 11 July 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 118 ) . Budget Resolutions Income Tax ( Charge ) Debate resume ( Order , 31 October ) . question again propose , that income tax be charge for the tax year 2025 - 26 . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . the first Labour Budget in 14 year — the first ever Budget deliver by a woman Chancellor — show the difference that this Labour Government be already make . we be fix the foundation of the public finance to bring the stability that our economy need , put more money into people ' s pocket after the bad Parliament for living standard on record , begin to turn the corner on our vital public service , with more appointment in the NHS and more teacher in our school , and make the long - term investment in infrastructure and skill that our country need in order to grow our economy and seize the job and opportunity of the future . in the Department for Work and Pensions , the message from this Budget be clear : we will tackle the unacceptable level of fraud that we have inherit , because every pound of taxpayer ' money must be wisely spend and go to those who need help the most . we will drive up opportunity in every corner of the country with our plan to get Britain work , because this Labour Government believe that work be the key to build a well life and to grow our economy . we have make a start on drive down poverty too , because , unlike Conservative Members , we know that child can not fulfil their potential without food in their belly and a roof over their head , and our country can not fulfil its potential when the talent of so many bright child and young people be be deny . get a grip on the public finance be the first step in deliver all these change . without strong foundation , we can not deliver a thriving economy , decent public service or sustainable increase in living standard for family and pensioner . we do not choose to inherit the mess that we find in the public finance and our public service , but we have choose to level with the public about the scale of the challenge and how we intend to deal with they . conservative Members have still not face up to their responsibility for the state in which they leave the country . there be a £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance this year , with billion of pound overspent on a fail asylum hotel system . new hospital , road and train station be announce , without the money to pay for they . vital compensation scheme for infected blood and the Horizon scandal be set up , without the fund to deliver they . the country ' s reserve be spend three time over . that be before we even get to the state of our public service . million of patient have be leave wait for NHS treatment , often in agony and pain . victim have be leave waiting month or even year for justice in our court . our prison be overflow , and our school literally crumble . as my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster have say , this could have be a Budget where we look at the state of the country but duck the difficult decision . we could have try to kid the voter , paper over the crack and then hope that something well somehow come along . but we choose not to do that , because that be precisely the approach that get we into this mess in the first place , and because in politic , as in life , you do not deal with a problem by ignore it , duck it or pander to it ; you deal with problem by face they head on . we have choose to get the public finance back on track , to protect the payslip of work people , to start turn the corner on our public service and to invest in the long - term infrastructure our country need . in order to deliver that , we have make tax change , which be never easy to do , and ask some business and wealthy people to pay some more . hand in hand with this balanced approach , however , the Chancellor have set out tough new productivity , efficiency and saving target of 2 % this year for every single Department . under this Labour Government , investment in our public service will always go hand in hand with reform , because we can not keep spend taxpayer ' money on the same problem without change the way we tackle they , and because public expectation and development in AI and new technology be transform the way people interact in many aspect of their life , and the public sector must respond to those change , too . the need for reform in our system of employment support and social security be urgent and it be real . I want to spell out clearly and honestly for the House the fact of the previous Government ' s legacy of failure . some £ 35 billion of taxpayer ' money have be lose to fraud and error since the pandemic — now stand at £ 10 billion a year . our employment rate be still not back to pre - pandemic level , make we unique in the G7 group of wealthy country , and not in a good way . we have near - record level of people trap out of work due to long - term sickness — a staggering 2 . 8 million people , with rate far higher in some part of the country such as the midland and the north — and 420 , 000 more household be predict to claim universal credit health benefit over the next five year , increase from a third to a half of all universal credit claim . that be the legacy of the Conservatives . one in eight of all our young people be not in education , employment or training , with all the terrible long - term consequence we know that bring . it be not just the economic cost of this failure that be unacceptable , with a predict £ 26 billion increase in sickness and disability benefit over the next five year . above all , there be the human cost to individual and community when million of people be deny the opportunity to work and earn a decent standard of living , to make connection , to get skill and to build chance for a well life , with all the benefit that that bring . we do not accept that as the future for our country or our fellow citizen . instead , we choose a different path . it start with our determination to deliver value for money for every pound of taxpayer ' money , so we will bring forward a new plan to drive down fraud and error in the welfare system . our new Fraud , Error and Debt Bill will update the Department for Work and Pensions ' power for the first time in 20 year , so that we can keep up with the new way that fraudster , include organised criminal gang , be use to take public money , and so that our power be bring into line with other public body such as his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs . we will use technology to alert we to people try to scam the system , and to prevent error from happen in the first place . we will recruit 3 , 000 more staff to crack down on fraudster , with a focus on serious case review , and we will bring in new power to recover debt , all with independent oversight and a guarantee that a human being will always take the final decision in any fraud case , to give everyone confidence in the system — something that the Conservatives utterly fail to do . many of we understand the need to have a more focused fraud law , and that be very important , but every other week people I represent come along to I and say that they have be overpay for their employment and support allowance , their personal independence payment or their disability living allowance . they find themselves in an incredibly difficult position , not because they be try to defraud or take money away from anyone ; it be just a simple issue of their get it wrong . what will be do to protect those people ? this be really important . we be go to have a new fraud law , but let we make sure that we protect the innocent people who make a mistake . I absolutely agree with the hon . Gentleman . the technology we will put in place will be precisely so that we drive down not only fraud but error in the system . he will know , for example , that we be trialle a new system for carer in which we text they if they be about to go over their allowance , so that we do not have the scandalous overpayment that cause such a problem under the previous Government . the second major reform that we will bring in be our plan to get Britain work again . our White Paper , which will be publish in the come week , will bring forward the big reform to employment support in a generation , back by an additional £ 240 million of investment . this will help we meet our ambition to achieve an 80 % employment rate and to turn what be in reality a Department for welfare into a genuine Department for work . first , we will create a new job and career service , overhaul our jobcentre so that they no long focus predominantly on monitor and assess benefit but be a genuine employment service work with employer , college , public service and local leader to help people to get work and get on in work . secondly , we will devolve power to Mayors and local area to join up the fragmented patchwork system of employment , skill and , crucially , health support to drive down economic inactivity and drive up employment , boost job and growth in every corner of the country — because the man , or even woman , in Whitehall do not know what be good in Leicester , Liverpool or Leeds . last , but by no mean least , we will bring forward our new youth guarantee , so that every young person be earn or learn — no ifs , no but — because we do not accept have a generation of young people without the skill or job they need to succeed , and we will never write off young people before they have even begin . our determination to help people get work and keep work do not stop there . I know only too well from my constituent and my friend how often woman in their 50 and beyond be now care for elderly and disabled relative but want to work at the same time . I be proud that we be give family carer the big ever boost to the amount they can earn while still receive carer ' s allowance . that will allow they to increase their hour to the equivalent of 16 hour at the national living wage , so that they can balance work and family life . this come on top of the independent review into the scandalous overpayment of carer ' s allowance that I have already announce , lead by the former chief executive of Disability Rights UK , Liz Sayce , to ensure that we learn the lesson from what happen so that it never happen again . as a lifelong champion of family carer , I be proud that we have make that announcement . our plan to get Britain work be crucial to drive up opportunity and drive down poverty — a key priority of this Labour Government . the fact that over 4 million child be now grow up poor , with more than 800 , 000 live in household force to rely on food bank , be a stain on our society . my right hon . friend the Education Secretary and I have already set out the framework for our bold , ambitious , cross - government strategy to tackle child poverty . we will publish the result in the spring , but we will not wait to act , particularly for those face the deep poverty . we have extend the household support fund and discretionary housing payment , with an additional £ 1 billion this year , so that local authority can help family and pensioner who face the great hardship . furthermore , we have introduce our new fair repayment rate to cap the level of debt repayment that can be take from universal credit , put an average of £ 420 a year into the pocket of 1 . 2 million of the poor household , which will lift thousand of child and family out of poverty . when I be chair of Feeding Leicester , food bank tell I that debt drive by universal credit deduction be one of the big reason why people have to use food bank , which be why I know this be such an important change . we be also substantially increase the income of pensioner who have work hard all their life and who deserve security in retirement . our commitment to the pension triple lock throughout this Parliament mean that spending on the state pension be forecast to rise by over £ 31 billion . this include a more than £ 470 rise in the new state pension from next April . unlike the previous Government , who leave over 800 , 000 pensioner miss out on the pension credit to which they be entitle , we be deliver the big - ever drive to increase uptake . for the first time , we be contact 120 , 000 people on housing benefit who may be eligible for pension credit and , to guarantee even great uptake , we will merge pension credit and housing benefit for new claimant from 2026 . the Conservatives first promise this in 2011 , but they never deliver . that be the difference a Labour Government make . there be still much more to do , but this Budget start to turn the corner : fix the foundation of our economy and public service , drive up opportunity and drive down poverty in every corner of the land . we be honest about the challenge we face and optimistic about the opportunity ahead . this be a real plan for real change . I commend this budget to the House . I call the Opposition spokesperson . the Labour party pledge at the last election to usher in a new form of politic base on transparency and integrity . when press , Labour Members rule out a large number of tax rise . one of these taxis , as the labour manifesto explicitly state , be national insurance : " we will not increase National Insurance " . yet , only a few short week later , what have happen in this Budget ? employer ' national insurance contribution have be raise , which be a direct breach of the labour manifesto . do not take my word for it — Paul Johnson , the head of the Institute for Fiscal Studies , have say exactly the same . of course , despite be at the scene of the crime , the Government have since hide behind their alibi that , somehow , put up employer ' national insurance contribution will have no impact on work people , but that be simply untrue . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? will my right hon . friend give way ? my right hon . friend be a sensible man to give way to , and I will do so in a moment . the Chief Secretary to the Treasury recently admit on Sky that put up national insurance for employer will directly impact work people — of course it will . the Office for Budget Responsibility lay out in black and white that the consequence will be over 50 , 000 few job , with about 70 % of the cost of this increase in taxation ultimately be bear by those who work , through low wage . be these not work people ? the Secretary of State mention her youth guarantee and the importance of youth . I simply observe that youth unemployment fall by over 40 % under the previous Government , whereas it rise by over 40 % under the last Labour Government . that be how successful the Labour party be . of course , because both the rate and the threshold have be increase , the national insurance increase will disproportionately impact those on low wage , include the young worker . I warmly congratulate the new shadow Chancellor on his appointment . it be richly deserve , give his tremendous work as Secretary of State for Work and Pensions in get people back to work . in open this debate , the Secretary of State say that she be only attack wealthy people . my right hon . friend the Member for Central Devon ( Mel Stride ) be talk about work people , so will he emphasise that our party stand four - square behind work farmer ? these people , with only 250 acre , just want to pass on their business to their son , but they be be cruelly attack by this Government . my right hon . friend be right that this be another broken promise . at the general election , the now Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs give an unequivocal guarantee to farmer across the country that there be no question of farm be bring into inheritance tax . there be a good reason for the exemption and relief , because if inheritance tax be levy on family farm that be pass down to another generation , those farm will have to be break up , with part sell off to pay the tax . I be glad that my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) mention this , because the OBR have say that , by 2030 , this measure will raise the princely sum of £ 520 million , which be enough to run the national health service for just one day . have a more modest sum ever raise so much misery ? I think not . the Chancellor assure we that she will not fiddle the figure by change the fiscal target , yet we have see the fiscal target change to allow this Government to borrow an additional £ 140 billion . this be not a good time for the Secretary of State to talk about pensioner , but she mention they at the end of her speech . they be so badly let down by the means - testing of the winter fuel payment , and they be not tell in advance to expect anything like it . ten million pensioner across the country will lose up to £ 300 as a consequence of this measure . the Government claim that only the wealthy , only the millionaire , will be affect , but two third of pensioner below the poverty line will have this benefit remove . I be grateful to the new shadow Chancellor for give way . I could be wrong , but be he not the Secretary of State who take through the legislation to suspend the triple lock — the one and only time it have be suspend — which have since cost pensioner £ 500 a year every year ? we fight for the " triple lock plus " in our manifesto , which would have spare million of pensioner from be drag into income tax , many for the first time , under this Government ' s arrangement . there be , as the hon . Gentleman know , particular circumstance in October 2022 , include inflation surge above 11 % . what be the broad effect of this Budget ? the tax burden will rise to the high level in the history of our country — high than in 1948 , when we first start to collect the datum . we will be borrow a staggering £ 140 billion over the next five year . what be the consequence of that , apart from pass on debt to future generation , who will have to pay it by way of high taxation in the future ? it be the crowding - out of private business investment , which this government say they be eager to drive up . if we look at OBR ' s forecast from the spring Budget last year and for inflation in every year under this Budget , it be high in every single year . why ? because there have be a huge fiscal splurge , particularly in the first two year of the forecast , that will require a monetary response , so interest rate will stay high for long . that will mean , the OBR estimate , an extra 0 . 25 % on mortgage — or over £ 400 extra for the average family , up and down the country . accord to the OBR ' s forecast , wage will stagnate across the period , with low real household disposable income than under the spring forecast , when the conservative party be in government . I be surprised that the Secretary of State raise the subject of living standard . the Joseph Rowntree Foundation estimate : " the average family will be £ 770 bad off in real term by October 2029 compare with today . " I be also surprised that she raise the issue of poverty . when we be in government , we face so many lecture from Labour Members , while we be bring poverty down — the number of pensioner in absolute poverty fall by 200 , 000 . what about child ? the number of child in poverty fall by 100 , 000 in total . I will come to the record of this Government in a moment , but first I give way to the Secretary of State . figure from the Department that the right hon . Gentleman use to be responsible for show clearly that 700 , 000 more child now live in relative poverty after housing cost . do he accept that ? yes or no ? as the right hon . Lady know full well , it be accept that the key measure be absolute poverty after housing cost . she can not flit between one measure and another when it suit she . the reality be that it be project that 100 , 00 more child and 300 , 000 more adult will be in poverty as a consequence of the Budget . on that point , will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? how can I finally resist the hon . Gentleman , who be just itch to make some point about integrity ? the Floor be his . the shadow Chancellor raise the issue of integrity and he talk about poverty . many disabled people live in poverty . when he be Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , he tell the House that there would be no investigation into the Department for Work and Pensions for unlawful treatment of disabled people . do he owe this House , or do he owe disabled people , an apology ? I stand by our record when I be Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , particularly on the support that the Department give to the disabled , not least the result that we achieve in encourage and help they into work , which be the well possible outcome . when there have be such a perpetration of deceit , there must be the alibi — the smokescreen — which be , of course , the fictitious , confected black hole of £ 22 billion . Labour Members rub their hand in glee when the OBR say it would be look into the matter . it report back , on the day of the Budget , and what do it find ? it find that it be not able to legitimise that black hole of £ 22 billion , and come up with a figure for in - year fiscal pressure that be below half that . it observe that if it have be focus on that figure at the time of the spring Budget , conversation would have be hold , and it be conceivable that the number would have be small still . from our experience in government , we know that it be quite normal practice to manage in - year fiscal pressure , and to net off the underspend against the overspend . in reality , this black hole be " a dead parrot " . it have cease to be . if it be not nail to its perch , it would be " push up the daisy " . far from be just " shag out " after a prolonged squark , Madam Deputy Speaker , it be dead : the black hole be " an ex - parrot " . I be grateful to the shadow Chancellor for give way . base on his performance , everyone on the Government Benches heartily welcome his promotion . do he accept that the OBR say in the letter he mention that its forecast would have be " materially different " ? I have just explain exactly what the OBR say . it say that it do not legitimise the black hole — the £ 22 billion , which have be repeat yet again from the Government Front Bench . opportunity be miss in this Budget , not least around drive up productivity . we know that Labour government spend money . we know that Labour government tax people a lot — that be what they do . what they do not do be spend the money with any string attach . there have be a 14 % pay rise for train driver and 22 % for junior doctor , but not one suggestion that there might be improvement in productivity to accompany that spending . that be unlike the conservative party when we be in office : under my right hon . friend the Member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) , we have a very clear , fully fund plan for the national health service and a long - term workforce plan to drive up productivity . let I come to the issue of welfare . it be gratify to hear the Secretary of State confirm that the Labour party be go ahead with some of the more important reform that we bring forward , such as that to the work capability assessment . indicate dissent . the Minister for Employment shake her head , but my understanding be that while the Government may say they will make some change , they be quite happy to take the saving that be bake into the OBR ' s forecast . the Secretary of State be right to clamp down on fraud , but it be important that she do not misrepresent the fact that the approach she be take be exactly the same as the approach we be bring forward to do that . the reality be that some DWP budget be grow to an extent that they need to be arrest in order for we to have a successful economy . if we be able to hold the number of people of work age with a health or disability component to their benefit at the level it be now for the next five year , there would be a saving of about £ 14 billion ; if we be able to get it back to where it be before the pandemic , over £ 30 billion would be save . when the conservative party be in government , we have a clear plan to begin to address that issue . we have hear nothing from the Government about how they will tackle that fundamental fact . what we have have from the Government on welfare expenditure be the announcement that the welfare cap will be set , at the end of the scorecard period , at 5 % above the OBR ' s forecast for spend on those benefit . that be not a restraint ; that be permission — an invitation — to spend ever more on welfare without hit the cap . the Government have no plan and the taxpayer will continue to pay for it . so what do we have to show for this Budget ? compare with the spring : low growth , low living standard , low wage , high taxis , high borrowing , and increase interest rate and mortgage . this be a Budget of broken promise , and when the dust have finally settle and this lot have go , as we step over the fallen — the former farmer , the pensioner , the one - time businesspeople , the poor and the vulnerable — there we will find the shattered remain of the work people of this country , betray by a party that lie to they , and they will never forget it . rise — order . member can observe how many people want to speak in the debate , so follow the completion of all Front - Bench speech , I will impose an immediate six - minute time limit to start with . I call Gill Furniss . back in July Britain vote to turn the corner on 14 year of failure at the hand of the conservative party : 14 year of unfunded tax cut for the wealthy , 14 year of austerity that leave work people to pick up the bill and 14 year of our public service crumble . this Budget be a breath of fresh air that deliver on what people vote for , with £ 1 . 4 billion to rebuild school , £ 30 million for breakfast club and an extra 2 million nhs appointment . today I want to speak about an issue that be very close to my heart : further education . before enter Parliament , I work in further education and see at first hand the transformational impact it can have . I have see adult of all age , some of whom have struggle with even basic literacy and numeracy , make major stride forward and go on to university and high - quality job . a thriving fe sector be also vital to meet the challenge of the future . Decarbonisation and new technology , like AI , be already revolutionise our workforce , and the CBI have find that nine in 10 people will need to reskill in this decade alone . we be in the midst of a skill shortage , with business struggle to fill highly skilled position and instead recruit from abroad . these be no long the skill of the future but the skill of today , and we already have the infrastructure ready to go to meet the challenge , with hundred of college fill with thousand of expert teach countless subject . my constituency be home to two exemplary fe institution : the Sheffield college and Longley Park sixth form . I pay tribute to all their staff , who go above and beyond to give student the good support possible . there be exciting development happen in Sheffield . the Sheffield college will soon open its new advanced technology centre — a state - of - the - art facility that will play a key role in meet the skill need of employer , accelerate our green skill strategy , and support growth in the local and regional economy . the success of the sector be all the more impressive when we consider the funding challenge it have endure . on the last government ' s watch , spend per college student fall by 5 % in real term , but this Government have show that they understand their value , and I be so pleased to see in the Budget the commitment of an extra £ 300 million for further education . this government be fill with expertise in further education . I be delighted to see Baroness Smith of Malvern appoint as Minister for Skills . her wealth of knowledge and experience mean that she will be a strong voice for the value of further education in the skill agenda . I also welcome the step that the Government be take to deliver on our manifesto commitment to create a flexible growth and skill levy ; the investment of £ 40 million will help to ensure that apprenticeship , with decent employment at the end , be available for people of all skillset . employer have long call for reform of the apprenticeship levy , which many have find to be inflexible and unfit for purpose . we need a new system that work for employer and worker alike , and which have further education at its heart . I be pleased that this Government be take immediate action in this area and back it up with real investment . this will be a major step forward in a new relationship between employer , the workforce and further education — all work together to build a workforce that be fit for the future . this government ' s steadfast focus be deliver economic growth in every corner of the country — something that have be lack in my constituency for far too long . I look forward to the establishment of Skills England to help upskill the workforce nationwide , work alongside our fantastic further education sector to succeed . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the fact be that the new Government have inherit an economic shamble thank to the previous Government . the Office for Budget Responsibility identify a yawning £ 10 billion gap in the finance — that can not be dispute . I be proud that we have a cradle - to - grave welfare state , but there be a couple of area that I fear the Government fail to tackle in the Budget . failure to tackle the two - child cap will leave 1 . 6 million child still in need , so I hope the Government will address that as a matter of urgency . in respect of the winter fuel allowance , I be still get dozen of email from resident who be unable to claim support because they be just above the threshold , and who be worried as the winter start to kick in . again , I hope that the Government will come forward with some amelioration to support those who most need it : our pensioner in need . one area of the Budget I particularly welcome be the investment in our health service . for we Liberal Democrats , our NHS be a cornerstone of society and a way of improve great Britain . clearly , we would not have go about it in the same way — we would have draw down money from big bank and giant tech — and the way it be be do will result in some challenge , which I will come to later . in my constituency , Torbay hospital remain highly challenge because we do not know where we be as far as the Government ' s programme for renew hospital be concern . only 6 % of the hospital be currently fit for purpose , and there be almost 700 sewage leak , some which have an impact on clinical area and therefore affect the hospital ' s ability to serve our community . I can not believe that the Secretary of State will allow a hospital with regular sewage leak impact resident to continue in its current state , so I look forward to the confirmation of funding for Torbay hospital . GPs be the service that many resident come up against when reach out to our NHS , yet the change to national insurance contribution be set to hit they hard . they be small business , and it seem that they be the canary in the coalmine for a number of other small business across the United Kingdom . in correspondence with I , they highlight that there could be cut in service and that their plan to grow their service to the community will be seriously affect . as colleague have state , the elephant in the room — the issue that the Budget fail to address — be social care . I be concerned that the Government have to date fail to deal with social care , but we look forward to work with they — we want to work across the party — to drive a proper way forward for social care . the expand earning threshold settlement for carer ' s allowance be extremely welcome , but the cliff edge need sort as a matter of urgency . elsewhere in the social care sector , I have be contact by company such as Bay Care , which give domiciliary support and be worried about the impact of the change to nic on its ability to support people , as well as nursing and other residential care service that be on the edge of viability and be also impact by that change . over the weekend , I reach out to probably 15 business across Torbay to gauge the impact of the Budget on they . they be disappoint that business rate have not receive the reform that we Liberal Democrats have hope for . it need root - and - branch reform ; tinker with it be not the answer . business have see their utility bill treble . a number of business be struggle with covid debt that remain outstanding . a manufacturer — we do not have many of those in Torbay — tell I that he be fearful that the business ' s top office elsewhere in the world will ask it to consider offshore to Taiwan some of the manufacturing that happen in Torbay at the moment . I be particularly interested to hear from business in the hospitality sector , which we have a lot of in the west of England . hotel and B & Bs be all really concerned that we will see a significant reduction in employment , and Paignton zoo tell I that the national insurance threshold be lower to £ 5 , 000 will hit they hard . I fear that these national insurance proposal will rip the heart out of the tourism industry in the west of England . I call Harpreet Uppal to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a privilege to deliver my maiden speech in this very important Budget debate . it be the honour of my life to represent my home town of Huddersfield . I would like to start by pay tribute to my predecessor , Barry Sheerman , who serve the people of Huddersfield for 45 year . I be sure that he will not mind I say that he be the Member of Parliament for long than I have be alive . I particularly commend Barry for his role as the Chair of the Education Committee , for his instrumental campaign to improve seatbelt law , and for his work on air quality and clean energy . he also work with local mum Stacey Rodgers to improve gas safety after the sad death of her young son Dominic by carbon monoxide poisoning . Barry leave a lasting legacy of public service . Huddersfield have long be a town of innovation , resilience and diversity , with young people look for opportunity , worker fight for well condition and wage , local business support growth in the local economy , and family seek security and hope for their child . for century , Huddersfield be renowned across the world for its production of high - quality textile , stand as a national symbol of innovation , hard work and prosperity . when my dad first arrive in west Yorkshire from India in the 1960 , he go to work in the textile mill , and he spend most of his career as a weaver at the Huddersfield firm C & J Antich & Sons . the " make in Huddersfield " brand in textile continue to represent excellence . I could not make this speech without mention Dixons Milk Ices — not ice cream , but milk ice . for generation , this family - run business have be raise Huddersfield ' s child and adult on its iconic milk ice , and that include I . Huddersfield be home to many sporting triumph . the famous meeting at the George Hotel in 1895 lead to the creation of the great sport : rugby league . we be deeply proud of that heritage and of our Huddersfield Giants . between 1923 and 1926 , Huddersfield Town football club be one of the first club to be crown league champion in three successive season — yes , Madam Deputy Speaker , this be ahead of Arsenal . more recently , Huddersfield native Caden Cunningham celebrate a silver medal at the Paris Olympics . we be very proud of he . our renowned Huddersfield Choral Society and Lawrence Batley theatre reflect the town ' s deep cultural heritage . the Huddersfield and Deighton carnival light up our town on an annual basis , and it have be great to see Huddersfield Mela back too . our interfaith forum bring together people of all faith and none , as do our church , gurdwara , mosque , temple and community building . of course , we be the birthplace — share with Colne Valley — of Harold Wilson . his statue stand proudly in front of Huddersfield ' s spectacular train station to remind we of the difference that a man from Huddersfield make as Prime Minister : the creation of the Open University ; the white heat of technology ; the abolition of the death penalty ; and social reform in education , health and housing , and in gender and race equality . we have a lot to be proud of . but I also know from speak with resident on the campaign trail that Huddersfield , like many town across the country , face challenge , and there be no doubt that our town centre need a bit of TLC . I be therefore delighted that last week the Chancellor announce commitment to secure funding for the trans - Pennine upgrade , huddersfield open market and the Penistone line . I know that the previous Government share in that . construction be also under way to improve our town centre , alongside the national health innovation campus of the University of Huddersfield . our potential be huge , but that growth have to be feel in all corner of Huddersfield . it have to be about skill as well as infrastructure , and the people of Huddersfield must be front and centre . I be therefore delighted that we be increase the minimum wage and see increase funding for our NHS . it be also important that we finally fix our social care system . my late mum be a care worker , and I see the difference that she make every day . we must now fight for her colleague — [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] — to ensure that they have the pay and condition that they deserve ; I have to pull myself together there . I be glad that this be a priority for our Labour Government . teenager and young people across Huddersfield and the country have be deal a tough hand than previous generation . we must work to halve knife crime and youth violence , but beyond police the focus should be on create positive environment where young people can grow and thrive . the youth guarantee will be really important . I will work with local organisation such as Positive Steps and Conscious Youth , which do fantastic work on the ground . as I speak about child and young people , I be also think of child in Gaza , Ukraine and Sudan . we must use every tool in front of we to ensure that young people in all country affect by war and conflict be able to grow up in peace . my journey to this House be one that speak to the value of opportunity and fairness . like many in Huddersfield , my family work hard to give I the chance to succeed . at Fartown high school , my teacher Mrs Perry push I and my ambition , and a Labour Government help I on my way . I be determined to repay that debt . it be a great pleasure to follow the hon . member for Huddersfield ( Harpreet Uppal ) , who make a heartfelt and move maiden speech . she will clearly be a doughty champion for her constituent in the year to come , and I wish she well in this House . it have be barely five day since the Chancellor lay her first Budget before the House , and it be bad than anyone could have imagine . far from protect work people , it have punish worker , business , entrepreneur and investor — the very people who help we to prosper as a country . it have spook the market . the cost of borrowing have go up significantly , and debt interest will be high as a result . so much for restore stability . the Institute of Directors describe it as a " painful Budget for business " , and the OBR have downgrade its growth projection for the next five year , and say that inflation will creep up again , which in turn mean that interest rate will stay high for long , as will people ' s mortgage . the IFS have warn that Labour ' s national insurance hike will hit low - pay job the hard , and will force firm to cut salary , cut hire and raise price . so much for protect work people . astoundingly , for a Government who claim that they be all about economic growth , while private company have see their taxis hike overnight , the public sector will be protect and give much more funding . public service be important — no one would claim otherwise — but the wealth of this nation be build not by the Government but by private enterprise and entrepreneur . it be the innovation , ingenuity and enterprise of the private sector that create opportunity , growth and prosperity . the Government should recognise and reward it , not stifle and punish it . this be a Budget of broken promise . during the election , the Labour party promise voter 50 time that it would not raise taxis on work people . the Prime Minister promise it . the Chancellor promise it . the entire Front Bench promise it . indeed , it be there for all to see , in black and white in their manifesto , but despite all their promise , they have raise taxis by £ 40 billion to an all - time high . that have be do on the back of work people , on the back of those who own a business , on the back of those who take risk , invest in the UK and create job , on the back of those who have work hard and save to own property or share , on the back of those who work in agriculture , and on the back of those who send their child to independent school . the Labour party do not think that those people be work people , but they be , and they will not forget it . none of this should come as a surprise , of course . we know , give the farcical verbal knot that they have tie themselves in over the past few week , that Labour Front Benchers can not even define what a work person be . the british people have be betray , and everyone can see what the Labour Government have do . it be very clear that they have plan all along to jack up our taxis but would not come clean . they make all sort of promise during the election — they be go to steady the ship and achieve the high sustained growth in the G7 — and say that all their policy be " fully cost " and " fully fund . " however , as soon as they get into power , they invent the so - call black hole , which no one believe exist , and which even the OBR have refuse to legitimise . they have waste no time in fiddle the rule so that they can borrow billion more for their lavish spending , subject the british people to misery through record tax rise . the british people will not forget what be be do to they . those high - tax , high - spend policy will not protect work people . the prioritisation of trade union donor over small business and pensioner will not protect work people . the deliberate punishment of risk taker and job creator will not protect work people . but at this stage , it be not too late . it be not too late to apologise to the british public and rescue they from this disaster . it be not too late to listen to people who have experience of the real world — those who have set up their own business , take risk and employ people , and create wealth and growth . it be not too late to change course , so the Government should show some humility and do so . I call Sadik Al - Hassan to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate hon . friend who have make excellent and move maiden speech so far — they have set a high bar today and over the past few week — but we have , as they say , save the good until almost last . I thank the people of North Somerset for the trust that they have place in I . I promise they that I will not , for a moment , stop fight to fulfil the promise that I have make to they . as a pharmacist , I campaign on a platform of rebuild the NHS . have work in pharmacy across the area over the past two decade , I have see at first hand the decline of community pharmacy in many town across the country . that be why I be proud to see in the Budget such a strong commitment from my right hon . friend the Chancellor to rebuild our NHS , with the large increase in funding — outside the pandemic — since 2010 . no one on the Labour Benches doubt the enormity of the task ahead , or the challenge that we may encounter along the way , but the Chancellor have put we on a road to renewal with this Budget , and I be sure that many of my colleague in the healthcare sector will be grateful to she for that . North Somerset be more than just where Somerset give up and Bristol begin . we be the home of the first mass production of penicillin , of one of the old cinema in the UK , and — perhaps our proud achievement — of the discovery of the Ribena blackcurrant . in the west of my constituency lie Portishead , know across the country for its beautiful marina and lively fish and chip trade , which , rumour have it , stretch all the way back to the town ' s roman founder . next , I pay tribute to Clevedon in the south of my constituency . as a pharmacist , I take great pride in tell the House that Clevedon have the distinct honour of be the site of the first large - scale production of penicillin , enable its use as a vitally important medicine in world war two and undoubtedly save countless life . although the world of pharmacy have mature somewhat since then , Clevedon continue its proud pharmacological heritage with a number of truly outstanding local pharmacy that do the community proud , such as the Well pharmacy , where I have the distinct honour of work not too long ago . finally , but by no mean least of the major town in North Somerset , there be of course Nailsea . a little - know fact about Nailsea be that it be so name because at one point it be an island , which be somewhat surprising give how far inland it be . leave behind its ancient island status , Nailsea really begin to boom in the 19th century , when it become home to one of the large glasswork in the country , relic of which be still treasure by collector across the world . although all those who have have the pleasure of visit North Somerset agree that it be a beautiful and blessed place , it be also an unequal place . neighbourhood in my constituency be among the most and least deprive area of England . among our countless idyllic village be Long Ashton , the birthplace of Ribena — a drink much belove across the country , not least by my child . another of our gem be Pill , which , despite the name , do not have a pharmaceutical history . at one point , Pill ' s small footprint boast 21 pub , which would no doubt have celebrate the Chancellor ' s cut to alcohol duty at the weekend . no tour of our green and pleasant land would be complete without Tyntesfield , which be , in my unbiased opinion , the great National Trust site — and that be really say something . that beautiful georgian house be a delight for all across the south - west . North Somerset boast the unique honour of be home not only to one of the busy airport in the country , but to a major port . those twin pillar of infrastructure in the south - west be the foundation of our local economy . in recent year , Bristol airport overtake Glasgow airport to become the eighth busy airport in the UK . the Royal Portbury dock be no slouch either , handle over 7 million tonne of cargo a year . I be sure that both have a long and prosperous future ahead of they . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Dr Liam Fox . although I may not have share his view on Europe , I know that we be align in our mutually hold passion for the North Somerset constituency , which he represent for 32 year and through eight election — a record that many of we who be new to the House be no doubt keen to replicate . my predecessor be particularly proud of his championing of Down ' s syndrome , for which he shepherd a private member ' s Bill through Parliament . no maiden speech on North Somerset would be complete without a mention of the Portishead railway line . first open in 1867 , the line prove a vital link in connect the people of North Somerset to Bristol , and then to the wide country . for nearly 25 year now , the campaign to reopen the line have rage fiercely in my constituency , and I want to reassure my constituent that I intend to fight tooth and nail to see that project across the line after decade of false start . I first get into politic as a town councillor in Emersons Green , only for my wife to become a district councillor shortly thereafter . now that I be an MP , I dread to think how she will one - up I this time . [ laughter . ] I jest , and in reality , during the long week of campaign this summer , my dad , wife and two child prove to be my bedrock , provide I with an endless source of strength , and I be and always will be eternally grateful to they . I thank the House for indulge I and the people of North Somerset for put their trust in I . every day I will come to this Chamber and fight to put North Somerset on the map and deliver for all those who call that beautiful green pocket of England home . one should never underestimate one ' s wife . I congratulate the hon . member for North Somerset ( Sadik Al - Hassan ) on a powerfully deliver maiden speech and wish he well in this House . I thank he for his kind word about his predecessor , Dr Liam Fox , who be a true champion of this House . the Budget of broken promise come as a hammer blow to community up and down the land , but before I get into the detail of that , and in the interest of balance and fairness , I would like to thank the Chancellor for one of the measure in it . follow FairFuelUK ' s campaign , the Sun ' s " keep it down " campaign , and indeed , the campaign lead by my hon . friend the Member for Meriden and Solihull East ( Saqib Bhatti ) , the freeze on fuel duty , which the last Conservative Government implement for so many year , will continue . it be very apparent to I that petrol and diesel be overtax as it be , and work people up and down the land absolutely depend on be able to afford a tank of fuel to get the kid to school , go to work and go about their daily life . as a request ahead of next year ' s Budget , I ask the Chancellor to consider fix a double taxation in the system : the point at which vat be apply to petrol and diesel . at the moment , it be apply after fuel duty , rather than before ; we therefore pay vat not just on the petrol and diesel itself , but on the fuel duty that have be put on top of it . there be so much to dislike in this Budget of broken promise , begin with the increase in employer ' national insurance contribution , which be a direct tax on job . it be a tax on small and large business alike , and it be a tax on our general practitioner — I be sure I be not alone in this House in already have correspondence on this issue with many of the GPs in my constituency . there be the perversity of put bus fare up to £ 3 , scrap the Conservatives ' £ 2 bus fare cap . work people up and down the land rely on bus ; it be only in Labour ' s world that put the bus fare up mean get more people to work . the £ 40 billion tax hike be go to lead to high inflation , low wage and increase Government debt . for my constituency of Mid Buckinghamshire , though , the very bad part of this Budget be the full - frontal attack on our farmer and agricultural community . the change to agricultural property relief will cause family farm up and down the land to have to sell such a huge proportion of their farm in order to meet that tax bill that those farm themselves may well become unviable . I commend the hon . gentleman on that comment . every farmer in Northern Ireland will be impact by this change . the Ulster Farmers ' Union — I declare an interest as a member — have say that the change be universally discredit and universally opposed . the threshold for agricultural relief for farm should have be high — perhaps £ 4 million or £ 5 million , not £ 1 million , which bring everybody into the equation . as ever , the hon . Gentleman have hit the nail exactly on the head . in its briefing , which I be sure all member have receive , the National Farmers Union point out that the Treasury ' s own figure on who will get catch up in the APR change be fundamentally wrong , because they include a lot of very small - scale area — perhaps a private residence with one or two field or a very small number of livestock . that be not what any of we would define as a work farm . in reality , when all those family farm be bring into the number , the vast majority of our food producer who contribute to food supply chain will get catch up in those change . when the Chancellor be on the BBC on Sunday morning , she say that the individual claim for agricultural property relief be now £ 1 million , but if a farm be own by two people , that allowance could be transfer to the other person . some confusion need to be iron out here , because unlike the nil - rate band and residential nil - rate band , the policy paper entitle " Summary of reform to agricultural property relief and business property relief " publish on 30 October this year state that " any unused allowance will not be transferable between spouse and civil partner . " perhaps in sum up the Minister can clear up that confusion cause by the Chancellor on the Kuenssberg show . the APR change be not the only change that will hammer our farming family and agricultural community . I be sure there be a joke somewhere along the line of " when be a pick - up truck not a pick - up truck ? " , but it be no laugh matter for farmer . for they , it be just a basic bit of equipment that they need to operate , but this Government be hammer they on the cost of that equipment if it happen to have rear seat . as I raise early today in this House during the urgent question , the Government ' s carbon tax will put up the price of fertiliser by between £ 50 and £ 75 a tonne . either that be go to have a direct impact on the cost of food , or the Government be ask farmer — already operate on incredibly tight margin , often with no profit at all — just to swallow that extra cost . I urge they to reconsider . other measure in the Budget that be clearly wrong and the Government must u - turn on include vat on private school fee . the vast majority of parent I talk to in my constituency who choose to send their child to independent school scrimp and save and make sacrifice in order to give their child that opportunity . an additional 20 % in fee make that unaffordable for those parent , and when I talk to representative of independent school in my constituency some be say that they can see a path to have to close their door . I know that a lot of Labour Members would probably quite like that outcome , but the reality be that it will be deny child opportunity and deny parent choice , and it will have the knock - on impact of class size in my kid ' school — and , I be sure , every other hon . member ' s kid ' school in the state sector — go up . that will cause overcrowding and put pressure on our state school . this be all before I come on to the other problem in this Budget , not least the cruel attack on our pensioner through the withdrawal of the winter fuel payment . lastly , just to prove how bizarre and simply unserious the Government be about value for money , they have choose someone as their new value - for - money tsar who be inextricably link to one of the most inefficient and wasteful project ever to come out of the british state : hs2 . how on earth can someone so link to that project be consider an arbiter of value for money ? we now come to another maiden speech . I call Andrew Ranger . Diolch yn fawr , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be grateful for the opportunity to make my maiden speech during this important debate . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) , and also to follow the great maiden speech from my hon . friend the Members for Huddersfield ( Harpreet Uppal ) and for North Somerset ( Sadik Al - Hassan ) . I stand here humble and privileged to be the Member for Wrexham , and to serve every single one of my constituent to the good of my ability — they deserve nothing less . the first Labour Budget for nearly 15 year be a major part of how this Government will put the interest of the people of Wrexham , Wales and the UK first . it be fix the foundation of the economy and the public service that we all rely on ; increase pay for thousand of worker in Wrexham ; make long - await improvement to worker ’ right ; provide more support for carer and struggle family ; address historical injustice such as the mineworker ' pension scheme and the infected blood scandal ; and ensure the safety of coal tip in Wales . during the election , I promise my constituent that I would fight for fair funding for Wales . this Budget will deliver the large settlement for Wales since the start of devolution , all alongside a programme of investment in our infrastructure and our workforce and to support business . as someone who have both run my own business and help other to start up and run theirs , I know that most of all they want stability and the ability to plan ahead . as much as anyone else they rely on good infrastructure and public service alongside a skilled and productive workforce . this Budget be the start of ensure that we deliver that . indeed , on the same day as the Budget be announce , new investment be make in my local football club , which member may have hear of , and in Wrexham Lager — dare I say the world ' s good lag , and the UK ' s old lager brewery . many will have see and hear a lot about Wrexham in recent year , but I be sure there be those who want to know more . Wrexham be situate in the north - east of Wales , on the border with north - west England . follow the recent boundary change , my constituency be much change after it inherit most of the old Clwyd South constituency . proud of our Welsh identity , which be core to the people of Wrexham , we also have strong link to the north - west of England , both socially and economically . Wrexham have a long history of coalmining , iron and steelmaking ; those be the rock on which the community be build , and which in many way still influence it to this day . the community that build up around those industry form a circle of village around the city , with the roll hill of the low Dee valley to the east — dominate by farming and rural community — and the wilder and more dramatic landscape of the foothill of the clwydian mountain range to the west . the coal and steel industry be long go , but their importance to Wrexham be not forget . great community organisation such as the Wrexham Miners Project ensure that the story of Wrexham ' s past be keep alive and pass on to young and future generation . ninety year ago this year , one of the UK ' s bad ever coalmine disaster happen in Wrexham , at Gresford in 1934 , when 266 man lose their life and only 11 of the body be recover . this be a time when profit be put before people and worker ’ right and safety be a secondary consideration . every year , the community come together to remember those tragic event that shape the life of so many other . community be at the heart of Wrexham — it be its strength . so many people and organisation help other every day and take pride in the place where they live . there be so many to mention , from Wrexham Litter Pickers — a wonderful volunteer group who work hard to keep our street tidy — to place such as Lle Hapus that bring people together , and so many other . Wrexham have welcome people from around the world who have choose to come and live there . we have a strong polish community , which have be in Wrexham since the second world war , a thriving portuguese community , and many other who make a significant contribution . Wrexham be now a major manufacturing centre , with many well - know international brand base in the city , such as Kellogg ' s , JCB and other . our local brewing industry have see a resurgence in recent year , with Wrexham Lager once again active and export across the world , alongside the like of the Magic Dragon Brewery and other , plus hundred of small business , which be the backbone of our economy . Wrexham be also home to many festival , such as Focus Wales , and we look forward to welcome the National Eisteddfod back to Wrexham next year . we also celebrate strong military link , with an Army barrack still locate in the city and a proud history of service . of course , I could not talk about Wrexham and not mention football . Wrexham association football club be the third old professional association football club in the world , and our home ground , the Racecourse , be the world ' s old international football stadium that still host international match . much in the spotlight recently , the club have an illustrious history . I know that certain member of the House be Arsenal supporter , and in Wrexham we still take great pride in knock out the then first division champion from the FA cup in 1992 and earn a reputation as giant killer . of course , today Wrexham be a team transform , since Hollywood star Ryan Reynolds and Rob McElhenney buy the club a few year ago . the difference they have make to the club and to Wrexham in just a short time be remarkable — back in the Football League after a 15 - year absence , our first league title in 45 year , and back - to - back promotion . before I end , I would like to pay tribute to my predecessor . Sarah Atherton be the Conservative Member for Wrexham until the election this year . she be the only conservative ever to represent Wrexham and the first woman to do so . I also pay tribute to she for the work she do for veteran . Simon Baynes give great service to his constituent in Clwyd South . finally , I pay tribute to Ian Lucas , my labour predecessor , who serve in this House for 18 year , often sit on the Benches wear a Wrexham AFC tie , serve as a Minister and shadow Minister , and on Select Committees , most latterly on an inquiry into disinformation and social medium . Diolch yn fawr , Madam Deputy Speaker . rise — order . after the next speaker at six minute , I will drop the limit to three minute each . what a great privilege it be to be sit on the Back Benches and able to make a contribution freely after 12 year on the Front Bench , as a parliamentary private Secretary or Minister . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Wrexham ( Andrew Ranger ) for his maiden speech and acknowledge what a wonderful experience it be to visit Wrexham about 10 month ago , as part of the place for growth work that I be involve in in the Cabinet Office . I hope that I can use the freedom I now have to speak candidly about some of the experience I have in government . I want to make some remark about that experience and the legacy of the last five year , talk about growth enablement , make some observation about some of the Budget measure relate to that matter , and also speak for a few moment about unforeseen risk and my concern about whether the Budget will give we the space as a country to deal with those risk . five year ago , an election be call , with an outcome a few week later — I certainly do not think that three month after that we would be shut down the economy because of covid . I be in the Treasury with my right hon . friend the Member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , and we quickly have to institute the bounce back loan and the furlough scheme — exceptional infusion of cash for public service to keep the economy go . consequentially , tax level have to rise , and of course we have a spirited debate this year about those level of taxation . those of we who have be through several election recognise that , give the politic of election , there be a trade - off between candour and obfuscation . I observe that , after this Budget , the gap be wide than normal , and the assertion about the £ 22 billion black hole have not be legitimise . I look forward to address some of those issue on the Treasury Committee in the come day . the Government ' s core argument , though , be that there be a level of investment require to secure growth through improvement in productivity and by deal with the lack of investment in recent year . I wish they well with that , because it be in the interest of our whole economy to see great productivity , but I be profoundly concerned about some of the choice that have be make . there seem to be a surge of investment in the next two year , but serious question about the settlement for non - protect Departments thereafter . I be concern about the decision make on public sector wage settlement and the precedent deem to be give for other workforce in subsequent year to seek great settlement without conditionality . unless we drive high productivity in the public sector , as well as encourage investment in the private sector , we will not see the growth that we hope for . I be also worried about the cost — nearly £ 5 billion — of the Employment Rights Bill , and about the tax increase for those who employ people in this country . but I wish the Government well . the theme of today ' s debate be some of the reform need to look after the interest of work people . we have see a surge in the number of working - age people who be not in gainful employment . about 12 year ago , we decide in this House , rightly , to ensure parity of esteem between those experience mental health problem and those with physical health problem . but in truth , our benefit system have not adequately interrogate how to deal with intermittent mental health problem . we will have to work together constructively for the right settlement to get those people back into work . we must put the emphasis on what people can do , rather than what they can not do , and ensure that people who be partially fit for work be encourage back into work . finally , I want to address our capacity , far to this Budget , to deal with shock . in February 2022 , we think we be come out of covid . I be at a meeting in my neighbouring constituency of Andover , and Putin ' s Ukraine incursion happen . we have massive inflation and have to find £ 90 billion overnight . my concern be that there be not enough capacity to deal with the shock that we could see in a very uncertain world — the energy shock might occur again . I want to be as constructive as I can be from where I now sit — that be a responsibility of his Majesty ' s loyal opposition — but I be concerned that a number of the decision in this Budget will not lay the foundation for the more productive , high - growth economy that be expect and want , and I be very concerned about there not be enough in reserve for what we may face . the theme of today ' s debate be the effect of the budget on work people . in the UK , it be estimate that 17 million working day be lose each year due to alcohol - relate sickness . it be not just day lose ; it be also decrease productivity , because alcohol abuse can lead to employee arrive late for work and be absent more often . some workplace culture encourage drink — I think on that point , colleague , we have to take a look at our own workplace . as we sit here , imagine for a moment that every seat in the Chamber be full but that , instead of see our colleague , we could see the face of those lose to alcohol harm . that be the reality : every week , the equivalent of this entire Chamber die because of alcohol . just before the election be call , I be inform that as a district , Lancaster have the high rate of alcohol - relate death in England . that lead I to look more into the issue in the hope of find solution to it . I discover that since 2010 , death from alcohol across the UK have rise by 42 % . one of the main reason be that alcohol have become much more affordable , due to successive government cut alcohol duty rate — short - sighted and naive decision making that be out of step with the evidence that have come from expert for year . the knock - on effect on our public finance and wide economy be clear . the Institute of Alcohol Studies recently find that alcohol harm cost our society more than £ 27 billion a year . fortunately , however , there be also abundant evidence about what work to reduce alcohol consumption and harm , while raise much - need revenue for vital public service . the World Health Organisation identifie tackle alcohol affordability as the most effective and cost - effective way of reduce alcohol harm across the world . alcohol duty be well place to do that , and have the advantage of also raise revenue for the Treasury . the duty revenue should cover the cost of harm , but currently it cover barely half the cost of the harm to society . my plea to those on the Government Front Bench be that they stop placate the multi - billion - pound alcohol industry under the guise of help pub . almost every time duty rate have be cut , Chancellors have proclaim it as a victory for pub — but that simply be not true . it help supermarket far more , allow they to maintain much cheap price on alcohol . the only time in recent decade that that gap do not grow be under the last Labour Government , which introduce a duty escalator , increase duty above inflation each year . during that period , the death rate from alcohol steadily fall . although I welcome the vast majority of the content of this Budget , I implore those on the Government Front Bench to look again at the cost of alcohol to our society and at how we address death from alcohol . I be afraid that , for those of we who can remember the 1970 , we appear to have go back in time , with a Labour Government increase borrowing , increase spending and , of course , increase our taxis . there be a little improvement during the Tony Blair year , as he seem at least to recognise that we have to create wealth before we can spend it , but this Budget clearly indicate that the Government have fail that test . budget often unravel in four or five day ; this one unravel in four or five hour . many hon . member will have read the article in today ' s Times by Sir James Dyson . hopefully Labour Members will take note of his comment . it be clear that the Government be set on a course that will most certainly not deliver on their growth agenda . my constituency be very industrial and take in the south bank of the Humber , contain two oil refinery , chemical industry , logistic and much more . it also contain the large port in the country by tonnage , Immingham , and I can not fail to mention the port of Grimsby ; I only have one ward of Grimsby in my constituency , but Grimsby be the world ' s large deep - sea fishing port and be now still reliant on fish supply , as thousand be employ in fish processing . Grimsby be also a major centre for the renewable energy sector . as we transition towards clean energy production , we have develop a network of training and skill institution to prepare the young generation for job in that sector . however , I must offer a word of caution : minister should have less zeal and more realism in try to meet stretch target . we have a large rural hinterland where people toil to put food on our table . it be a constituency where ten of thousand work hard for a living . today ' s debate be about protect work people . the work people I represent be resilient and self - reliant , but they do expect some support and protection from their government . what they want be good public service in exchange for their taxis . we have have a large tax hike on business , and we know that many part of the health sector will have to pay enormous increase in employer ' s contribution . hon . member across the House will have hear from doctor , from pensioner , from GPs and from farmer who be desperately concerned about what be come . I urge the Government to protect job and reverse their damaging proposal . only then will they truly be able to say that they be protect work people . I would like to place on the record my congratulation to my hon . friend the Members for North Somerset ( Sadik Al - Hassan ) , for Wrexham ( Andrew Ranger ) and for Huddersfield ( Harpreet Uppal ) on their amazing maiden speech today . I listen on Wednesday to the contribution from the hon . member for West Worcestershire ( Dame Harriett Baldwin ) — I notify she that I be go to quote her speech — who say that this be " a Budget of the public sector , by the public sector , for the public sector . " — [ Official Report , 30 October 2024 ; Vol . 755 , c . 854 . ] she say that as though it be a bad thing . I urge the Government to reject the false dichotomy be set up by the Conservative party , in which investment in the public sector be somehow a drain on the national expenditure , and put money into our public service be somehow inherently bad for our society and our state . when I speak to business , yes , they raise with I their concern about national insurance increase — I think business have do so with every member across this House , and it would be foolish to suggest otherwise — but they also ask I question like , " can you fix the A50 so we can expand and get more thing move down from JCB ? " and " can you get some proper mental health support so we can get worker back to work quick when they be struggle with their mental health ? " they tell I that they struggle with the supply of skilled young people and be ask desperately for investment in skill to make sure that there be a ready pipeline of young people who can do those job . it be therefore completely fatuous to suggest that the investment that this Government be put into the public sector will be in some way detrimental to the growth of our economy and the success of our private industry . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? no , there be no time — I be terribly sorry . I say this as one of those pesky trade unionist the conservative party seem in such opposition to : when the Conservatives talk about the significant pay for trade union , first of all , it be not for the trade union , but for the member of those trade union , all of whom be work people . Most of they live in Conservative Members ’ constituency , and some of they may have even vote for they — sadly , not all trade unionist vote labour . however , their pay go into their pocket , and from there it go on to their high street and the shop in their community . it be not hoard away as offshore wealth . it be not put into some clever accountancy scheme . it be use to buy kid ' school shoe . it be use to buy Saturday morning breakfast in the local caf é . it go back into the economy in a way the Conservatives simply seem to misunderstand . in the short time I have remain , I say to the Government : please do not listen to the siren voice that suggest that the investment we be put in be bad for our economy . it be not . it be good for our state , it be good for our country and it be good for our economy . I want to bring a Northern Ireland point of view on this Budget . first , I thank the Government for the £ 11 . 8 billion they have allocate for the infected and affected victim of the infected blood scandal , but I question whether it be enough and whether they will now deliver it at pace . it be unfortunate that the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) be no long in his place , because I know the work he do on that previously as Paymaster General . I also welcome the money for the postmaster , but I ask the Government why there be still no recognition of or assurance for our WASPI woman — the Women against State Pension Inequality — despite the recommendation of the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman and the pre and post - election photo opportunity take by both the Government and the Opposition . Health be devolve and , while I welcome the significant funding that health have be give here in England , I ask the Treasury to consider ringfence the Barnett consequential that will go to health in Northern Ireland . I notice that the parliamentary under - Secretary of State for Northern Ireland meet our health trust and health union prior to the Budget , so it would be interesting to know exactly what the Northern Ireland Office be do in regard to our health service in Northern Ireland . it be also noticeable that our Northern Ireland Office have receive a 66 % increase in its allocation . I would question whether that be an indication that the Northern Ireland Office intend to be more hand - on , and exactly what it be go to fund in Northern Ireland with those money . I want to ensure that that be scrutinise by this House and be use in support of strategy that be implement and support by all the party in the Northern Ireland Executive . it have be say that the national health service will be exempt from the rise in employer national insurance contribution , but I seek clarification from the Treasury in respect of social care in Northern Ireland . I note that the Chancellor say that additional money would be deliver to local authority so that the additional cost could be cover by social care provider here in England , but social care in Northern Ireland be pay for by our health service and our health trust . I ask what contribution , and what consideration , the Treasury have put into that allocation so that there be equity across the piece . I also support the comment that the hon . member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) make about the challenge face our GPs , our community pharmacy , our dentist , our social care provider , and the voluntary and community sector that support our health service . because of the limit on time , I will mostly keep my comment to one sector of the economy : the cultural sector , which be very significant in the Glasgow North constituency . I very much welcome the measure in the Budget to support the art , culture and creative industry by implement the 45 % and 40 % rate of theatre , orchestra , museum and gallery tax relief from April next year . those measure , along with the Government ' s recognition of the creative and art sector ' s contribution to the economy , be so important . that be particularly clear in my constituency , give the presence of important venue and institution include Scottish Opera , King Tut ' s , the National Theatre of Scotland , the Royal Conservatoire , the Royal Scottish National Orchestra , the Theatre Royal , the Pavilion , the King ' s theatre , the Kelvingrove art gallery , the Hydro , the School of Art , the Mitchell library , BBC Studioworks , the Gallery of Modern Art , the Glasgow Royal concert hall , the Hunterian Museum and the Riverside Museum , to name just some . it be very easy to think of the sector in term of performer — dancer , singer , musician ; those on the stage and those in front of the camera — but there be also very many skilled professional employ in the sector : the sound technician , the costume design team , the camera operator , the lighting engineer , the archivist , the conservation expert , the prop maker and the stage manager , along with the team in front of house , facility , security and so on . the sector add to the rich and diverse cultural life of the city , but it also add to the local economy , draw visitor to the city , employ thousand of people and create customer demand for nearby business . the Budget present to the House last week deliver the large settlement for the Scottish Government in the history of devolution . it be a clear and tangible sign of the importance of Scotland to this Government — a Government commit to deliver for Scotland and for all of the UK . this be how we deliver for work people : with the end of the era of austerity , raise much - need cash for our under - resource public service and deliver a pay rise for 200 , 000 of the lowest - pay scot . I recognise that much of policy on culture and the art be devolve . with the record settlement in this Budget , it be time for the Scottish Government to play fair by the sector , and to finally end the blame game and end their waste and financial mismanagement . they have the power and the resource ; they need to deliver to ensure that the work people of Glasgow and Scotland truly benefit from this transformative Budget . Aristotle say that the state exist to advance the wellbeing of its member ; a state that fail to advance its people ' s wellbee be not merely a state that act badly , but an institution that have fail to achieve its define purpose . such a positive vision of the state require strong institution that be able to act , with a Government accountable to the people but free to take action drive by what Disraeli understand to be the social welfare of the people . a Chancellor who hide behind the supposedly impartial pronouncement of the OBR be incapable of deliver real , meaningful change . restore accountability in practice require two parallel process : first , political control of decision making must be rebuild ; secondly and equally importantly , a great sense that the public have a stake in society — and by implication the state that serve it — must be engender . restore political accountability mean remove what the economist and writer Dan Davies have term " accountability sink " : the mechanism that ensure that nobody be to blame when thing go wrong . accountability sink be one of the great bane of modern life , from automated call centre to computer that say no to application for loan or other financial service . they be a matter of design , not accident . in the private sector , they can shield organisation from legal liability , as happen in the Post Office scandal . a decision make by an individual be much more open to question than one that be the consequence of a general policy . in the public sphere , accountability sink often shield politician and other public servant from genuine accountability for government policy . privatisation , contract out and private finance initiative have all be use as way of shift responsibility from Government to market force . the establishment of an independent Bank of England with an arbitrary inflation target be a classic example of a generalised policy that have replace specific individual decision making and responsibility . similarly , the Office for Budget Responsibility be establish explicitly to protect the Treasury from take responsibility for Budget forecasting . as davy note , the role of the court and international body be similar . be my right hon . friend suggest that we ought to replace those body and have the Government re - adopt responsibility for economic policy in the round , such as by set target for inflation , instead of say , " it ' s all down to an unelected body " ? absolutely . restore accountability mean reverse many of the process that have be take as read in recent year . democracy be dependent on clear line of accountability , but in the past 40 year they have be either dilute or displace . be it any wonder that the public feel disillusioned with the exercise of power as a result ? the british economy have suffer more at the hand of neoliberal globalisation than those of most of our competitor . foreign ownership of UK public firm have rise from just over 10 % in 1990 to 55 % in 2020 . ownership have become remote and unaccountable to worker , customer and even shareholder . credit creation have facilitate the growth of private equity and leveraged buy - out . private equity firm have be able to take on vast amount of debt in order to take over business . our economy be control by oligarchy careless of their customer and their employee . the result have be to make all other business objective secondary to the imperative of have enough cash to survive . as davy put it , the debt burden " create an ultimatum " : if company do not put their effort into make profit , they go bust . our constituent can see the increase power of unaccountable globalist enterprise and can see the Government ' s inability to do anything about it , just as farmer can see that the Government ' s policy on inheritance be completely belie by the fact that most asset - rich farm do not make a lot of money . it be not about asset ; it be about income . such disillusionment be socially corrosive , but it be justifiable when the most important economic decision be take by commercial entity with no regard for the need and value of the people . turn the ship around require radical concert action , not just platitude . we need a new economic model — one that harness the power of the state to break up the power of renti capitalism and restore an economy that work for society , not against it . fraternal economic be the mean ; popular wellbeing be the end . I must say that I be not quite sure how I can follow that . I congratulate my hon . friend the Members for Huddersfield ( Harpreet Uppal ) , for North Somerset ( Sadik Al - Hassan ) and for Wrexham ( Andrew Ranger ) on their excellent maiden speech . I be pleased to add my support to the Budget that my right hon . friend the Chancellor put forward last week . it provide a fresh start for our family in the town , village and city that comprise the constituency of Buckingham and Bletchley . give this Labour Government ' s dire economic inheritance , the Budget have do a great job not only of address the immediate challenge that my constituent face , but more importantly of lay the foundation for a resilient economy that will spread opportunity and deliver the down payment that we need on the Government ' s ambition to tackle child poverty . to understand why this Budget be so crucial , we need to take a moment to recognise the scale of the economic and social challenge that we face . since the financial crisis , the UK ' s productivity have grow at just 0 . 7 % per year — a sharp drop from the 2 . 1 % annual growth rate that we see in the 14 year beforehand . while other advanced economy have experience a similar slowdown , the UK have be hit particularly hard , not least as a result of the previous Government ' s shy away from take the proper long - term decision for our economy . this have lead to the UK ' s productivity be 28 % low than that of the United States and far low than that of our european competitor such as France and Germany . for many work people across the country and in my constituency , the consequence be stark , with a loss of almost £ 11 , 000 a year in potential wage over the past 15 year . member across the House will have see how that have manifest itself in rise child poverty and in the routine use of food bank , which my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions mention . that be why measure such as the fair repayment rate and the extension of the household support fund be so vital , as they provide the lifeline that family in my constituency and across the country so desperately need . another key issue correctly identify by the Chancellor be the low level of public and private investment in the UK compare with our peer . for almost my entire lifetime , the UK have be a laggard in that area — we have be at the bottom of the G7 ranking for public and private investment for 24 of the past 30 year . I be pleased that this Budget represent a vital first step in correct course , with a credible package of investment in infrastructure , school and hospital . that include East West Rail in my constituency , and my constituent in Bletchley and Winslow be look forward to the opportunity from that . I be pleased to support this Budget . it give work people and their family a hand up , build strong foundation and ensure that our economy will be competitive in the long run . the Budget we see last week be the most anti - aspirational Budget of modern time . it be a bad budget for growth , job and work people . first , let we consider its impact on small and medium - sized business , many of which be staff by work people . the £ 40 billion tax bombshell , combine with the additional regulation in the Employment Rights Bill , will place a massive burden on business , and we will only see more of they close over the come year . whatever industry people be in , there be now significantly high taxis and regulatory burden than we have ever see . the ludicrous hike in employer national insurance contribution will lead to many business no long employ new people and have to slash job . that be not in the interest of work people . the last Conservative Government play a crucial role in reduce unemployment throughout the UK . the Labour Government have tear that up just a few month into office . let we be clear that have few job be not in the interest of work people . the left like to portray capital gain tax as a tax that only affect the rich in society . however , that be simply not true . ordinary work people who save and invest and make a modest profit on small shareholding , or who maybe have a second home for their pension , will see their taxis rise as a result of this Budget . that be not in the interest of work people . it be the politic of envy unleash . have recently secure a Westminster Hall debate on the pub and hospitality sector , which be well attend by member from all part of the House , I welcome the penny cut to draft beer . however , that reduction be purely academic if people do not have a pub to go to . this Government have fail to extend the 75 % rate relief that the last Government put in place for the sector . the resident of Mid Leicestershire be deeply concerned that this Government ' s measure will damage the economy , rather than create growth . finally , VAT on education be perhaps one of the mean policy that this Government have bring in . it will not only affect those who have the wealth to send their child to public school , but impact those in the state sector , put additional burden on our child ' s future . to conclude , this be not a Budget for aspiration . what be the point in someone set up their own business ? what be the point in save to pay for their child ' s education ? what be the point in keep their family - run farm ? today , we have a Government lack in any idea to boost aspiration . instead , we have the politic of envy at play . on 4 July , the british people vote decisively for one clear promise : the promise of change . the Budget deliver on that promise . we have change , from year of short - termism , unmanaged decline and a weak , unbalanced economy with anaemic growth , to a long - term plan for the future of Britain that invest in the british people , our public service and our infrastructure . the theme of today ' s debate be protect work people , so I put on record my strong support for two particular measure . first , I support the substantial increase in the minimum wage for all worker , but in particular the massive 18 % boost for apprentice . that be a pay rise of £ 1 , 800 a year for an apprentice work 30 hour a week . I have more apprentice in my constituency than most , because of our nuclear industry , so that minimum wage rise will make a considerable difference . secondly , I support the Government ' s £ 240 million investment to tackle the root cause of economic inactivity and to support people back into work . the large number of people , particularly young man , who have fall out of the labour market since the pandemic be an enormous social and economic problem . I know that the Front - Bench team will grip that problem with the resource that this Budget provide . I will also make a wide point about investment and get Britain build again . the conservative plan be for public investment in this Parliament to decline sharply . low public investment have be a feature of our economic formula for year , and the result be well know : poor infrastructure , low productivity and sluggish growth . a boost of £ 100 billion over the next five year will begin to reverse the under - investment we have see from the Conservatives and act as a magnet to attract significantly more private investment . the key question be how we put that money to use in generate growth . take west Cumbria as an example , we have a coastal railway line that run from Carlisle to Barrow through my constituency . if we upgrade that line , we get 1 , 500 extra job and £ 1 billion of gross value add to the UK economy . to realise the benefit of high level of public investment and the job that come with it , we also need planning reform . without that , the public investment commitment in the Budget will get catch in a web of delay , diversion and high cost . the Budget be welcome . it be one measure that the Government have take , and there be a series of other , include plan reform , that will help get Britain back on track . there be no doubt that the Conservative Government leave our public service in tatter and the NHS on life support . this Government be leave with no choice but to make tough decision . I understand that , have lead a council that have be Conservative - run . important decision about employee pay be delay , there be vanity project and money waste , and reserve be slash so badly that the council be on the verge of bankruptcy . however , to govern be to choose , and I be shock by the short - sightedness of some of the decision make in last week ' s Budget . it be true that the average worker will not see a tax rise on their payslip , but their employer will now be calculate whether there will be any pay rise at all next year or whether to issue some of their worker with their P45 . shop , pub and caf é s face increase in national insurance and the national minimum wage be already struggle as household deal with cost of living pressure and from their own rise price for energy and for stock , and they be promise full reform of business rate . instead , their cost will skyrocket as their 75 % business rate relief be slash to 40 % . grant , the relief have be make permanent , but where be the commercial landowner levy or the charge on the internet giant ? surely tax the wealthy would be fair , rather than hit small business with a tax that take no account of profit or purpose ? I say it last week , and I will say it again now : rental auction and compulsory purchase change may in theory get the market move , but if business in high street such as Wareham in my constituency of Mid Dorset and North Poole can not afford to trade , the high street can not redefine its purpose . I , like my colleague , have be contact by business , public sector organisation and charity share their calculation of the impact of the national insurance change . corfe Mullen dental practice recently recruit a graduate dentist specifically to serve the child NHS population , boost capacity in my area . the increase in NI for staff have wipe out half her annual salary . if we be to stop dentist leave the NHS , we need exemption for they now . Julia ' s House child ' s hospice have calculate that its NI increase be £ 242 , 000 a year . shockingly , Tops nursery , which have several early year setting in my constituency , have calculate an increase of half a million pound , without any additional increase in childcare funding . the Lib Dems have call for taxis on energy giant and the big bank . we agree that those with the broad shoulder should pay more , but this Budget have mistake whose shoulder be broad , so I ask the Government for urgent consideration of two thing : first , rethink the national insurance change to exempt organisation ally to the NHS and education , such as GPs , hospice and nursery , and instead to get the extra money from big bank and share buyback ; and secondly , to postpone the reduction of retail , hospitality and leisure relief until full business rate reform be ready to keep our high street alive . I congratulate my hon . friend the Members for Huddersfield ( Harpreet Uppal ) , for North Somerset ( Sadik Al - Hassan ) and for Wrexham ( Andrew Ranger ) on their excellent maiden speech . as the first ever Labour MP for Basingstoke , I be proud to champion the first Labour Budget in 14 year , deliver by the first ever female Chancellor . I also congratulate the right hon . member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) on her election as leader of his Majesty ' s official opposition . as the first black woman to lead a major political party , she have achieve a significant milestone . I will focus on three key point . the first be to recognise that the Budget represent a crucial shift away from the fail policy of the last 14 year . as my hon . friend the Member for Swansea West ( torsten Bell ) have say , the risk in continue down the same path be immense economically , socially and politically . the previous Parliament see living standard decline , the low growth and high inflation in the G7 , and sky - rocket hospital and housing waiting list . the new Leader of the Opposition have claim that the public now expect too much from government , but my constituent in Basingstoke have lose faith that the state can deliver even the most basic of public service after 14 year of neglect . that bring I to my second point : the Budget be about fix our public finance and repair our public service . our first fiscal rule ensure that day - to - day spending be sustainably fund , which be essential give the chaos of the Conservatives ' mini - Budget . crucially , however , our rule allow for increase public investment : an approach welcome by the International Monetary Fund . unlike the Conservatives , who , as other have mention , plan to cut public investment by a third , we believe in invest in housing , school and infrastructure . their opposition to new investment reveal their desire to return we to a path of decline that voter reject just a few month ago . the Budget will lead to more NHS appointment and well healthcare , more teacher and improved education , and more secure , affordable housing for all . finally , the Budget protect and deliver for work people in Basingstoke , just as we promise in our manifesto . the increase in the national living wage will mean £ 1 , 400 more for a full - time worker on the living wage . we be address the legacy of poverty leave by the previous Government , with one in five child in Basingstoke live in relative poverty . change to the repayment rate of universal credit will make over a million of the UK ' s poor household £ 420 well off from next April . the Budget signify a decisive move towards a fair , more prosperous future for Basingstoke and for Britain . those on the Opposition Benches will regret their opposition to the Budget . I be proud to support it . I start by welcome the fact that this be the first Budget present by a female Chancellor . the House should be proud of that . I also send my thank to the Prime Minister for acknowledge the former leader of the Conservative party and his heritage as a second - generation Indian . this place be symbolic not just here but around the world . I be go to shift tone , if I may . [ laughter . ] the Budget be incredibly punitive for small business . I come from a small business background , and I applaud those who be brave enough to set up their own business . a lot of the time , those small business be one - man band , reliant on family member or friend to support they . today , I probably would not set up a small business , because off the back of this Budget we have destroy ambition in our country . the Budget absolutely feed into support public sector worker , but as Sir James Dyson say in the Times today , how can we encourage the entrepreneur of tomorrow to start their business today ? politic be about choice . my party spend the summer try to convince the electorate that Labour be go to raise their taxis — we think that it be , and indeed we tell the public that . the Budget raise taxis on work people , on pensioner , on wealth creator and on farmer . I think that farmer and the NFU know there would be an issue when only 87 word of the labour manifesto refer to farming . the Budget send a message that ambition be something not to foster . with regard to the tax burden , we see an increase in capital gain tax and inheritance tax , the removal of stamp duty support for first - time buyer and the unfreezing of income tax band . this be a Budget that penalise ambition . I be conscious of time , so I want quickly to focus on three local issue in South West Herts . on defence spending , I be lucky enough to represent Northwood NATO base in my constituency . while I applaud the Government ' s investment in defence and support our ukrainian ally , I gently point out that the Budget will actually see a decrease in the percentage of GDP spend on defence , let alone a pathway to spend 2 . 5 % . do my hon . friend agree that at this time when the world be more dangerous than it have ever be , any reduction in defence spending be the wrong way to go ? my hon . friend be spot on . [ interruption . ] I hear comment from Government Members that it be not a reduction . my government and my party ' s manifesto commit to 2 . 5 % . I look forward to the Government commit to that level in future spending review , and ideally go high . the second local issue be independent school . I believe that this be a policy of envy . when the Government be burden independent school with vat and increase in business rate , they be force family who be just about afford current tuition fee to make the choice to go to the state school sector . now , if there be capacity in the state school sector , I would happily applaud that , but when a shadow Minister confirm during the general election campaign that class size would increase , that for I be a warning that the Labour party know what it be do . unfortunately , resident of South West Hertfordshire will come to feel that in thing such as SEND support — help those who be most in need — which be subsidise by the private sector . finally , on Watford general hospital , I look forward to the Health Secretary come back in the spring with his review . follow on from my question at Prime Minister ' s question in October , that be critical for my constituent . I could not have be more pleased to hear the Chancellor ' s game - change Budget last week , put an end to the cynical short - termism of the previous Government and take on the long - term challenge of rebuild Britain to be the fair , more equitable society that we know it can be . today , what an absolute tonic it be to hear from our Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , who be serious about drive up opportunity and drive down poverty and have a serious plan to do so . no more tinker at the edge and no more blame game with the very people who deserve our support , but a practical , people - centre plan to get Britain work and to support and empower the most vulnerable for the long term . People in my constituency of Clwyd North have much to welcome in what the Secretary of State say . there be the £ 470 rise this year alone in the state pension through retain the triple lock , despite the financial inheritance leave to we by the Conservatives . the significant increase in the earning threshold for eligibility for carer ' s allowance be welcome news for 3 , 000 - plus family carer in my constituency , as be the valuable consequential fund gain by Wales through the extension of the household support fund to support those struggle most with household cost . if I may , I would like to celebrate the two measure that resonate most with I as a result of my journey to this House through teaching in our classroom and work with our community in local government . they be the £ 240 million package to open up opportunity to all those leave behind to get into work and to get on in work , and the fair payment rate for universal credit , which be rely on so much by those in and out of work . deduction will be cap at 15 % rather than the crippling 25 % , which stop too many family from ever get their head above water . our child , family and community deserve a fighting chance . only a join - up , person - centre approach can achieve that , which be why I be delighted to see the dawn of the " get Britain work " White Paper , enable by this Budget . at last , we have a Government who be put investment front and centre of rebuild our country — investment in infrastructure , business and , crucially , in our people . it be about time . our people be our great asset . this be a Budget — order . let I start with some positive , because I do not want the Government to think that I do not recognise the challenge that they face . I welcome the effort to tackle nhs maintenance backlog , which will help constituent in Mid Bedfordshire who use Luton and Dunstable hospital and Bedford hospital . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to improve rural broadband and funding for flood defence and nature restoration . as the MP for the Marston Vale line , I look forward to constructive engagement on East West Rail , make sure that community in my constituency be hear through the consultation process later this year . I welcome the fact that this Government acknowledge the importance of economic growth , but I be concerned that , beyond acknowledge it , there be nothing really in the Budget to deliver it . despite the warm word and platitude of the Labour party during the election campaign , this be a deeply socialist Budget , with an ever - increase share of our economy move into the ambit of Government , only to be distribute by Government into area that be unproductive of economic growth . my hon . friend make an excellent point about growth . the elephant in the room be productivity . he will know from the House of Commons Library figure that productivity fall in the past year , and we be lag behind many competitive country . in both public sector and private sector productivity , it be critical that we take further step to develop skill to drive growth . I agree that productivity be essential , and everyone in the House need to focus on it . this be a dishonest and a damaging Budget . this Government promise that they would protect work people ; instead , they have deliver a Budget that be tough on work and tough on the cause of work . this be a Budget that tax employment , with 1 million employer now set to lose out . combine with an estimate £ 5 billion cost of expansive employment right , our economy will be less flexible and starve of risk capital , job and investment in our community . this be a job - cut Budget . this be a Budget that attack our farming family , our rural economy and our rural community — man and woman work hard day in , day out , in some of the most challenging economic circumstance , at considerable risk and with low margin , all to put food on our table three time a day . we simply would not survive without our farmer — it be that simple . but this Government be choose to hit those very people with a family farm tax , which will drive asset disposal , split up land farm by the same family for generation . it will discourage the next generation from take up the mantle , and tear apart the community that these farm be integral to . last year , the now Prime Minister say : " every day seem to bring a new existential risk to british farming . " today , the existential risk be this socialist Government . this Budget fundamentally attack the heart of economic growth . it crowd out private investment and reduce real business investment by £ 25 billion . the OBR note : " by the forecast horizon , government spending comprise a large part of little - change real gdp . " when the Government promise growth , the british people might have hope that it would be growth in the wealth of our country , not just the size of the state . their own word sum that up well — the Budget say : " rewarding work with a fair wage be the good way to improve living standard " . this Budget achieve none of that . instead , it deliver low real wage , low real household disposable income , high inflation and high mortgage rate . after the Budget , the Chancellor tell the british public that work people will not face high taxis in their payslip , but she know that be not true . More than 4 million extra taxpayer will be drag into tax because she have keep the freeze on tax threshold . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Chancellor not only on be the first woman ever to deliver a Budget to this House , but on be the first Chancellor to deliver a join - up , grow - up Budget in 14 year . represent a Welsh constituency , I be proud that this Budget provide the large funding boost — £ 21 billion — that Wales have receive since devolution . that be proof , if ever that be need , that only two Labour Governments work together will ever properly listen to , understand and fight to meet the need of the people of Wales , who have be ignore , belittle or attack by generation of Conservatives . we all know that our broken public service would collapse overnight without the selfless dedication of the countless woman and man who , day in and day out , serve as unpaid carer . I be particularly pleased that the Budget have raise the amount by nearly £ 200 a month that carer can earn before lose out on carer ' s allowance . turn to agriculture , as co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group for farming , and have grow up on a small family farm , I know there have be much disquiet over the change to agricultural property relief . I have be in constant communication with our excellent local NFU policy staff since the Budget , and I be listen to their concern and feed they directly back to DEFRA . it be unsurprise that farmer be worried , give that many journalist and the conservative party have unfortunately be selectively focus on a £ 1 million figure that do not reflect the reality of the policy . let I seek to reassure small family farmer and repeat the word of the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury , my hon . friend the Member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) last week , who say : " the total value of a farm should not be confuse with the value be pass on at death . multiple family member can own part of a farm . for example , if an individual jointly own a farm worth £ 3 million with their partner , only £ 1 . 5 million be in their estate at death . " — [ Official Report , 31 October 2024 ; Vol . 755 , c . 1036 . ] those be wise word , which will give comfort to many who have be mislead by selective and mischievous comment on the Budget . with the additional £ 500 , 000 relief for each partner if there be a property on the farm , a farm worth up to £ 3 million may still pay zero inheritance tax . yes , this Budget recognise that family farm form part of the backbone of rural community , but it also recognise that our rural community rely every bit as much on strong , function public service . this historic Budget call time on austerity , and bring stability back . I call Susan Murray . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow I to make my first contribution to a UK Budget debate . I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I congratulate member on the Government Benches on their excellent maiden speech . I be pleased to hear the Chancellor ' s plan for reparation for the infected blood scandal and the post office Horizon scandal , but I be disappoint that there be no mention of compensation for WASPI woman , despite the health service ombudsman ' s report , which be publish in March . I trust that will be address in the very near future . my constituency of Mid Dunbartonshire have an age population , which be to be celebrate , but it bring with it high number of patient with increase frailty and great healthcare need . Mid Dunbartonshire have a wealth of charity and community group that support carer , offer peer support and support mental health , and generally reduce demand on statutory service and prevent cost for the NHS . the increase in employer national insurance will inevitably hit they hard , and it be vital that they be protect from additional taxis if these service be to continue . the same be true for small and medium - sized business in Mid Dunbartonshire , which be so vital to our local economy , provide job that break the cycle of disadvantage . I welcome the increase in capital funding for Scotland in the Budget . give the increase , it be finally time to see the development of the much - need new Milngavie health and care centre . this project echo the Government ' s plan to create community - focus health hub , which be key to prevent cost for the NHS . resident and health professional in Bearsden and Milngavie desperately need the new health and care centre . GPs , dentist , ally health professional and third - sector support ensure the health of our community and protect our hospital from avoidable pressure . the co - operation between the Scottish Government and the UK Government be vital to ensure appropriate funding reach Scotland for devolved health and care service . work cross - party will surely improve the effectiveness of solution . I urge the Government to consider the Liberal Democrats ' fully cost plan to increase capital and revenue funding for the NHS and care . the people in Mid Dunbartonshire and the rest of the UK be count on we to save our NHS . improve care service be a key part of tackle this crisis . I welcome the Budget ; it begin the change that people vote for at the general election . it be a move away from laissez - faire under the Tories to an active government who will be on the side of ordinary people and act in the common good . I also welcome , as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on haemophilia and infect blood , the money for compensation in the contaminated blood scandal . the £ 11 . 8 billion be very welcome . it be remarkable that , after all the debate , statement and question we have over so many year in this House , the previous Government never set aside a penny for the compensation scheme . I note from the Red Book that the £ 11 . 8 billion for contaminate blood be to be spend over five year . I just say to my hon . friend on the Government Front Bench that that be a long time for people to wait for justice . I hope that do not slow down the interim payment and final settlement . too many have die along the way . we can not let anything get in the way of these people receive justice . I agree with the change to non - dom status and inheritance tax , but they do not begin to deal with the imbalance in the growth of wealth between the top 1 % who own so much wealth and the ordinary people . over the last 14 year , the Conservatives have do nothing to address that imbalance . we must recognise that we do not tax wealth in the way that we tax work , which have create intolerable inequality . since the 1980 , the wealth of the rich have rise from three time the national income to almost eight time . the top fifth of the country own 63 % of the wealth , while the bottom fifth have only 0 . 5 % . the top 1 % be 41 time rich than anyone else . despite that growth in wealth , wealth taxis have not increase as a share of overall taxation or as a share of gdp . this be the politic not of envy , but logic . if we do not invest an appropriate proportion of the wealth create by our nation in our public service and infrastructure , our university and research , our police and court , and much , much more , we diminish our country . surely , that downward spiral will also be an incentive for those who , we be tell , will go overseas if we tax they too much . we must ensure that we go where the money be and where it have be go over the past 40 year . it be time for we to address the imbalance between how we tax wealth and how we tax work . the Budget have set we on the right road , but we need to go far . I want to raise two specific issue in relation to the Budget , but we on the liberal Democrat Benches be pleased to see the investment in the NHS . it do feel , however , like the Government have give with one hand and take away with the other . first , I express my deep disappointment , and that of my constituent , at the lack of mention of the two - child benefit cap . the two - child limit have trap hundred of thousand of child in poverty . this be the Government ' s opportunity to end this unfair and regressive policy , yet they have choose not to . my colleague and I will continue to campaign to scrap the policy , as it would be one of the quick and most cost - effective way to lift child out of poverty and would have enormous long - term benefit for child , society and our economy . secondly , I join other Members in raise an issue relate to business . after the long year of a Conservative Government who do not understand business , there be a genuine optimism from business across my constituency that the new Government would be different . however , the 8 . 7 % hike to employer ' national insurance contribution have be a deeply unwelcome surprise . in the day since the Budget , I have speak to small business owner in my constituency , include an independent pharmacy owner , and each have share with I how the hike will have a hugely detrimental impact on their business , and will impact their employee . in fact , this afternoon I receive from a resident a deeply distressing email that illustrate this very issue : " as of today , I have be make redundant . the primary reason cite in my redundancy interview be the increase financial burden on my employer due to tax rise and National Insurance increase impose by Labour . these measure have directly undermine the ability of my small business employer to sustain full - time staff , leave I , and likely many other , without employment . this sudden and destabilising change have leave I not only angry but fearful for the future . I be concerned that I may struggle to find new employment for the very reason that cost I my last job . " this could have be a Budget of growth and fair taxation that truly protect the most vulnerable . instead , it be a Budget of what I hope be unintended consequence , consequence that it be not too late to prevent if the Government be willing to listen , work with mps on these Benches , and rethink element of the Budget that can and should be improve . I never cease to be amazed by conservative mp , in particular former Ministers . it be like the last 14 year never happen : they never crash the economy , they never put 4 million child into poverty , they never devastate our community . I hear Opposition member talk about how the Budget destroy aspiration and ambition . what about the young people in our constituency whose aspiration and ambition they destroy for 14 year ? what about the 4 million child they put into poverty ? what about the work family who , for the last 14 year , they make use food bank ? do they not have aspiration and ambition ? do they wake up one day and decide to go and use food bank ? the shadow Chancellor , the right hon . member for Central Devon ( Mel Stride ) have hold very prominent position in this House , but today he come out with pure fiction from some parallel universe . I ask he seriously to consider that . I have work with he in the past , but I really do not think that he have do it justice . the opposition should have have the decency to apologise for 14 year of failure , but we have not hear one acknowledgment of that . do we think their constituent really buy that ? be the people out there suddenly go to forget the 14 year of devastation they bring to our community ? I welcome the Budget . after 14 year , it provide real investment — over £ 25 billion — in our NHS , so that my constituent and the constituent of all Members will not have to wait week on end before they can see a gp . it provide billion for education , so that every child in my constituency will have the good start in education and the good start in life . I would of course like the Budget to go far to address poverty . I look forward to work with Ministers , because there be a journey still to travel . this be just the foundation . when the Chancellor introduce her Budget , one thing she say be that change must be feel . this Budget will be feel , but , in many instance , not in a good way . my constituency be pepper with small business employ 10 or 12 people . they be the victim of this Budget , because they be now go to be soak with additional tax on job , and that will not bring change that will be feel in a good way ; it will diminish employment in my constituency . my constituency also have many family farm , and they too will not feel this Budget in a good way , because inheritance tax will put many of their future in jeopardy . family farm be asset rich , but more often than not they be cash poor , so how on earth will they ever meet the huge imposition that have be place on they ? the average farm income in the past year in Northern Ireland be £ 27 , 345 , which do not exactly leave those family farm a lot of slack . it do not leave they much to live on , let alone meet inheritance tax bill . that illustrate my point . it show how impossible and unfair it be to say to family farm — and it do not take a lot of acreage to be worth £ 1 million — " you may have the asset , you do not have the income , but you must pay the inheritance tax to HMRC . " what do those farmer do ? they sell off part of the farm , and what do that do ? it diminish the food production , and it diminish the viability of the farm . that will be how this Budget will be feel in many family farm . similarly , it will be feel in a negative way by new homebuyer because of the stamp duty threshold reduction : new purchaser will now pay significantly more in tax to buy a new home . as for the Budget allocation for Northern Ireland , back in 2012 the Government accept a national barometer of need . through Professor Holtham , it set out what be need in each part of this nation . what £ 100 could buy in public service in England be then translate — because other area be small — into what it would cost to buy the same amount in the rest of the United Kingdom : £ 105 in Scotland , £ 115 in Wales and £ 121 in Northern Ireland . yes , accord to the block grant transparency document this Budget provide for Wales £ 120 per £ 100 in England , but in Northern Ireland we continue to be just at need . why be there that uplift for some part of the United Kingdom and not for other ? we in Northern Ireland also have no guarantee of meeting need beyond 2026 - 27 . that be not assure in this Budget . I ask for my constituent what have be afford to the constituent of Wales , an uplift on need so that they can see their public service provide properly . order . intervention prevent other colleague from contribute , so let we be mindful . as Chair of the Transport Committee , I will focus my remark on transport , a sector that be essential to deliver the Labour Government ' s mission on growth and decarbonisation and to improve our health . on those , the Conservatives dodge the tough decision and kick the can down the potholed road . as the Chancellor say , just as in 1945 and 1997 , it be up to the Labour party to clear up their mess . I welcome the investment for the HS2 tunnel to Euston , the trans - Pennine route upgrade , East West Rail and the Marston Vale line . I be delighted that combined authority , local council and directly elect Mayors will receive funding for supertram and mass - transit project . the £ 485 million for Transport for London for roll stock on the Piccadilly and Elizabeth line will be particularly welcome in my constituency and across London , but also in Derby and Goole , where the job be be create and protect . my Committee will take great interest in how those project be deliver . we hope that they will be complete on time , on budget , and in a way that will help the UK to catch up and compete with the good transport system around the world . colleague on both side of the House have tell I about the importance of local bus service , whether for work , study or shopping , and they be a lifeline for town centre . I welcome the £ 1 billion funding boost , and the fact that bus service be be put into the hand of local community . I be pleased that a bus fare cap have be retain and that next month ' s cliff edge have be avoid , but I hope that the Government will soon come up with a long - term solution for the revenue funding of bus across England , outside London . motorist will welcome the freezing of fuel duty . the previous Transport Committee , however , conclude that the Government " must start an honest conversation with the public " on how to maintain funding for road and other essential public service as electric vehicle use increase and the use of fossil - fuel vehicle decrease . that will mean a decline in fuel duty for the Exchequer , so I hope that the front Benches will work together on this challenge , which will only become ever more urgent . as for the role of transport in decarbonisation , I be pleased that the Chancellor be increase air passenger duty on private jet , but I hope that the Government will also address the electricity grid capacity challenge to ensure that there be adequate power when and where it be need , to provide — among other thing — confidence in electric vehicle take - up . this be a major infrastructure issue duck by the last Government . I be pleased that the Chancellor have seize the mantle of investment to put our country on a strong footing for the future . it be an honour to speak in this debate in response to the first ever Budget deliver by a female Chancellor . there be no doubt that the Government have some tough decision to make after inherit a mess cause by the reckless economic mismanagement of the previous Government , but we be also still reel from the economic disaster into which that Government push we with their Brexit fantasy . yesterday ' s OBR report estimate that Brexit will cost the UK 4 % of gdp per year , with import and export down by 15 % . the predict GDP growth of 2 % next year pale in comparison . if we be serious about economic growth , we absolutely must improve our trading relationship with Europe , and we in this House need to be brave enough to have that conversation — but back to the Budget . along with my liberal Democrat colleague , I be glad that the Chancellor have listen to our call for investment and support for the NHS , and promise a cash injection to start repair the damage do to local health service . I also welcome the £ 1 billion of capital investment . my local hospital in Torbay represent the ultimate Liberal Democrat case study of despair , with sewage leak inside the hospital — more than 700 time at the last count . investment to deal with rot and broken building be vital , and will ultimately help to put our creak country back on its foot . the lack of discussion about social care be a gape hole , and Liberal Democrats have be call loudly for a cross - party conversation . free personal care could deliver annual saving for the NHS of up to £ 3 . 3 billion by 2031 . yes , it will cost money , but it be this kind of investment that we need to repair our health service . in the spirit of offer constructive opposition to the new Government , I want to highlight two issue that will affect my constituency considerably . the first be agricultural property relief . have see the front page , I be sure that the Chancellor be well aware of the distress and fury that this have cause in rural community such as my constituency . it be simply tin - eare to say , " we can not afford farmer to die tax - free . " we can not afford to lose more farm : they be the backbone of our rural economy , and they be fundamentally important for national food supply . the second issue be the tax relief offer to the hospitality , leisure and tourism sector . those business have struggle to recover since the pandemic , while carry the burden of rise energy price , interest rate and staff shortage . we urge the Government to go far on business rate reform by fundamentally overhaul a system that be destroy our high street and town centre . the Liberal Democrats believe that there be much fairer way to raise the money need than by hit small business . our manifesto set out our call for a fair tax system , include raise money by reverse the Conservatives ' tax cut for the big bank , all by ask the tech company and the oil and gas company to pay more . the Government could also have go far on capital gain tax for the top 0 . 1 % . I congratulate my hon . friend the Members for Huddersfield ( Harpreet Uppal ) , for North Somerset ( Sadik Al - Hassan ) and for Wrexham ( Andrew Ranger ) on their excellent maiden speech . I also congratulate my right hon . friend the Chancellor on deliver what I have conclude be one of the most consequential Budgets in a generation . in this Budget , we have reset the nation ' s finance and wipe the slate clean so that we can deliver the change that we promise in the general election . give the dire state of the public finance , we have have to take some very difficult decision to balance the book , but , as we set out in our manifesto , we will never play fast and loose with the public finance and we will deliver economic stability , unlike the conservative party . despite the circumstance we inherit , there be so much in this Budget that will change our country for the well : record investment in the NHS , a pay rise for 3 million worker , fully fund compensation for victim of the Post Office scandal and the infected blood scandal , the big ever increase in carer ' s allowance , and so much more . it be a down payment on the change that we offer the electorate at the general election . give the time constraint , I will focus on education . as a former math teacher , I be all too familiar with the problem that plague our state school . for a long time , school staff have be stretch themselves extremely thin to meet the need of their student , like butter spread over too much bread . I have see it at first hand . it should not be this hard , so I welcome with open arm the investment in education . the £ 2 . 3 billion increase to the core school budget will increase funding per pupil in real term . this Budget commit we to recruit thousand of new teacher in key subject . every child deserve to be teach by a qualified teacher in every subject . student also deserve to be teach in school building that will not collapse , so the announcement of £ 2 . 1 billion to improve the condition of the school estate be very welcome . I have meet parent in my constituency , from Farnley and Robin Hood to Wortley and Tingley , and I have hear about their experience of the special educational need and disability system . some of their story be devastating . as a teacher , I have see that the system be fail , so the £ 1 billion announce by the Chancellor for SEND provision be a big step in the right direction for family across Leeds South West and Morley . every child with SEND or otherwise deserve the opportunity to succeed in education . this Budget lay the foundation to rebuild education and to rebuild Britain . it be a Budget that unapologetically invest in Britain ' s future . the people of Leeds South West and Morley vote for change in July . this Budget deliver that and then some . if there be one phrase that occur repeatedly on the doorstep in Bicester and Woodstock during the general election , it be , " I ' ve always vote conservative , but I ' m never do that again . " voter talk about a cost of living crisis , high interest rate raise mortgage and rent , and stealth taxis hit low - income pensioner , all of which they blame on Conservative Ministers who be more interested in hold office than govern well . I be in no doubt that this new Labour Government inherit a poisoned chalice and have , as the Chancellor say in her speech , face some tough choice . today ' s debate be focus on protect work people . my constituent in Bicester and Woodstock have share their view on how well the Chancellor ' s choice have meet that goal . most prominent in the Chancellor ' s tax change be the increase to employer ' national insurance contribution . I speak to the owner of a small caf é and leisure business in my constituency . they employ a small team of staff , many of whom have be with the business for year . few of they work full time , and some be student or school pupil who work one shift . give the increase in employer ' nic and the failure to reform business rate , the owner tell I that this Budget will take they to the edge financially . I regret that the Chancellor do not listen to the Liberal Democrats ’ recommendation to raise taxis from those with the broad shoulder , reverse the tax cut that the Conservatives give to the big bank , and levy a modest tax on social medium company . the Chancellor say there would be no tax rise for work people , but small business owner in my constituency would disagree . two week ago , the National Audit Office report that the SEND system be break . in the urgent question on that report , I speak about Zak , who live in my constituency and whose young life have be deeply affect by the shortcoming in the SEND system . both of Zak ' s parent have have to stop work and move on to universal credit so that they can care for and educate Zak at home . I welcome the £ 1 billion in new funding to help local authority address SEND deficit , but we need to do more . we need a much more ambitious approach to improve the support we give young people and their family . the Liberal Democrats support the Chancellor ' s commitment to public sector investment after year of neglect under the previous Government , so I welcome her confirmation that she have commit to fund the East West Rail project , which run through my constituency . however , the document provide by the Treasury and the Department for Transport do not clarify whether a share of that new funding will be ringfence to keep open London Road in Bicester , which connect our town . since 2021 , as a county councillor and now as an MP , I have be press East West Rail and Ministers to commit to funding that . in that time , there have be four Prime Ministers and five rail Ministers . I hope this new Government will now commit to find solution that will avoid Bicester be cut in two . may I start by extend a huge congratulation to everybody who have give their maiden speech today ? I also congratulate my right hon . friend the Work and Pensions Secretary on her opening speech , and the Chancellor on her Budget . this be an incredibly progressive Budget . it recognise the real hardship that family on low income have face over the last 14 year and address they by extend and uplift the living wage , and by reduce deduction for those on universal credit and the standard allowance , which be a significant burden on people on the low income , include those in work . ultimately , what we will do on increase the personal tax allowance will be important for increase people ' s income . get Britain back to work be an important endeavour , and I entirely support it . we must recognise that we have nearly 3 million people of working age who be not in work , education or training because they be not well . over the past decade , and particularly over the past seven year , we have see decline in life expectancy and healthy life expectancy in area like mine , particularly for woman . that mean that people who be expect to work be not in a position to work . the investment in the NHS will make a massive difference by address our ill health — we be a poorly nation — but it will also mean that we can help to grow our economy . I want to touch on a report that be produce six year ago but be still relevant today — indeed , the relevance of its analysis have probably increase . the 2018 " Health be Wealth " report by the Northern Health Science Alliance argue that in order to improve our productivity and growth , we must improve our health . those eminent epidemiologist and public health academic bring the evidence together to enable they to make those estimation , and they calculate that improve the health of the north to the level of the rest of England would increase productivity by £ 13 . 2 billion a year , so I urge the Government to consider update this piece of work , and also to consider how we can ensure that our NHS allocation reflect the health need in these area . this be a Budget of broken promise . some 88 % of my constituency be agricultural land . the reform to agricultural property relief and business property relief will effectively be the end of the family farm . on back British Farming Day two month ago , Labour Members proudly stand by the Massey Ferguson outside the Palace , but farming be more than a photo opportunity . careful environmental stewardship that come from long - term family ownership be put at risk by this policy . the impact also extend to tenant farmer . if the availability of land to rent be reduce as a result of carve up all our small farm , new entrant farmer who will begin their career on let holding be deny their opportunity to start , just at the point when we should be encourage they for the future . I urge hon . and right hon . member , as well as anyone else watch this debate , to join the thousand of other who be sign our petition to stop this . the village pub be another core pillar of my rural constituency . I speak recently in Westminster Hall about the essential importance of these institution to the rural way of life , and about how this Government should continue the 75 % business rate relief , so I be very disappointed to see that this rate will be cut to 40 % , particularly at a time when many rural pub be struggle to remain viable . and all of this be while the Chancellor increase employer national insurance contribution , cause great distress in the hospitality industry . this tax hike will result in job lose , small and medium - sized business squeeze , and enterprise damage . the Chancellor appear to be punch - drunk on Labour ' s election victory , but the british public be go to suffer the ultimate hangover . can I also stress one point for caution ? as the vice - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on investment fraud and fair financial service , I appreciate that the Chancellor want to ensure that everyone pay what they owe and in a timely fashion , but I urge the Government to ensure that any victim of historical pension and investment fraud be protect . enforcement action against victim should be suspend and HMRC should be instruct to use its wide discretion in debt forgiveness . HMRC should focus on pursue those who orchestrate the scheme and on recover steal fund from the fraudster , rather than target the victim . the market dislike this Budget and my constituent will be penalise by this Budget , so who want this Budget ? be this really what Labour Members want ? I ask the many Labour Members who now represent rural constituency : do they stand for election to end the family farm ? do those who owe their seat to the pensioner who show up in huge number at the polling station stand for election to make they cold this winter ? we on this side will not relent in our opposition to this catalogue of broken promise . first , I would like to congratulate those who make their maiden speech , represent fantastic place right across the UK . give today ' s theme of protect work people , I think it would be worth remind Conservative Members of the real impact of the last 14 year of failure : 3 million people use food bank , more than 700 , 000 child plunge into poverty , mortgage cost nearly double , the bad pay rise since the 1950 , disabled people commit suicide due to reform to their benefit , mental health bad than at any time on record , more people sleep rough and more family without their own home . the conservative party continue to deny , to justify and to refuse to apologise to those people right across the country and in my constituency of Milton Keynes Central . it be time for a new deal for the people of the UK . in fact , that be what they vote for , and just as new deal have historically pull country out of darkness , this Budget aim to do the same . President Roosevelt say : " the test of our progress be not whether we add more to the abundance of those who have much ; it be whether we provide enough for those who have too little . " like FDR ' s plan , that be what this Budget do . it immediately give economic relief by increase the minimum wage , raise carer ' s allowance threshold , make the benefit system more understanding of individual circumstance and allocate £ 1 billion to those with special educational need . it also make sure that we be fund our recovery , as well as funding and prioritise science and innovation , further education , infrastructure , affordable housing , lower energy cost and expand childcare . and it also promise to build back well , with reform to our public service . after 14 year of failure under the conservative opposite , this Budget will provide ambition , hope and stability for Britain and its people . last week ' s Budget and its investment in the national health service be , of course , welcome by the Liberal Democrats , just as we welcome the clawing back of money for carer where , in many case , the Government make mistake . the raising of the earning limit be also very welcome , as my hon . friend the Member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) make clear . in Taunton and across Somerset , we be wait to hear about Musgrove Park hospital . temporary building build for the US army in 1940 still serve as its maternity unit . in the summer , 30 ° heat cause staff to faint , and rain seep through hole in the roof during the rest of the year . we be wait to hear whether that project will make it into the £ 3 . 1 billion investment plan , as we hope it will . the hospital need to know so that it can plan . I recognise that the Government be seek to provide investment certainty and stability of economic policy , which be something we have not see in this country in recent year . that aim , at least , be a world away from the empty stunt of the previous Conservative Government , who promise Taunton a whole new hospital , which be not found on any kind of reality . that be a disgrace , and we need a more stable investment landscape . investment be welcome , but it have to drive growth and bring in private sector investment . the opening of Wellington and Cullompton station be an absolute priority for my constituency . no other project be so close to the end of its detailed design and have such a strong benefit - cost ratio — 3 . 67 , accord to Treasury figure . the knock - on benefit for housing , transport , employment and investment be huge . sadly , however , the project be on hold . with 2 % inflation on a £ 25 million project , it have cost we £ 1 , 600 every day since the pause in July . the Chancellor tell I from the Dispatch Box in July that Wellington station will go ahead , and I hope that I will not be disappoint . have say that , even while I have be sit in the Chamber , the Minister for Rail have defer and cancel a meeting with mps on rail project , which be an alarming development that I hope will soon be reverse . the Government have also save £ 2 . 5 billion by scrap two big road project in Somerset , which mean that the Henlade and Thornfalcon bypass really must happen . finally , as my hon . friend have say , the burden of this investment should not fall on small business . it should fall on the big bank , the big energy company and the social medium giant . that be what the Liberal Democrats will work towards . I be proud that our Labour Government be take crucial step towards fix the foundation of our economy , while protect work people and support struggle household . we be elect on a manifesto of change , and last week we prove to our constituent that we will make good on that promise . what be so important , and what strike I about the Budget , be the commitment to justice — justice for the victim of the infected blood scandal and the Post Office Horizon IT scandal , who will now receive the compensation they deserve , and , crucially for my constituent in Doncaster Central , justice for our former mineworker on the mineworker ' pension scheme who will now get the money that be rightfully theirs . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley South ( Stephanie Peacock ) for her long - stand campaign on this matter . have speak not too long ago to some miner from Markham Main , who power our country , I know how much it mean to right that historical injustice , and I be proud that it be a Labour Government that have do so . I be also thrilled to see our Labour Government progress our industrial future and commit such a high level of investment in green energy project . that funding will support those skilled job opportunity that industrial city like Doncaster need . the british job bonus will help support clean power business that offer good job , such as Clean Power Hydrogen in Doncaster , which not only offer skilled work opportunity but support the production of green hydrogen . the Budget offer Doncaster the chance to once again power the country and bolster our industrial offering . the green transition be not just about climate change and protect our planet ; it also provide an opportunity for growth , offer a skill revolution and provide opportunity that will keep our city and country power well into the future . growth in city like mine will be critical in the come year for we to set up an economy of the future that benefit every corner and region of the country . I will , of course , be fight over the come day , week , month and year to ensure that Doncaster and South Yorkshire business get their fair share , because the funding and prosperity we deserve be long deny under the last government . we deserve to thrive , to be a part of Britain ' s drive to become a clean energy superpower and to dominate the global race in that grow , vital industry . this Labour Government pledge that taxis would not be increase on work people , but they could not even stick to that . it do not matter how cleverly word their manifesto be , these tax raise be undoubtedly not in the spirit of the sentiment on which labour ' s entire election campaign be found . small business have be leave reel by the measure impose on they . Duncan Blake be a gp at the Priory Fields practice in Huntingdon . I recently visit the practice and discuss some of the challenge it face . he warn how the increase in national insurance contribution and the lowering of the threshold will serve only to undermine access and patient care , in addition to the significant financial pressure that GP practice already face . practice such as Priory Fields be wed to the NHS and dependent upon it for funding . there be no ability to increase price to absorb increase cost . gp practice be not eligible for employment allowance , so will bear the full brunt of these rise . why be the Government not treat GP practice like other part of the NHS and reimburse those cost ? do my hon . friend agree that the increase in employer national insurance contribution will impact charity , as well as business and GP surgery ? they include the Children ' s Trust in Tadworth , in my constituency , which be a lead charity that provide support to child with brain injury . that charity now need to find an additional significant — order . intervention must be brief . I think the hon . Lady have make her point . I agree with my hon . friend . in my constituency , farmer have be leave reel by the Government ' s ruinous family farm tax that effectively end the family farm through their reckless slashing of agricultural property relief , yet the Government repeatedly claim there would be no tax rise on " work people " . be the Government honestly suggest that farmer be not " work people " ? those on the Government Benches make repeat assurance over the past year . the duplicity of the Labour party on this issue be breathtake . at last year ' s Country Land and Business Association conference , the now Environment Secretary state that " we have no intention of change APR . " the CLA have say that the change could harm 70 , 000 UK farm , declare it a " betrayal " that " put dynamite beneath the livelihood of british farming . " the Prime Minister and the Environment Secretary be more than happy to leverage support from the countryside , with glossy photoshoot of ramble around the countryside in designer wellie . indeed , the Prime Minister be very eager to make his pitch to rural community during his Country Life article and photoshoot in September last year , in which he say : " the need for stability now be urgent : farmer need to plan for the long term more than ever before . " I doubt farmer be expect that long - term planning to include be force to sell 20 % of their farm , make they unviable , or take a 20 % loan to cover those cost , potentially saddle the next generation with debt that farming be not profitable enough to repay . only yesterday , the Chancellor state on the BBC that : " only a very small number of agricultural property will be affect " . a £ 1 million farm be 100 acre . accord to defra ' s agricultural fact summary , publish the day after the Budget , on 31 October , the average UK farm size be just over 200 acre . how can the Chancellor make her claim when the relevant Government Department have itself contradict her position ? give the speed and alacrity with which the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero have cover the countryside with solar panel , it should come as no surprise that the Government be so eager to force farmer out of business , free up swathe of the countryside to be sell to developer for more of the same . the Government will be force into row back on this policy , whether it be now or after the visual spectacle of demonstrate farmer blockade Parliament Square with tractor . I urge the Government to do the right thing now , rather than be force to do so in a few week . this weekend I hold a surgery at a great place call the St Giles ' centre in Copmanthorpe . the day start with a coffee morning and end with a beer festival . thankfully , I be not misunderstood when request a strong brew , but sadly I hear some sobering story from my constituent . I meet one constituent stick in housing full of damp , another battle for an education , health and care plan , and a sub - postmaster yet to receive compensation ; these be the everyday tragedy that our constituent face after 14 year of failure . the Budget matter to they because they have be let down for far too long , and this historic Budget — the first ever deliver by a woman — rise to the challenge . work people want the Government to give they bang for their buck . we say that we would protect work people ' s payslip , and that be exactly what we do . let I start with education . I know the pressure that school face under the Tories , not least because my wife be a genuinely inspirational teacher , so I be pleased that we have turn the page , with a £ 2 . 3 billion increase in the core school budget , the recruitment of new teacher and action on the reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete crisis . a constituent recently write to I about their child , who have be unable to attend full school full time since the start of 2023 due to insufficient funding to support their additional need . due to the crisis in special educational need and disability funding , as every day go by that child lose crucial opportunity to develop key social skill , but the extra £ 1 billion of funding — a 6 % real - term increase — that we have commit to will change that . our school will get the support they need under this Labour Government . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions open today ' s debate , and I know that the Labour Government , as they do from 1997 to 2010 , will do everything in their power to bring down poverty . I be also delighted that extra resource will be dedicate to tackle fraudster , after the Crown Prosecution Service recently prosecute an advanced organise crime group that defraud taxpayer in an industrial - scale benefit fraud . I welcome the anti - fraud funding announcement . I be proud that the Government be make the most of a tough economic inheritance and meet the need of my constituent . I do , however , welcome the previous comment of the right hon . member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) on Budgets . she praise fuel duty freeze , back build more home , welcome extra pothole funding and support increase the national living wage , so I presume that during her first appearance at the Dispatch Box as Leader of the Opposition on Wednesday , she will welcome this Budget . our Budget be a downpayment to get our future back ; it will protect work people , and we should be proud of it . this year , in Bath alone , more than 4 , 000 patient wait over 12 hour in A & E . get see quickly can be a matter of life and death , and with a lot of extra funding now come forward , my constituent in Bath must see tangible change quickly . I welcome the extra investment in the NHS , but I would have like to have hear direct mention of eat disorder service in the Budget . eat disorder be a national emergency . they have the high mortality rate among mental health disorder , and there be over 1 . 2 million sufferer in the UK . the illness have see an alarming rise , especially since covid , yet the current service and funding be a fraction of what be require . between 2015 and 2019 , for example , eat disorder account for just 1 % of the UK ' s mental health research funding . charity be become completely overwhelmed amid nhs capacity issue . the charity sweda in my constituency see a 150 % increase in people seek support in 2023 compare to pre - pandemic figure . we can not depend on charity to plug the gap . it be unforgivable that since the urgent referral waiting time target for child and adolescent eat disorder service be set in 2021 , they have never be achieve . at the end of 2023 - 24 , more than 10 , 000 child have enter treatment for an eat disorder , but 12 % of they be wait over three month — three time the target for a routine referral . even more alarmingly , an access and waiting time standard do not even exist for adult . delay to eat disorder treatment can be fatal . some sufferer be now be tell that they be too ill to be treat , and the only treatment offer be palliative care . this be tragic and totally unacceptable . eat disorder be treatable and sufferer can make a full recovery . it be shameful beyond word to give up on they . I urge the Government to take eat disorder seriously and ensure that service be meet the need of sufferer , and that the funding that be so desperately need be make available . I would like to say more about care provider , but I do not have time . I urge the Government to look at they in the round , not just to make exemption for public service provider . I congratulate the new Leader of the Opposition on her election . she say that she will be honest about what her party get wrong over the last 14 year , but I listen to she on tv yesterday and all that she would admit be that under her party standard have start to slip . standard have start to slip ? that be the understatement of the decade . seven million people on NHS waiting list , taxis at a 70 - year high and mortgage shoot up by hundred of pound overnight . that be not standard slip ; that be take a wreck ball to our public service and our economy . that be why people vote for change . this Labour Budget start to deliver that change . instead of austerity , we be choose investment in public service . instead of economic chaos , we be choose growth , and to pay for it — because clear up the Conservatives ' mess have to be pay for — we be choose to protect work people ' s pay packet , with no increase in national insurance or income tax in work people ' s pay packet . in fact , all of the 7 , 200 people in Ealing Southall who be on the national minimum wage will receive more money in their pay packet because of this Labour Budget . raise the youth rate to £ 10 an hour be a great first step towards achieve equality for young worker in Ealing Southall , and hundred of carer in Ealing Southall will be able to earn more money and still get their allowance . last month , I visit west Ealing jobcentre , which be the big in west London . More than 170 staff work there , but when I ask what help a disabled person could get to go back to work they do not have an answer . as a trade unionist , I represent disabled worker for many year . so many of they want to work but be push out of their job because there be no support . there be 3 million people off work on a long - term sickness absence . many would love to work , but the health service be not set up to support they and jobcentre do not have the right tool to help . that be why I welcome this Labour Budget ' s investment of £ 240 million to get Britian work . many of my constituent in Ealing Southall want a job , but they need help with English and with their cv , and they need mental health support , so the Secretary of State ' s plan to bring jobcentre , career service , skill provider and health service together will make a huge difference . today ' s debate be about work people , but litter and fly - tipping be so important to my resident , and well run council such as Ealing be face severe budget pressure . the spring comprehensive spending review be an opportunity to ensure that Ealing have the resource to deliver for resident , from clean the street to social care . austerity and economic chaos be the choice of the previous Conservative Government . if the opposition would like to make different choice , this be their chance to put those choice forward . we have hear nothing today . this Labour Government be proudly and purposely choose growth , choose investment in public service , and choose to protect work people ' s pay packet . the Chancellor ' s Budget last week be a shocking demonstration of economic illiteracy . the Government often speak about growth , but all the Budget show be a disdain for wealth creator , and it betray family business and farmer — reminiscent of the damage that the Labour party cause in the 1970 . conservative Members know that we can not tax our way to growth . my constituent in Meriden and Solihull East be particularly dismay by the trail of broken manifesto commitment , and the high debt burden and tax burden , with taxis be put up by £ 40 billion . they be particularly angry about the disdain show for our rural community and small business . the Government often talk about they be the lifeblood of our community , but that be more than just a slogan . I will focus on farming in the limited time I have . as the proud representative of a number of family farm , I speak on behalf of many constituent who be appal by the Budget . our farmer work seven day a week , 365 day a year , to keep food on our table , and they nurture our green and pleasant land . they work no matter the weather , and be vulnerable to it like no other worker in any other industry in the country . the Chancellor argue that the tax on family farm be necessary to support our public service , but she clearly fail to recognise that those farm also provide a public service . they put food on our table , ensure our food security and protect our rural heritage . the Chancellor ' s betrayal of our rural community through the family farm tax will have damaging consequence for farmer and everyone in the country . I welcome the intervention from Jeremy Clarkson and the NFU president Tim Bradshaw , who today make argument about the deepen mental health crisis in our rural community . the Chancellor must recognise that farming be not a hobby or pastime for the land class ; it be an engine that drive our food security and sustain our rural community . farmer do not have huge bank account to pay death tax bill . the Budget will lead to an exodus of farmer , undermine our food security and make everyone more vulnerable to global instability . we should not be surprise by the measure . the Labour party include only 87 word on the farming industry in its manifesto , which I think be particularly disrespectful . I would talk about the billion that our small business contribute to our high street , but I will talk instead about fuel duty . my hon . friend the Member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) be very kind to mention I early , but there be 73 conservative Members of Parliament who write to the Chancellor , and 131 , 000 people sign the petition . just two week ago , Government briefing reveal that they be go to raise fuel duty by 7p . we be able to force a u - turn and protect the freeze on fuel duty . what do this Labour party stand for ? it do not stand for small business on the high street , it do not stand for our farm or rural community , it do not stand for hard - work family , and it certainly do not stand for work people . I congratulate hon . friend who have make maiden speech today . I be proud to stand in support of this Labour Budget — the first Labour Budget in 14 year , and the first ever Budget present by a female Chancellor . the Budget deliver the large settlement for the Scottish Government in the history of devolution . it mean an additional £ 1 . 5 billion for the Scottish Government to spend in this financial year , and an additional £ 3 . 4 billion next year . the UK Labour Government be deliver a total of £ 47 . 7 billion for Scotland ' s budget in 2025 - 26 . it be notable that on yet another day of debate on the Budget , not a single Scottish National party Member have choose to grace these green Benches . the Budget keep our promise to the people of Scotland , end the era of austerity and provide billion for investment in our public service . it be a truly redistributive Budget that ensure that those who have the least benefit the most . the word " redistribution " will not be welcome for some Opposition Members , but the vast majority of my Paisley and Renfrewshire South constituent do not have the luxury of private jet travel . they would be happy with an improvement to the bus service between Johnstone and Paisley , which , of course , the Scottish Government at Holyrood might be able to deliver if they choose to invest this record - break settlement in our public service . I welcome the 6 . 7 % increase in the national living wage — a massive improvement — deliver in the Budget . that mean an extra £ 1 , 400 on average for a full - time worker , and be a significant move towards deliver a genuine living wage — one that will directly benefit over 3 , 800 people across Renfrewshire . the SNP must now ensure that the additional funding be provide directly to our local public service and reach the frontline to bring down the waiting list in our NHS , raise attainment in our school and bridge the £ 585 million budget gap face our local council in Scotland . I commend the Budget to the House . while I welcome aspect of the Budget , include investment in the NHS and the review of carer ' s allowance , I want to express my deep concern about the negative impact that this Budget will have on family farm and rural community . farmer in my constituency be already navigate immense financial challenge , from the rise cost of machinery and equipment to punish weather pattern — repeat heatwave and flooding — and now face increase in national insurance contribution and change to agricultural property relief . for Derek Wilkinson , one of the hard - work farmer in my constituency , the increase to national insurance contribution could mean £ 490 , 000 in extra cost this year alone , reduce the amount of money available for investment in the farm . with the change to agricultural property relief , the Government risk impose a family farm tax that could sound the death knell for countless small family - own farm across the UK . farming be a way of life , often pass on from generation to generation , but the next generation of farmer face a tax bill just to be able to continue to farm . these change be not only unfair , but deeply short - sighted : without support , family farm will increasingly fall into the hand of large multinational corporation , erode our rural community and threaten our domestic food security . for example , as one of my family farming constituent write to I today , land value be much high than the earning capacity it hold . if my constituent be to sell part of their land or another asset to pay the tax bill , that would render their business unviable . farmer be not only custodian of the land : they be the backbone of our rural economy , yet under this Budget , they will be force to make painful cut or , in the bad case , sell their land . the Government should focus on reverse tax cut for the big bank and ask large corporation such as the social medium giant to pay their fair share , rather than place the burden on hard - work farmer and rural business . if we truly value our farmer , we must protect not only their ability to continue to farm and plan for succession , but Britain ' s proud tradition of small , independent family farm — farm with root stretch back generation . farm land be not merely a financial asset : it be a legacy of community , stewardship , sustainability and high standard of food production . we must stand by our rural community and ensure family farm have the support they need to thrive for generation to come , so I urge the Government to review their policy so that family farm be not penalise . this be a Budget for change — a Budget that recognise the need to fix the foundation of our economy . for too long , million of people across the country have be deny opportunity to work and build a well life . too many child be grow up in poverty , harm their life chance . in Warrington South , there be now 1 , 000 more child in poverty than there be in 2015 , and more than 68 % of those child come from a home where a parent work . sadly , in some part of my constituency , child poverty rate be as high as 43 % . but poverty be not just a statistic : behind every number be a person . poverty be a barrier that stand between potential and reality — between dream and opportunity — and it be unacceptable that there be parent and carer in Warrington South who go hungry just to ensure their child can have an evening meal . poverty affect every aspect of a person ' s life , from their average life expectancy to their general health , their social wellbeing , what grade they can achieve at school and their ability to contribute to society . across Warrington South and across the country , people be badly let down by the last government , with their legacy of economic chaos , fall living standard and break public service . I therefore welcome this Government ' s plan to tackle these issue , drive down poverty and rebuild our public service . this be a Budget that protect the payslip of work people and will boost pay for over 3 million of the lowest - pay worker , with an increase to the minimum wage . it be a plan to get Britain work again , with trailblaze devolution agreement in work and skill , and more than £ 20 billion of additional funding for the NHS to cut waiting time , increase appointment and help to get people back to work — I look forward to meet with the Health Secretary to discuss Warrington hospital . we will employ more teacher to support the next generation to achieve their full potential , and roll out breakfast club across the country , because no child should go to school hungry . we be support people across Warrington South by preserve the pension triple lock and increase pension , reduce the cap on deduction from universal credit , increase carer ' s allowance and provide more than £ 1 billion in household support funding , allocate an additional £ 1 . 8 billion to expand childcare , and allocate additional funding to transform the apprenticeship levy into a growth and skill levy . in July , this country vote for change . we vote to treat people with dignity and respect , to lift up the vulnerable and to offer hope and opportunity for all . this Budget mark the first step in a new direction . we will fix the foundation and rebuild our public service . this be an old Labour Budget . it increase spending by £ 70 billion a year , fund by an extra £ 40 billion in taxis and £ 30 billion in borrowing — I be sure the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) be very proud of the Chancellor . this will lead to high inflation , high interest rate and high national debt — not my word , but the view of the Office for Budget Responsibility . if the british people have vote for such a Budget , I would not like it , but I would not complain . in its manifesto , the Labour party say it would increase spending by £ 11 billion . it say its proposal be fully cost and fully fund . that be the mandate on which it be elect . so where do the figure of £ 70 billion come from ? even if we believe the fairy story of the black hole , 11 plus 22 do not equal 70 . when my party say that Labour ' s plan would mean a tax rise worth £ 2 , 000 for every work family , the Chancellor call we liar . in fairness , we be wrong . the actual figure turn out to be £ 3 , 600 . ever since the election , the Chancellor have repeat the canard that her poor economic inheritance justify these enormous tax and spending increase , but we know that Labour always intend to increase taxis and borrow by far more than it admit to the british public . this be a Budget of broken promise that will hit my constituency hard . Bridgwater be home to many small and medium - sized business . those sme be run by people who work hard , generate wealth and provide employment for other in their community . their reward from Labour be a tax rise that will cost they £ 758 a year to employ someone earn the new minimum wage . that will reduce the number of people employ . it will reduce private investment . labour ' s increase in inheritance tax be a spiteful attack on those with family business and farm . it be an attack on aspiration and enterprise . this Government have little understanding that even modest farm require a great deal of capital in the form of land , building and machinery . if this be tax at 20 % on the death of the owner , that will lead to family farm be break up , which will damage our rural community and undermine Britain ' s food security . labour ' s policy will damage Britain and make we all the poor . it be clear that a lot of Tories do not like this Budget , but that be not because it raise taxis — because after all , they themselves raise taxis to a post - war high . why do they not like it ? they do not like it because this budget expose their model of a low - pay , low - investment economy — a model that have totally fail . it fail to produce anything other than anaemic growth , dire productivity and broken public service . among the few mea culpa utter by those on the Opposition Benches in the last few day be the admission that the last Government have indeed " waste huge amount of money " , but just as damn be the huge amount of talent and potential that they waste . under this Budget , people who want to work will get the work , the pay and the dignity they deserve . the Tories let down parent who have be hold back by a lack of affordable , costed childcare . they let down young people on the minimum wage — I be delighted that the minimum wage be now rise to £ 10 an hour for 18 to 20 - year - old . they let down people in work on universal credit , people struggle to feed their family . in Rochdale , the number of child in relative poverty rise from 45 % in 2022 to a staggering 49 % in 2023 . most damn of all , however , be the spiral economic inactivity that the Conservatives preside over : a record 2 . 8 million people lock out of work due to long - term sickness . that be just one reason why the £ 22 billion this Budget direct to the NHS be desperately need . by grind down our public service , the last government pile cost upon cost for ordinary people . think of the number of people force to spend thousand of pound go private for a hip or knee op , an operation they should have have for free on the NHS . think of the thousand of pound - worth of damage to car cause by pothole on road leave to rot . think of those force to fork out for a taxi to get to work , to the shop or to hospital because their local bus have not turn up or the train have be cancel . think of all the experienced talent leave the NHS , our school and our police force because their pay be cut in real term and they face crippling staff shortage on a daily basis . those be the people to whom we owe a debt of gratitude and investment . the new Leader of the opposition claim yesterday that partygate have be " overblown " , yet the define image of partygate be low - pay cleaner and security staff in No . 10 have to clean up the vomit , the broken bottle and the wine stain leave behind by an entitle few . this government now have to clean up the financial mess that the Tories have leave behind and fix the public service that they break . this Budget be strongly promote as a blueprint for growth , so it have come as a considerable surprise to find that the growth forecast for the second half of this Parliament have actually go down . somewhere hide here be a much well Budget try to get out . the Government have try to target what be suppose to be bastion of wealth and privilege , but catch in the crossfire be all kind of people they never mean to touch . the winter fuel payment cut be suppose to fall on wealthy pensioner who do not really need the money , but it will also hit vulnerable people on a basic £ 11 , 500 state pension . vat on private schooling be suppose to tax the Etons and Harrows of the world , but it also hit hundred of small school such as Pennthorpe preparatory school in my constituency , which play a key role in provide for SEND child , and Christ ' s Hospital , a remarkable school that take 70 % of its pupil from disadvantaged background . the change in inheritance tax be aim at wealthy farmer , but also threaten to wipe out a fantastic tradition of family farming that have literally shape our countryside over generation . wherever we look , there be just too much collateral damage , but the big rise , the one that be do all the heavy lifting , be the jump in employer ' national insurance . surely it be not the Chancellor ' s intention to undermine GP surgery , hospice , independent care home and grow business , yet that be exactly what be set to happen . I realise that the last Government leave so many public service in crisis that it would be impossible to fix everything at once . they raid vital investment fund for day - to - day spending . they never understand that strong public service be just as essential to economic growth as business - friendly regulation . the last Chancellor , the right hon . member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) , behave recklessly when he twice cut employee national insurance rate in the tooth of warning from the International Monetary Fund . he dig the hole , and now the country have slide gently into it . however , swinge from one ideological extreme to another be not the solution . this Budget feel suspiciously like Labour circa 2000 , but at that time the country be in well shape , and the same plan will not work twice . this Budget be a serious attempt to deal with the crisis in public service , and I respect that , but the original vision have be lose in translation . this be a growth budget , but without the growth . I urge the Chancellor to refocus around her original first principle : growth . this Budget set out the first step in the Work and Pensions Secretary ' s plan to drive up opportunity and drive down poverty in every corner of the land . the choice make in this House have real and lasting consequence . the state of our country today be a direct result of the action of the conservative party over the past 14 year . in my short time as an MP , I have receive thousand of piece of correspondence from constituent . a young man who recently write to I be thrilled to have pass his drive theory test , yet the system simply can not accommodate he : the early appointment for a practical test be six month away . I have hear from a father who have be try for two year to find an NHS dentist who will register his young daughter as a patient . I have have an email from a woman with severe mobility issue who be trap in her front room while stick on a waiting list for suitable social housing . even if a house become available , she will have to compete with other resident because there simply be not enough affordable home . those example paint a picture of life in Britain after 14 year of conservative failing . now , under this Labour Government and with this new Budget , there be at last a glimpse of hope . I be delighted that the Budget will bring £ 25 billion into our NHS . together with my fellow Bolton Members of Parliament , I be determined to fight for local dentist service and to secure development at Royal Bolton hospital , especially in the maternity unit , where RAAC have be detect . I also highlight the £ 5 billion for house building and £ 3 . 4 billion for the warm home plan . this investment will provide access to quality affordable housing for work people , a transformative change for family in my constituency . follow discussion with the Minister responsible for local growth and building safety , my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham North and Kimberley ( Alex Norris ) , I be incredibly proud to announce that we finally have sign - off for investment in Bolton town centre . after much uncertainty and confusion cause by the previous Government , this funding will be transformative for Bolton . I be pleased to see this Government take town like mine seriously . finally , we promise not to raise taxis on work people ' s payslip , and we have keep that promise . I be pleased to share that over 8 , 700 people in Bolton North East will see a pay rise because of the increase in the minimum wage . our choice matter , and this Budget be how we choose to deliver change . this be a Budget that invest in our future , revitalise our NHS and build a fair , more ambitious Britain . rise — Order . I plan to call the first Front - Bench spokesman at 9 . 40 pm . that mean that many hon . member will not get in , but there will be more Budget debate opportunity tomorrow and on Wednesday . I will reduce the speak limit to two minute after the next speaker . I call Nick Timothy . what a relief , Madam Deputy Speaker — thank you . before the election , Labour promise to increase taxis by £ 8 . 5 billion , spend by £ 9 . 5 billion and borrow by £ 3 . 5 billion , but last week it raise taxis by £ 40 billion , spend by £ 76 billion and borrow by £ 36 billion . there be no mandate whatever for this Budget . I agree with one claim make by the Chancellor : our economy do need investment to grow . the pity be that her Budget will fail to do it . the Red Book say that the capital budget for the Department for Transport will be cut by 3 . 1 % by 2025 - 26 . the Chancellor say that she want to crowd in private investment , but the OBR say that her budget crowd it out . we know that much of the public investment will be waste on the Energy Secretary ' s scheme . the Chancellor be give he borrow billion to guarantee return to investor for technology that the market do not back . because the Chancellor have change the accounting rule — something that in opposition she say she would not do — we know that the cost of fail investment will be hide and they will be present as asset with fictional value . this be where the Chancellor be lead we into dangerous territory . she have already make Government borrow more expensive , and the bond market be tricky than they be . british pension fund now own only about a quarter of outstanding gilt . demand be fall as define - benefit scheme have close and exist scheme mature . the value of gilt need to be sell each year be about £ 140 billion , which be 5 % of gdp , and gilt yield have rise since the Budget . even if interest rate be cut this week , they will stay high for long because of her decision . and for what ? the Chancellor admit that growth in GDP per capita will average only 1 . 2 % a year for the rest of the decade . she be tax family farm . she be tax business and GPs . she be tax job , and business be already plan to reduce headcount . we know she will be back for more , because she will not cut departmental budget as she forecast from 2026 - 27 . we know that the priority be not growth . if it be , the Chancellor would not have announce such a relentlessly anti - business Budget . instead , the priority be labour ' s own vested interest , because if public sector productivity be the goal , why hose money at the union without link pay to reform and why make it easy to strike ? where be the supply - side plan to reduce the cost of build infrastructure ? there be no sign that the Government want to strip back the layer of regulation , when its beneficiary be labour - support vested interest such as environmental and administrative lawyer . this Budget do not fail because of its dishonesty and absence of mandate , but because it fail in its own term . it tax and borrow and spend , and its own small print say that it will fail to improve growth , wage , public service and the public finance . every child deserve access to quality , tailor education , and this Budget will well equip school and early year setting to deliver it . in Dudley , 14 % of child and young people have SEND support , which be 2 percentage point high than the average . the Government be invest £ 1 billion in SEND , which be crucial and a welcome step towards a more inclusive future for all child . SEND funding be not just investment in education ; it be a foundation for a compassionate society where every child can thrive . this Budget be not just about education ; it be about other public service too , include the NHS . our NHS be the bedrock of community wellbee , and additional funding be critical to address the increase demand from an age population and the last effect of the pandemic . at the Dudley Group NHS foundation trust , nearly 50 , 000 people be wait to start treatment , with only 57 % of those patient see within 18 week , compare with the NHS target of 92 % . those delay place a heavy burden on family and individual alike . by invest in primary care , mental health service and essential technological upgrade , we be equip the NHS to reduce waiting time and improve service delivery , which will not only improve individual ’ life , but reinforce the workforce and productivity . Dudley College of Technology ' s centre for advanced manufacturing and engineering technology be perfectly position to lead the way in bridge the skill gap . it will anchor the industrial strategy and train the next generation in high - skilled job , transform Dudley into a hub where tradition meet innovation . through these investment , Dudley can become a central player in the UK ' s journey to sustainable growth , bolster our economy and create high - pay job that attract talent . after year of stagnant growth , it be time to push forward with this Budget . my constituent will have be listen to the Chancellor last week and hope for some specific on new money for our hospital . Stepping Hill remain the no . 1 concern raise with I in my inbox and on the doorstep . it have a report repair backlog of more than £ 130 million , which be a sad legacy of the last fail Government . we have see building have to be knock down because they be no long safe . we have video footage of medic have to wade through flood corridor because of burst pipe , and within the past fortnight a couple have share photo with I of a light fitting that fall from the ceiling in the delivery suite during active labour , only minute before the baby arrive . we be disappoint to get a letter from the Minister for Secondary Care , the hon . member for Bristol South ( Karin Smyth ) , in the past couple of week to say that the Government be unable to commit the funding need to fix the problem . we have have some encouraging indication from the Chancellor about funding , but there be a lack of clarity on what this Budget mean for Stepping Hill . our health and social care system be in crisis . we need to ensure that everyone can see a gp within seven day and that we support our hospice and fund dental service , and we should not subject GPs , hospice and dentist to a substantial tax rise , as the Budget have do . we need to prevent people from need to go into hospital in the first place and enable they to leave when they be medically fit to do so , rather than have they wait on a ward for far too long for a social care placement to be sort for they . real action on social care be essential , because without it , the NHS crisis will not end . I encourage the Government to urgently start cross - party talk to make social care sustainable . as the Lib Dem home affair spokesperson , I be hope to hear more about proper community and neighbourhood policing . if I have have another couple of minute , I would have make an incisive point about bus fare . the Budget be a strong first step in deliver a well future for our country , for town such as Westhoughton , Horwich , Blackrod and Bolton , and for restore the trust that be so vital for our democratic system . after all , this be a Budget that will increase the national living wage — by £ 1 , 400 for a full - time worker — and invest £ 25 . 6 billion in the NHS so that my constituent can access health service when and where they need they instead of wait hour on end , as well as crack down on fraud , tax avoidance and waste so that every penny of taxpayer ' money be put to good use . fully fund the electrification of the Bolton to Wigan train line will make a tremendous difference to the rail network for those travel to work and to see love one in my constituency . I commend the Government for commit to invest in public infrastructure across the Bolton borough . parent , teacher and school staff across my constituency have tell I time and again that current funding for education be simply inadequate . that be why I be so pleased to see an extra £ 1 billion for special educational need , the breakfast club budget triple , and a £ 2 . 3 billion increase in the core school budget . I particularly welcome the additional £ 1 . 4 billion allocate to rebuild 500 school , note that St Bernard ' s roman catholic primary school in my constituency be find to contain aerate concrete . the conservative party increase taxis to their high rate for work people in more than 70 year , so I welcome the raising of much - need cash for public service by put up taxis on unearned wealth , but that do not mean that the Budget be anti - business — not at all . as someone who work for over a decade in the private sector , I know that a strong , business - friendly economy be need to deliver prosperity for work people and decent public service . the Government be make tough choice , but fair choice . I commend they to the House . I start by put on the record my sheer admiration for a constituent of mine , Clive Smith , who be chair of the Haemophilia Society and have long fight for compensation follow the infected blood scandal . this have be a long and painful journey for many , and I welcome the measure for victim in the Budget , build on the measure announce by the previous Administration . last night I speak to a family - run business in my constituency that have be operate for over two decade . during the general election , the Labour party in Keighley and Ilkley knock on my constituent ' s door and promise that a Labour Government would back business like hers , and she believe it . like many people across the country , she be reassure time and again that this so - call Government of service would not raise taxis on work people like she . as a result of last week ' s Budget , my constituent now face tax increase of over 130 % . that complete hammer blow on a local family business in my constituency could force she to freeze wage , raise price and even consider the business ' s future , all to the detriment of those same work people that the Labour party in my constituency promise to represent . that will be the reality not only for my constituent but for many other business right across the country . the Federation of Small Businesses , the Institute of Directors , the british Beer and Pub Association , Family Business UK , ukhospitality and make UK — the list go on — have all make it clear and warn business that the Budget will hit they hard . the independent Office for Budget Responsibility say that 76 % of cost incur by the rise in employer ' national insurance will be pass on to worker , and the Joseph Rowntree Foundation estimate that the average family business would be £ 770 bad off , yet we have Cabinet member constantly say that everything be okay . like my hon . friend , during the election campaign my team and I knock on ten of thousand of door and speak to people struggle with the cost of live and to local resident genuinely worried about the future . they be worried about afford rent , about mortgage cost and about the path forward for their child , especially those with special educational need and disability . we listen and promise change — and what a change Wednesday ' s Budget be . it be a Budget that be fair and responsible . it be a Budget that fix the foundation , stabilise our economy and pave the way to deliver our manifesto . it be a Budget with a clear route to protect work people , include the 8 , 700 employee live in Wolverhampton North East who be pay at or below the national minimum wage . today , more than 33 % of child in my constituency live in poverty . this Budget triple spending for breakfast club so that child can start the day fit to learn . a £ 500 million investment in council housing will start to address the housing crisis , which be critical for nearly 8 , 000 resident on the City of Wolverhampton council ' s bidding list , where only 260 property become available per month . additionally , the state pension will rise by £ 470 for many of our 17 , 000 pensioner . thank to the triple lock , pensioner will be well off . I be proud to support a budget that put worker and their family firmly first , and with no increase on taxis in worker ’ payslip . this government will deliver real change and fulfil our manifesto promise to rebuild our country . this be a Budget of inequality . it seem that the Chancellor decide to deliver two Budgets : one for people in city and another for rural community such as Glastonbury and Somerton . somerset be home to more farmer and food producer than anywhere else in the country . the Government ' s choice to swap the agricultural property relief for the family farm tax will be disastrous for people live in my constituency and for our rural economy . the announcement have leave many farmer in my constituency reel about the future viability of their family farm . let we imagine what it must feel like to be potentially the one who close the farm gate for the very last time , after generation of put investment , innovation , love , blood , sweat and tear into a business . well , I know how that feel , because my brother be in exactly that position . I have listen to my farming friend and neighbour , who be desperately anxious that this could be the final nail in the coffin for their cherished business . the Labour party be not the natural party of farmer . I fear that its misunderstanding of agricultural community have be reflect in its policy . APR play a significant role in the economic viability and continuity of family farm . it exist to provide confidence to family who rely on their farm as their main income source , so that the next generation could continue to provide for both their family and the nation . some farmer who be near retirement , if they have the time , the money or the foresight , may be able to swallow some of the Government ' s new family farm tax , with careful succession planning . I say some farmer , because many will not make it to retirement . it be their family that I be most worried about . agriculture be the most dangerous industry in Britian . farmer be 21 time more likely to have fatal accident than those who be work in any other industry . this be a Budget of aspiration . unlike for the past 14 year , it align itself with the aspiration of ordinary work people . for a Hartlepool constituent hope to live in a safe , secure and thriving community , the £ 21 million regeneration programme in the Budget meet their aspiration . for the 4 , 000 hartlepool resident live on the minimum wage , desperately in need of a pay rise , this Budget meet their aspiration . for the thousand of carer whose aspiration be to be able to care for their love one and still make end meet , this Budget meet their aspiration . for the parent , pupil and teacher at St Helen ' s school — specifically name check by the Chancellor in her speech — who aspire to have a building that be not crumble around they , this Budget mee their aspiration . for a small business — the lifeblood of Hartlepool ' s economy — the doubling of the employment allowance meet their aspiration . for a work family try to get by , this Budget , with its expansion of free breakfast club , the extension of the household support fund and the freezing of fuel duty , meet their aspiration . the Labour party be in the service of work people . this Budget align itself with those work people and their aspiration , in Hartlepool and across this country , and I commend it to the House . if I have time , I would focus on the increase in whisky duty , and the impact on our farmer and small business , but I will focus on the oil and gas sector , which be so crucial to the north - east of Scotland and my constituency . as expect , the oil and gas sector be a target for tax in the Budget . I welcome that first year allowance be retain , but other measure be announce that , although well trail , will severely damage the energy sector . whether it be increase the energy profit levy by 3 % , which will lead to a 78 % tax rate on our oil and gas business , extend the windfall tax to 2030 or remove investment allowance , each will compound the investment difficulty face the sector , and will impact investment and future job . the change to the windfall tax and allowance will see the Treasury receive 83 % of cashflow from oil and gas , with company take home just 17 % . that be the high share of any Government compare to other comparable offshore mature basin globally . the punitive taxation on our oil and gas sector put current , real job and career opportunity in the north - east of Scotland at risk . work people , who be the same people with the skill and expertise that we need for our energy transition , be not be protect by the Budget . the windfall tax and the removal of investment allowance also hit homegrown UK - base company the hard — the one that have emerge and grow in north - east Scotland , and the one that usually have an almost exclusively UK - base workforce . all their profit be subject to the windfall tax because their investment be all in the North sea . that be unlike multinational , which can buffer the bad impact of the windfall taxis with their overseas investment , so the change be mostly hurt our homegrown business , which we should all want to protect the most . the Budget have deliver a long - overdue increase in the living wage , welcome measure to tackle tax avoidance and money for public service . however , the reality be that there be widespread fear that the investment be not on the scale need . and that be before we consider the further 2 % cut on Departments now be impose . we need a complete re - set . introduce a wealth tax could have be one way of begin to deliver . I have already have lot of representation from constituent raise concern about today ' s topic of social security — for example , the choice to cut social security in real term , give that the uplift do not match forecasted inflation ; the continuation of the Conservatives ' freeze on personal tax allowance to 2028 ; and the reintroduction of the freeze on local housing allowance . the sad reality be that million will still be leave unable to cover essential . in east London , we know this very well . we have some of the high rate of child poverty in the entire country . last year , the safe neighbourhood team in my borough find that the most shoplift item be Calpol . that be an utterly devastating statistic , reflect heartbreaking desperation . in that light , I ask the Government to rethink the measure to scrap immunity for low - value shoplifting . the Budget be an opportunity to deliver the change that be so needed , but disappointingly punitive measure , such as the two - child limit , the benefit cap and the sanction regime remain . in the short time I have remain , I want to say something about disability benefit . the commitment to deliver the previously plan saving be more than alarming . the truth be that the way disabled people have be treat by the Department for Work and Pensions since 2010 will go down in history as a terrible and inexcusable crime . there be extensive evidence about the serious harm cause to people subject to dehumanising assessment and sanction , include report of death directly relate to the social security regime . we need a long - term overhaul of the social security system . it be not fit for purpose . I urge the Government to really look at that in detail go forward . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for save the good till last , as Cheltenham be always . because I be a liberal of generous spirit , I will begin by thank Ministers . I thank they for listen to the many appeal I have make since my election that they study the case study for investment in Cheltenham ' s cyber - security industry . after a lot of talk and be lead a merry dance by the previous Government , we finally have guarantee funding of £ 20 million for the Golden Valley development . my wholehearte thank go to Ministers . on a broad point about cyber - security , I look forward to hear more about the future cyber resilience funding in due course . minister know that the growth in our economy will stick much more easily if it be underpin by cyber - security . alongside be a cyber - security hub , my constituency also benefit from a thriving hospitality industry . sadly — and this be not such good news for Ministers — many of those business be now fear the impact of change to national insurance . they fear become a vessel for money to make its way from customer to the Exchequer , with little leave over to pay their own wage . the £ 22 billion of investment for the NHS be to be welcome , and I hope that in Cheltenham it will ensure the reopening of our birth unit and a reduction in A & E waiting time at Cheltenham General and Gloucestershire royal hospital . representative of the care sector have be in touch with I over the weekend : local authority fee , they tell I , be expect to rise by less than 5 % — below the minimum wage increase , and that be before national insurance rise be account for . one chief executive tell I that " provider will close down and reduce residential and nursing capacity " at a time when we need exactly the opposite to happen . there be also concern from the primary care sector . I hear this weekend from Dr Bob Hodges , the chair of the Gloucestershire local medical committee , who say that the most likely result of the Budget change to national insurance be that the money to fund increase national insurance cost be likely to come " straight out of the pot from which GPs be pay " . he say that risk burn good will , with knock - on impact on morale and working practice , and he fear that over time it would reduce the number of work GPs . I start with thank . let I end by urge Ministers to reconsider some of those point . I call the shadow Minister . it be a privilege to close this debate on behalf of his Majesty ' s loyal opposition . it have be about protect work people . give that many Labour Members again forget to mention the pandemic and the war on our continent , I have have to meet some of their remark with a degree of incredulity . this Budget consist purely of broken promise , show that this new Government have transparently leave their integrity in tatter . as we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) , many people feel that they have be hoodwink by Labour — and people do not forget . we can see what breaking promise do ; it decimate the Liberal Democrats some time ago , although unfortunately , like ragwort , the comeback kid be back with a bang . let I turn to some of what have be say today . the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions speak about new support for carer , and I think we all very much welcome that , but where be the update on the disability action plan ? if the Minister for Social Security and Disability , the right hon . member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , be still sit on the Opposition Front Bench , he would be ask I the same thing . far update on the disability strategy would be very welcome . I congratulate the member who make their maiden speech today . the hon . member for Huddersfield ( Harpreet Uppal ) speak about the importance of young people and the importance of the upgrade to connectivity — many of we with rural constituency would agree with what she say . the hon . member for North Somerset ( Sadik Al - Hassan ) speak about the impact on pharmacy and the fact that part of his constituency use to be an island , but he also say that the constituency contain the great National Trust site in the country . absolutely not , with Standen , Nymans and Sheffield Park in my own constituency . I also congratulate , and say " Croeso " to , the new hon . member for Wrexham ( Andrew Ranger ) , who talk about a very famous football club and the work that his predecessor Sarah Atherton have do on veteran , which I think be very praiseworthy . so much more be say today by member on both side of the House . my right hon . friend the Member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) talk about his freedom , but also about the concern about a " sugar rush " contain in the Budget . my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Immingham ( Martin Vickers ) speak about the importance of the fishing industry and the renewable energy sector , and ask what be the reality when it come to protect work people . my hon . friend the Member for Mid Leicestershire ( Mr Bedford ) talk about the concern that be feel about the taxing of education , say that the Budget be bad for small and medium - sized business and that it be about the politic of envy . it seem that Labour member do not like it describe as a socialist Budget , which I find concern , as the Prime Minister have confess that he be a socialist . it be a rather odd rejection . the hon . member for Paisley and Renfrewshire South ( Johanna Baxter ) make a very loyal speech and rightly welcome new money for Scotland . she champion redistribution , but if we tax our way to diminish growth , there be nothing to share or invest . we should all be remind of that . my hon . friend the Member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) say that there be no mandate for this Budget . it be waste money on the energy sector , fiddle the accounting figure and head into dangerous territory . I have give some response to what we have hear in the Chamber . despite many loyal speech from Labour Members , even the Chancellor and the Chief Secretary to Treasury can not deny that this be a Budget of broken promise . frankly , it be a work of pure fiction , as some have describe it . it build on a fully cost " shamfesto " , because there be no chance of actually deliver it . those on the Treasury Bench should consider the wall - to - wall evidence from the Institute for Fiscal Studies , the OBR and the Joseph Rowntree Foundation , all of which agree that work people will pay the price of this Budget . the Joseph Rowntree Foundation estimate that the average family will be £ 770 bad off in real term by October 2029 — frankly , that be nothing to crow about . wage will be stagnant or indeed reduce , job will be lose , pensioner have be betray , and young people have be leave in the lurch . food price will stay high and the energy sector will be wreck , as my hon . friend the Member for Gordon and Buchan ( Harriet Cross ) say . there be a depressing future for our country , because this Budget do nothing for work people . it be a Budget that attack the countryside and pit the public sector versus the private sector , all while leave interest rate high for long . in fact , the pub group Fuller ' s have today warn the Business Secretary that company in the sector now face an avalanche of cost . hospitality be quake , and it be a very concern Budget . in fact , the Chancellor herself admit that Labour ' s job tax , as she have call it , will have an impact on wage growth . that be back up by the OBR , which conclude that 76 % of the total cost will be feel by work people . real household disposable income will be 1 . 25 % low by 2029 . disgracefully , that will affect part - time worker , 6 million of whom be woman . let we look at the childcare sector , which be vital for woman . it provide employment but , crucially , also enable woman to go back out to work . some nursery be say that cost will rise by up to £ 60 , 000 for their business , add up to 10 % to every childcare bill send out . in my constituency , I have Faversham House and the Prime Service Group , which I meet on Friday . People have their head in their hand . family business have be in touch in their drove . I wonder whether Labour Members have ever open their email or , indeed , go back to talk to people on their high street . the Budget will affect key sector and , crucially , business confidence . as we head into the next few day of this Budget debate , Dr Brien of the Social Security Advisory Committee have set out his concern about the impact of the change to the winter fuel payment , not least the processing of pension credit claim . question remain unanswered by the Secretary of State . welfare reform have be leave open - ended , create uncertainty for million of claimant who be wait to hear an update on the Buckland review , autistic employment , and the Lilac review into sme and support entrepreneurship among disabled people and those with health condition . this Budget take we back to the ' 70 . the reality be that we will all pay the price for Labour ' s 1970s - style Budget . the Government have claim that they have take the difficult decision . no , they have not . they have leave those decision to their own constituent — those who be work out staff redundancy , the impact on their business and whether they can take on new staff member . despite the loyal speech , this be not a Budget for protect work people ; it be a desperately sad , destabilising set of Budget resolution , record spending , record debt and a record tax burden , all for very little growth . I urge the Government to think again and to listen to all of their and our constituent . I be proud that last week we see the first Labour Budget in almost 15 year deliver for the first time by a woman , my right hon . friend the Chancellor . this be recognise by my hon . friend the Members for Monmouthshire ( Catherine Fookes ) , for Basingstoke ( Luke Murphy ) and for Paisley and Renfrewshire South ( Johanna Baxter ) , and indeed by member across the House include the hon . member for South West Hertfordshire ( Mr Mohindra ) and for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) . this be a Budget for job , opportunity , investment and economic growth that drive down poverty and protect the payslip of work people . it be a Budget that invest in skill and our economic foundation and deliver the change that we promise during the election . crucially , it be a Budget that restore economic stability and begin the vital work need to rebuild our public service , which be leave in a state of ruin by the Conservatives . the NHS , school , road , affordable housing : that be the difference that a Labour Government make . this be a lively debate with many contribution from across the House and I want to congratulate all hon . member , even if I do not agree with they all , on keep to strict time limit of two or three minute . I particularly welcome my three hon . friend who give excellent maiden speech . my hon . friend the Member for Huddersfield ( Harpreet Uppal ) speak movingly and proudly about her late mum ' s role as a care worker , and speak proudly about the industrial and sporting heritage of her constituency . my hon . friend the Member for North Somerset ( Sadik Al - Hassan ) speak proudly of his constituency be home to the first mass production of penicillin . his experience as a pharmacist will be very valuable to this House . my hon . friend the Member for Wrexham ( Andrew Ranger ) explain that Wrexham association football club be the third old in the world . that be news to I , and I be glad to hear about that . he also say that his constituency be home to the world ' s old lager brewery and to other thriving brewery and major manufacturing company . I would like to thank my hon . friend for those maiden speech . many hon . friend and Members across the House welcome the Government ' s allocation of funding to two vital compensation scheme : those for the contaminated blood scandal and the Horizon Post Office scandal . the previous Government talk about those scheme but do not allocate any money for they . I know that many hon . and right hon . member be concerned about the change to agricultural property relief , so I want to say something about these change and in particular to answer the hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) , one of my neighbour . a couple who jointly own a farm will be able to pass on land and property value up to £ 3 million to a child or a grandchild tax - free . that be make up of £ 1 million when they combine their standard £ 500 , 000 tax - free allowance and an additional £ 1 million tax - free allowance each for agricultural property inheritance . I hope that give some comfort to hon . member across the House . at least the former Chancellor but one , Kwasi Kwarteng , be honest about the track record of the previous Government when he say last week : " we Tories have to be honest — Rachel Reeves be deal with our mess " . this be a once - in - a - generation Budget that turn the page on Tory austerity and economic chaos . in addition to the £ 20 billion black hole in our public finance , with the last Government spend Treasury reserve three time over , there be also a record number of people rely on food bank , 700 , 000 more child grow up poor , the big increase in economic inactivity in the UK for 40 year , million on NHS waiting list , crumble school and overflowing prison . we be determined to fix these problem . many hon . friend mention the increase to the national living wage that we have introduce , by 6 . 7 % to £ 12 . 21 per hour , which will be a pay rise for 3 . 5 million people across the country . we be also move towards a single national minimum wage for all eligible adult , start with the big - ever increase to the rate of pay for 18 to 20 - year - old , which will help nearly 200 , 000 young people — that be a difference that a Labour Government will make . in addition , our youth guarantee will help young people to fulfil their potential and follow their dream . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for give way , as she do not have much time . as an economist , she know that it be not what we spend but what we get for it — it be value for money that count . what be she specifically do about productivity , which be a perennial problem in many country , include our own ? first , we want to escape the doom loop of low growth and low productivity that we inherit from the previous Conservative Government . each Department will have to meet a 2 % productivity challenge . this be not a cut to departmental spending but a Treasury requirement to ensure well productivity across the civil service . our get Britain Working White Paper , which we will announce in the come week , will set out reform to our jobcentre and will empower local leader to tackle economic inactivity in their town and city . this be back by £ 240 million of new funding for 16 trailblazer project . it be because we recognise that many work people face extra barrier to take up work or increase their hour that the Chancellor announce the big - ever rise in the earning limit for carer ' s allowance to help carer balance work and caring responsibility . that be a difference that a Labour Government will make . we will also tackle poverty and help those most in need , which be why this Budget extend the household support fund in England and discretionary housing payment in England and Wales . after conversation with the Trussell Trust , the Joseph Rowntree Foundation and many other , we be introduce our new fair repayment rate , which will reduce the cap on deduction from universal credit from 25 % to 15 % of the standard allowance . this will help 700 , 000 of the poor household with child . and because people who have work hard and save all their life deserve security and dignity , we be maintain the triple lock , which will see state pension rise of around £ 1 , 700 over the course of this Parliament . this be the first Labour Budget in almost 15 year . we shun the choice of the last Conservative Government . they choose low growth , low productivity and decline in our public service . we choose investment and growth , restore economic stability , fix the foundation , rebuild the NHS and our other public service , push forward with a decade of national renewal , recruit more teacher , bring down NHS waiting time , build more affordable home and , yes , fill more pothole . this be a Budget that make a choice about rebuild our public service , rebuild Britain and invest in vital infrastructure . this be a Budget that invest in the future of our country , and I commend it to the House . order , that the debate be now adjourn . — ( Anna Turley . ) debate to be resume tomorrow . business without Debate Environmental Audit Ordered , that Pippa Heylings be a member of the Environmental Audit Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Northern Ireland Affairs order , that Sir Gavin Robinson be a member of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) petition order , that David Baines be a member of the Petitions Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Procedure Ordered , that James Asser , Bambos Charalambous , Sir Christopher Chope , Graeme Downie , Mary Kelly Foy , Gill Furniss , Tracy Gilbert , Gurinder Singh Josan , Frank McNally , Lee Pitcher and Michael Wheeler be member of the Procedure Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Committee of Public Accounts order , that Mr Clive Betts be a member of the Committee of Public Accounts . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Scottish Affairs order , that Stephen Flynn be a member of the Scottish Affairs Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Welsh Affairs order , that Ben Lake be a member of the Welsh Affairs Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Newport Chartist Commemorations : strengthen Democracy Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Anna Turley . ) I be back , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be grateful to Mr Speaker and to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for have grant this debate on exactly the night when the Newport rise take place 185 year ago . it be a night on which thousand of work people from across the south Wales valley march on the westgate hotel , in my constituency , in the fight for the vote and the right of ordinary people to have their voice hear . early this evening , at Newport cathedral , the annual commemoration take place at the unmarked grave of ten of more than 20 chartist who lose their life that night . I be grateful to my friend and parliamentary neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Newport West and Islwyn ( Ruth Jones ) , for cover the other end of the m4 by be there tonight and have say some lovely thing , I hear . the Newport rise be the last armed rebellion against authority in Britain . we be proud of our Chartists and proud of the role they play in shape our modern democracy . I have call the debate tonight to honour the sacrifice of our local hero , the Gwent Chartists , who remind we that the freedom and democratic right we enjoy today be secure by ordinary man and woman . it come on the eve of the United States ' election , when democracy feel fragile around the world and faith in politic in this country be low . it be incumbent on our new Labour Government to work to restore faith in politic through the way we act and in the reform we propose . I commend the hon . Lady for secure the debate . it be an important occasion , as she have express . as a proud work - class man , I be thankful for the member of the Newport Chartists , who do what good man do to secure democracy ; they put it all on the line . do the hon . Lady agree that their death bring forward the battle for a vote for all , which we often take for grant today ? do she agree that we need to educate our child about the battle for the chance to vote in order to instil the mentality that voting be a privilege , fight for with blood , sweat and tear ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention — I could not have put it well myself . I thank all the hon . member who have turn up for the debate this evening . it seem to be quite popular for an Adjournment debate at 10 pm on a Monday night , and for that I be most grateful . the Chartist movement of the 1830 and 1840 be the first mass working - class movement and be bear , in part , out of unhappiness with the Great Reform Act 1832 . pass on the third time of ask by the pro - reform Whig Government , the Act be limit in its ambition to extend the franchise , and ultimately leave most working - class people still without the right to vote . the grassroot campaign behind the push for reform in the early 1830 include organise working and middle - class group , who advocate for widen the right to vote to all tax - pay man and more . however , the campaign disband follow the passage of the disappointing Great Reform Act . those undelivered demand for reform would go on to form part of the " People ' s Charter " , from which Chartism derive its name . do the hon . Lady agree with I that if the " People ' s Charter " be draw up today , it would include have proportional voting system to elect member of this House ? I will not be draw on that particular question , but I reflect on the fact that we have a partly proportional system in Wales . Chartism be a movement base not on ideology or theory , but on the sense of disconnect between the life and unaddresse struggle of work people , and the life of those purport to represent they . the Chartists ' demand be simple : that all man — man — over 21 have the vote ; that voting should take place by secret ballot ; that constituency should be of equal size ; that member of Parliament should be pay ; that the property qualification for become a Member of Parliament should be abolish ; and that parliamentary election be hold every year — gulp ! the Chartists put together a petition to Parliament with those demand in June 1839 . the petition travel to organise branch and meeting across the country , gather 1 , 280 , 000 signature . it end up measure almost 3 mile . I be grateful to my hon . friend for secure this debate . with her permission , I would also like to commemorate for the record the event in Birmingham in 1839 , when reaction and the gathering radicalism that first find expression in the Birmingham Political Union — which do so much to shape the " People ' s Charter " — combine and ignite into the Bull Ring riot , which lead to soldier patrol the street as far south as my constituency , such be the fear that the contagion would spread . one hundred and eight - five year later , when people be still protest and die for their political right from Ukraine to Iran , do she agree that the spirit that motivate Chartism remain live , immediate and essential ? I be so glad that my hon . Friend manage to mention the Birmingham Political Union ; it be in my original draft , but I know that with intervention I would not have time to mention it . I agree wholeheartedly with his point . despite all the Chartists ' effort , the first petition be reject by 235 vote to 46 , lead to fury and unrest across the country , include in Newport . in November of that year , John Frost , a draper , town councillor , magistrate and briefly the mayor of Newport , lead thousand of Chartist sympathiser from across the south Wales valley on a march down to Newport . the Chartists march in three column from three direction — one from Blackwood , one from Nantyglo and another from Pontypool — with a plan to take the town at dawn . scupper by heavy rain , a plan meeting in Rogerstone be delay , and Jones and his man from Pontypool never arrive . as a result , the final march into Newport happen in daylight hour , with the man arrive at around 9 . 30 am . as actor Julian Lewis Jones tell Newport marcher on Saturday night : " uncertain of what await they . they face musket and bayonet , the cold sting of the night , and the loom threat of death . even in the face of all this , they march . they march because they believe in something great than themselves : the right of every person to be hear , the right to shape their own destiny . . . the right to vote . story of their journey be few and far between , but we know it be wet and cold . their boot squelch on the waterlogge ground , their rain - soak coat cling to weary shoulder . each of these man be ordinary people : miner , farmer , artisan , labourer — drive by their cause . " do my hon . friend agree that we should thank and be grateful to academic historian and lie historian who have keep the Chartist history alive , like my uncle , Les James ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend in commend Les James ; I spend much of Saturday afternoon with Chartist historian , and it be great that she mention Les . on the way down through the Gwent valley and to the town centre , some of the Chartists be arrest and detain at the westgate hotel in the centre of Newport . this spur on Chartists from the nearby industrial town , many of whom be armed , with the intent of free their fellow Chartists . not many member in this House may know that at the time of the Newport rise , Newport be in fact part of Monmouthshire , so my hon . friend and I have very strong link between our constituency . do she agree that this Labour Government be continue the great work of strengthen our democracy by give the vote to 16 and 17 - year - old as the Welsh Labour Government have already do in Wales ? I thank my lovely hon . friend and constituency next - door neighbour ; I be come to that point , and I absolutely agree with she . when the Chartists arrive at the Westgate , a firefight ensue between the marcher and soldier deploy to protect the hotel . no one know who fire the first shot . More than 20 Chartists be shoot and kill with dozen more injured , and 10 of the body lie to this day in unmarked grave around the site of Newport cathedral . the three leader of the Newport rise — John Frost , William Jones and Zephaniah Williams — be arrest , try for treason , and sentence to death . they have intend to inspire a domino effect of uprising across the country , and they be regard as working - class hero and martyr . follow outcry from the public , and even from the Lord Chief Justice , the three chartist leader ' death sentence be later commute to transportation for life to Australia . frost would eventually be unconditionally pardon , receive a triumphant welcome back to Newport on his return . he continue to campaign for democratic reform until his death in 1877 . eventually , five of the six demand set out in the " People ' s Charter " be deliver . I be sure that parliamentary colleague and our constituent alike will be pleased , follow our experience of face four general election in nine year , that the sixth demand — the prospect of annual election — be not carry forward . will the hon . member give way ? I ought to make some progress so that the Minister have time to speak . we be proud of our Chartist heritage in Newport . it be always move to join political colleague from across Newport , and constituent of all age and background , for the annual commemoration . this year be no different . after a day of event in Newport ' s city centre last Saturday , and the annual chartist convention at the cathedral , which I have the pleasure of chairing in the afternoon , more than 1 , 500 people join the Newport rise march , flame torch hold high — they be quite scary — follow in the footstep of the Chartists , from Belle Vue Park down Stow Hill to the Westgate , before head to a night of Chartist - theme performance from Reality Theatre at the Cab and a night of live music at the Corn Exchange with Adwaith . the Newport rise festival be a real highlight of Newport ' s calendar . huge thank to the Newport rise group , particularly David Daniel , Melinda Drowley and the Our Chartist Heritage charity for their work in put the programme together . it seem to grow every year , and the group have a permanent hub now in our city centre , but the Chartist heritage belong not just to Newport . there be a mini - exhibition of Chartist history in the corridor on the way to the Public Gallery , which include a photograph of John Frost take shortly after his return to the UK from Australia after have be pardon . I echo the call by the late , great Paul Flynn , the former Member for Newport West , who regularly bemoan the lack of representation of working - class and progressive movement and their history in this Palace . in a business question in 2011 , he say : " certain element in our constitution be well represent in the Palace of Westminster with statue , portrait and stain - glass window , but there be almost a total absence of memorial to progressive group , such as the Chartists … that do so much to shape all that be good in our modern democracy . " — [ Official Report , 14 July 2011 ; Vol . 531 , c . 496 . ] perhaps we might take the opportunity of the 185th anniversary of the Newport rise to ensure that lesser - celebrate part of our heritage be reflect among the many wonder across the parliamentary estate . I thank the hon . member for bring forward tonight ' s debate so that we can pay a special tribute to the role that Wales have play in form our democracy over the year , but be she not concerned that the propose new system for election in Wales , whereby one vote will return six Senedd Members , threaten to undermine the spirit of democracy as the Chartists understand it ? I be sure that it do not . I will not be draw into talk about the Welsh election in tonight ' s debate , but it be a system that have be devise by the Welsh Senedd and vote on , and I be sure that it be one in which people will be able to participate fully when the election come in 2026 . the message of the Chartists be more important than ever , especially today , on the eve of the US election and amid global turmoil . we have witness Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine , electoral uncertainty in Moldova , increase threat to Taiwan from China , and more . threat to democracy globally be manifest in different way but all combine to make people feel that politic and democracy can not fix anything , yet have our say , from vote to engage with our politician , take part in public consultation or demonstrating , matter and make a difference . we live in a world where more people than at any time in history be able to have a say in who make the rule . as all of we who sit in this place say , every vote count and can make a difference . I know that the Foreign Secretary and his fellow Ministers will hold to account , and take action against , those who seek to cynically undermine and degrade the integrity of democracy around the world , include our own , and support those fighting to protect they . close to home , 185 year after the Newport rise , work people use those same hard - win right this summer to return a majority of Labour mp in each nation and region of Great Britain , deliver a government determine to change our country . for the first time in 14 year , I be proud to be part of a Labour Government in Westminster who will , over the course of the next five year , deliver on our manifesto promise to double down on the Chartist legacy , to strengthen our democracy in the interest of work people , and to restore public trust in politic as a force for good . the hon . Lady epitomise the very thing that the Newport Chartists stand for , and I congratulate she on that . what she refer to affect everywhere in the United Kingdom . the people of Northern Ireland realise that they should also try to achieve working - class right , so what people do in Newport mean the same for we in Northern Ireland . I agree , and I thank the hon . member for make that point . this government will respond to the struggle of work people , and will not duck the necessary but difficult decision for fear of be unpopular . we will follow the example set by our Welsh Labour Government by extend the right to vote in all election to 16 and 17 - year - old . if someone can leave school , work full time and join the Army , they can be trust to have their say in the country ' s future . this Government have already introduce the House of Lords ( Hereditary Peers ) Bill to remove hereditary peer , because power should not be the inherent right of a select and aristocratic few . this government will establish an independent ethic and integrity commission , strengthen the role of the independent adviser on ministerial standard , update the ministerial code , modernise and reform House of Commons procedure , ban mps ' second job , address the inconsistency in voter ID rule that prevent people from voting , and introduce an election Bill . I be proud that the previous Labour Government bring in devolution to Wales and Scotland . it be significant that , for the first time in 14 year , we have a UK Prime Minister commit not to the fail Tory experiment of muscular Unionism , but to return power to those with skin in the game , so that we be more directly answerable and intimately connect to local people and their need , and to a Labour Government in Westminster work with , rather than against , our Welsh Labour Government to deliver for the people of Wales . that be a big change . if the Chartists teach we anything , it be that Westminster do not always know good . I warmly welcome the private Member ' s Bill of my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) , which would bring consistency in voter registration by enable the Welsh and Scottish Governments to allow online application for proxy and postal vote in local election . it would be good if the Minister give more detail on the Government ' s plan to strengthen the integrity of election and encourage wide participation . our constituent would expect no less from the United Kingdom than for national and regional leader to work together to change our country and build a well future . the establishment of the Council of the Nations and Regions be a welcome step to ensure that , while we be deliver on our commitment to push power out of Westminster , we do not repeat the mistake of " devolve and forget " . can the Minister reassure I that that new engagement framework will be regular and reliable and will not fade with time ? on this 185th anniversary of the Newport rise , let we remember the legacy that those involve in it leave we : a vote , a voice and , more than that , a vision — a vision for the future that challenge we to protect those freedom and use they powerfully to confront injustice , build unity and keep hope alive for all . let we ensure that the new Labour Government carry forward the 19th century Gwent Chartists ' legacy in deliver those important reform to make our democracy fit for the 21st century . as the Member for Newport East , I will be proud to support they . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Newport East ( Jessica Morden ) for secure this important debate and for her work to promote the democratic right of both her constituent and the wide public . as my hon . Friend say , on this day in 1839 , 185 year ago , protest erupt in Newport when up to 5 , 000 chartist march on the town to demand fair voting right . the Chartist movement emerge in 1836 among working - class man who feel disappoint by the Reform Act 1832 , which have not extend the vote beyond those who own property . it quickly spread around the country among man who feel disenfranchise by the democratic system of the time and want an equal vote to those who own property . here in London , man be inspire to join the movement . as my hon . Friend point out , the Newport rise end tragically , with up to 24 Chartists kill and over 50 more wounded . today , we remember the effort of the Chartists to advance and widen participation in our democracy , as do the people of Newport , who celebrate in the Newport rise festival every year . while the movement be strong between 1838 and 1848 , its legacy and ambition be last : further reform be pass in 1867 and 1884 , and by 1918 five of the Chartists ' six demand be achieve . we owe a huge debt of gratitude to the Chartists , as well as those who follow in their footstep , for the work they do to build our democratic system , which be admire around the world . as my hon . friend eloquently point out , the south Wales Chartists be renowned for their effort during the Newport rise , highlight the need for long - await change . do the Minister agree that one of the long - await change that be need be reform to the upper House here in Parliament , and that we be long overdue a fully elect Chamber ? the hon . Member will know that the last Labour Government be the Government who begin reform in the Lords , and we set out our plan in our manifesto . the Chartists fight tirelessly for all man over 21 to have the vote , irrespective of status , something that be not support by any legislation at the time . it be impossible to speak of these achievement without also recognise the effort of the suffragette movement . the suffragette have be an inspiration to woman only in the UK but across the world . we would not be here without their courage and sacrifice . they fight tirelessly for woman ' s right to vote and participate in our democracy . the right to democratic participation be a defining aspect of our great nation . just as the Chartists and the suffragette movement help to secure democracy and democratic freedom at home , so too have Britain play a vital role in promote those freedom abroad , particularly where they have be under threat . during the second world war , we stand by our ally in Europe who be threaten by authoritarianism , and today — as have be mention — we be support our ally in Ukraine who be fight to protect their own democracy and freedom . we have advocate for build democratic institution that be inclusive , effective and enduring . I know from my own family ' s experience of the birth of Bangladesh the important role that this Parliament have play in speak out for the democratic freedom of people in other country , such as in my country of birth in the 1971 war of independence . will the Minister give way ? I be afraid I have to conclude in just a few minute — apology . this government will continue to promote our cherish democratic principle and value . we will enfranchise those who be age 16 and 17 , as set out in our manifesto . the Chartist movement remind we of the importance of give a voice to those who do not have one . that be why we be expand the electoral franchise to enable young people to participate in our vibrant democracy . that be not all we want to do : our manifesto commitment include improve voter registration rate and protect the security of our democracy . we be committed to ensure that all who be entitle to vote be able to do so . that mean make sure that all legitimate , secure form of identification be accept at polling station . to that end , we have recently bring forward legislation to add the armed force veteran card to the list of accept form of identification , far support our veteran to successfully participate in our democracy . will the Minister give way ? I would like to make some more progress , because there be quite a lot to cover . in addition to those aim , our ongoing review of the 2024 general election will help to establish what go well and any further improvement that need to be make . overall , this Government ' s priority be centre on the commitment to strengthen the integrity of election and encourage wide participation in the democratic process , ensure that every eligible voter can participate in our democracy with confidence . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Newport East for secure this important debate and all member who have contribute . today we look back at the significance of the Chartists and the event in Newport on 4 November 1839 in shape our democracy . at a time when , as my hon . Friend point out , democracy face huge pressure around the world , we draw inspiration from the Chartists , and from the Newport rise , for their fight for our democratic freedom . I be grateful to the Minister for give way . I genuinely congratulate the Government on some of the progressive change they be make to extend the franchise . as Edmund Burke say in the 18th century , to conserve , we have to reform . indeed , it be probably fair to say that some conservative Members would have do well to be here this evening to hear about some of the progressive reform that this Government be make . I be grateful to the hon . member for make that point . he be absolutely right . it be quite striking to not see a single Conservative Member here , although I be encourage by the attendance of other hon . member and my hon . friend this late into the evening . I pay tribute to member of Parliament for the work they do to talk to young people in their constituency . Most Fridays , we visit school in our constituency and talk to they about this House and our democratic institution . that be really important . school council and young mayor play a powerful role in engage citizen in our democracy . the role of citizenship education , which the last Labour Government introduce , in teach young people about our institution be vital . we all have a collective responsibility to implant knowledge , respect and awareness of our democratic tradition — of our history , our heritage , and the sacrifice of the Chartists , the suffragette , and the many other who build our democracy and inspire other democracy around the world — so that we can protect our system , our democratic tradition , and our institution . that be the commitment of this Government . we will work hard to protect and strengthen our democracy , and to make sure that it be resilient and constantly evolve , as we have say in relation to the action we be take , to ensure that modernisation happen as the need arise — some of that relate to my early point about voter registration . as we move forward and look at take further action , I hope there will be ongoing engagement with member from across the House , include my hon . friend the Member for Newport East . I pay tribute to she for secure this debate because it be important that we share , not only with our own citizen but with other around the world , the great tradition and achievement of people in the past , particularly the Chartists , as well as the suffragette — the precious gift they have give we of the freedom that we enjoy now . we must do everything we can to build on what be achieve by the Chartists and those incredible movement . in that spirit , I look forward to work with colleague to make sure that we continue to strengthen our democracy . question put and agree to . House adjourn .