Oral Answers to Questions Home Department the Secretary of State be ask — Net Migration what step she be take to reduce net migration . what step she be take to reduce net migration . net migration be too high , and this Government be determined to bring it down . indeed , that be one of the reason why I vote and campaign to leave the European Union in 2016 . last month , I announce measure to reduce the number of student dependant come to the UK , which have soar by 35 % , and to stop people transfer from student visa to work visa . we expect net migration to return to sustainable level over time , and immigration policy be under constant review . the Labour - Plaid coalition in Cardiff have declare Wales a " sanctuary for all . " the world be welcome . however , its ukrainian super - sponsor scheme fall apart due to a lack of accommodation and planning , with family still cram into single room . what discussion have the Secretary of State have with the Welsh Labour Government about the collapse of their super - sponsor scheme ? do she know how many family be still inappropriately place ? we be very proud of this country ' s track record on provide sanctuary to people in need , and I be very proud of the support that the Government have give to Ukrainians flee Putin ' s barbaric war . but when it come to broad accommodation cost relate to asylum seeker , it be clear that we be spend far too much — £ 6 million a day , or £ 3 billion a year — on housing asylum seeker in hotel . my hon . friend raise a very important point . she speak frankly to labour ' s abject failure to offer any viable plan for support . labour be naive about the problem , and it be unrealistic about the solution . labour have no idea and no plan , and it be let Wales down . do the Government have any plan to amend the minimum salary requirement for the skilled worker visa scheme ? we always keep the salary threshold under review but , as I say , net migration be too high and we need to get overall number down . how do we do that ? well , employer need to recruit more people who be already here , rather than advertising abroad so much . we also need to get more people off welfare and back into economic activity , and our welfare reform will help with that objective . we can not ignore the pressure that record level of people come to the UK put on housing supply , public service and community relation . that be why we need to focus on lower net migration . of course , net emigration be the problem in some part of the UK . will the Home Secretary pay attention to the plight of our economy in the lake and dale , where almost two third of business be fail to meet demand because of a lack of workforce ? I have be speak to the Minister for Immigration about a youth mobility visa scheme , negotiate bilaterally with other country in Europe , to solve our economic need so that our hospitality and tourism industry can survive . how be the Home Secretary get on with those discussion ? migration be a very complex issue , and of course we have to balance the need of the labour market . that be why we be very pleased to support well - craft youth mobility scheme . there be one with India , and I have just come back from New Zealand , where we have expand our youth mobility scheme . they be great scheme that allow the exchange of young people , who can come here to serve and work in our economy . it be very clear that the issue of migration must be settle and sort out . at the same time , it be important to note that those who have come from eastern Europe , the middle east and Africa be contribute to the economy of my Strangford constituency . I think the Secretary of State be commit to ensure that continue , but what discussion have she have with the Northern Ireland Assembly to ensure that we continue to have the worker we need ? no single measure can control net migration , but as the Prime Minister have be clear , net migration be too high . that be why I recently announce a series of measure aim at reduce the number of student dependant , which have rise exponentially over the past few year , and ensure that student come here in a more proportionate and balanced way . I call the shadow Home Secretary . will the Home Secretary wish the deputy chairman of the Conservative party , the hon . member for Ashfield ( Lee Anderson ) , a speedy recovery from the terrible bug that I understand have , this morning , prevent he from launch an entirely different conservative immigration policy from the policy of the Conservative Home Secretary ? do she agree with he that social care visa should be cancel — yes or no ? the sorry fact of the matter be that Labour want open border and unlimited migration . there be a malaise descend upon the Labour party , and it do not even know what it think . labour ' s Sadiq Khan have say that he want more migration . labour ' s party chairman have confirm that number could rise under a Labour Government . when the shadow Home Secretary be ask whether she want net migration to rise or fall , she , in the characteristic style we have come to know and love , could not even answer the question . that be what we always get with Labour — order . may I just say that you have no responsibility for the Labour party and , in fairness , this be Home Office question ? the Home Secretary could not answer the question : do she support her own social care visa or not ? she spend all weekend briefing that she agree with her Back Benchers , but today she can not even answer the basic question . make up stuff about the Labour party will not help she when her party have be in power for 13 year and when work visa have double , exactly because the Government have fail to tackle skill shortage or issue in the labour market . this be total chaos . we have a Rwanda policy that be not remove anyone ; an impact assessment that say her policy will not work and will cost much more ; a 50 % drop in removal of foreign criminal — the inspector say this be because the Home Office can not even identify who can be remove ; a record number of people in hotel ; a record high asylum backlog ; and Back Benchers write the Home Secretary ' s immigration policy because they do not think she be up to the job . it have be a humiliating few week for the Home Secretary — Order . sorry , but you be not go to take advantage of I in that way — that be totally unfair . I can not pull one side up and allow the other to take advantage of it . I expect all the Back Benchers to be able to get their question in today . this be about everybody have the same opportunity to get involve , so please do not do that again . thank you , Mr Speaker . we all know that only the Conservative party and this Prime Minister have a serious plan to stop the boat and stop illegal migration , and that Labour stand for only one thing : open border and unlimited migration . Labour Members would rather spend their time campaign to block the deportation of foreign criminal than back our Illegal Migration Bill . they be on the side of the criminal gang , not on the side of the british people . Industrial Hemp license whether her Department have have recent discussion with the industrial hemp industry on licensing . the hon . Gentleman will recall that the two of we meet just a few week ago , on 17 May , together with industry representative , to discuss hemp licensing . I thank he for take the time and trouble to organise that meeting . as he know , there be a light - touch process for license industrial hemp . since 2013 , the number of hemp licence have increase from six to 134 . I recollect the conversation well . we have an opportunity within the UK to grow hemp on an industrial scale and so feed many grow industry that use hemp to produce environmentally friendly product . the growth of these industry have be hamper by overly complicated regulation and a poor application process . meanwhile , foreign company be race ahead in this arena . to protect UK farmer and encourage UK industry , will the Minister consider give the licensing process over to the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and make the process farmer friendly ? it be , of course , important to make sure that UK industry can compete globally , and a light - touch regulatory framework be important in that . we should be aware that some part of the plant contain high level of THC — tetrahydrocannabinol — and do need regulation , which be the Home Office ' s concern . I will be meet DEFRA colleague in the near future to make sure that our approach to regulation be as light - touch as possible , because , like he , I want to see our domestic industry flourish and I do not want any excessive regulation . Police Funding Formula what recent progress her Department have make on review the police funding formula . the Government have say they will be review the police funding formula , and I hope to have news for the House in the relatively near future about initiate the consultation process . the formula be quite out of date and it need overhaul , and we be work on that . the record number of 1 , 455 police officer in Bedfordshire and the recent £ 6 million special grant be both very welcome indeed , but do the Minister recognise that it be simply not fair or right to go on fund a force with a series of one - off special grant that really need to be part of core funding ? my hon . friend make a good point . I should take this opportunity to pay tribute to the Bedfordshire police and crime commissioner , Festus Akinbusoye , who have do a fantastic job for the people of Bedfordshire . he advocate for more funding via the special grant and be successful . he be a great representative for the people of Bedfordshire and I be pleased that he have deliver record police number in Bedfordshire , just as the Government have deliver record number of police across the whole of England and Wales . I call the shadow Minister . the chief constable of West Yorkshire police , John Robins QPM , recently tell the BBC that his force do not have the resource that it need to deliver the service that the public expect . cut through the spin , he say that the force be down 2 , 000 staff and £ 140 million since 2010 . he say his force could deal with major incident and crime , but only at a cost to neighbourhood policing . this come from a force that be rate outstanding in planning and the use of resource in its late inspection by his Majesty ' s inspectorate of constabulary and fire and rescue service . which bit of policing do the Minister think should not be do because force simply do not have the resource ? the shadow Minister will know that in the police funding settlement for this year , 2023 - 24 , there be around about £ 500 million extra — in fact , it be slightly over £ 500 million — for police force up and down the country . that have enable we to deliver a record number of officer ever . there be 149 , 572 officer — about 3 , 500 more than there be under the last Labour Government . in West Yorkshire , which the shadow Minister ask about , neighbourhood crime be down by 30 % since 2019 and overall crime — exclude fraud and computer misuse , which come into the figure only recently — be down by 52 % since 2010 . I be still wait for the shadow Home Secretary to apologise for be a member of a Government who preside over crime level that be double those we have today . Asylum Application Backlog what recent progress her Department have make on reduce the backlog of asylum application . what recent progress her Department have make on reduce the backlog of asylum application . we be make good progress , and the late Home Office statistic show that asylum decision be up , with a 35 % increase since last year in the number make . Productivity have increase , and we be on track to have 2 , 500 decision maker by September , which represent a quadrupling of the number of case worker . like many member from all party , I be constantly contact by refugee who be desperate to know what be happen to their asylum claim after year of wait , so I ask the Home Office how many refugee in Newcastle have be wait for one , two , three , four and five year . the answer come back that the Home Office do not know — it do not even record the datum . instead of indulge in unworkable , unethical , illegal and unaffordable flight of rwandan fantasy , why do the Home Secretary not focus on her day job and fix the asylum backlog ? as I just say , we be make good progress on reduce the asylum backlog . important though the reduce the backlog be , however , it can not be the totality of a plan . this be the point that the Labour party do not seem to understand : we have to stop the boat come in the first place . that be the only sustainable way to tackle the issue . even if we grant our way out of this problem , as the shadow Home Secretary seem to propose , the pressure on the state still remain ; they be simply transfer to local authority and the benefit system , and the british taxpayer continue to pick up the bill . the Minister have an interesting definition of be " on track " ; do the number of decision maker not fall between January and May this year , from 1 , 333 to 1 , 280 ? a constituent recently pass on to I a letter from a firm of local solicitor that say : " all possible avenue have be consider to avoid this situation but regrettably , the Home Office ' s long term failure to progress asylum claim , and current Government immigration policy , have make it financially unsustainable for " these solicitor " to continue legally aid work . " how do it help we as mps on both side of the House in our constituency office , and how do it help with the backlog that the Home Office say it want to reduce , to make sure that people do not have the legal representation they need to unblock the system and allow progress in asylum case ? I can assure the hon . Gentleman that the problem with our asylum system be not a lack of lawyer ; there be plenty of legal representative around . we have have strong overall progress on the backlog , and I be pleased to say that the early datum that I have receive suggest that last week see the good performance in four year . I know how seriously the Minister take deal with the legacy backlog , but , as the Home Secretary show at the recent Home Affairs Committee , in order to deal with that backlog in the timeframe that the Government have set themselves it would require at least a quadrupling of the number of case be deal with as from 1 June . even with the extra 500 staff appoint at Stoke , that will be challenging . will the Minister give I an assurance that , if we have not manage to clear the backlog before the end of the year , it will not be do by a blanket amnesty ? my hon . friend make an important point . the Home Secretary , the Prime Minister and I explicitly choose not to pursue the blanket amnesty approach that the previous Labour Government pursue . instead , we put in the hard yard to improve productivity by streamline process , reduce unnecessary bureaucracy , ensure that , where appropriate , interview be conduct in a timely fashion , and recruit more decision maker . since my right hon . friend the Home Secretary appear before the Committee , I be pleased to say that the datum come out of our caseworke team be very strong . we be see significant progress . as I just say , early indication suggest that last week be the good for over four year . I be a bit mystified . give that 95 % of these application be successful , be it not the case that , if we speed up the process and make it easy and easy , more and more people will come ? be not the only solution to detain people and to deport they — offshore they ? those who suggest anything else be live in cloud cuckoo land and every single county will face what we face in Lincolnshire with thousand of illegal migrant have to be house in unsuitable place . let we have an answer for once . the approach that the Home Secretary and I have take have be both to ensure that , where there be high grant rate nationality , case be pursue swiftly , and where there be low grant rate nationality , such as Albanians — individual from a safe european country — who can and should be return as quickly as possible , we do just that . at this point last year , 30 % of those arrive on small boat be come from Albania ; today , it be less than 2 % . that arrangement be clearly make good progress . none the less , my right hon . friend make an important point : those who suggest that we can simply grant our way out of this problem be , I be afraid , hopelessly naive . the idea that the individual come across on small boat will , in most case , make a significant net contribution to our economy be wrong . the cost to the taxpayer be very significant . the ongoing cost of education , access to welfare and community cohesion be very significant , which be why we need to stop the boat in the first place . I call the shadow Minister . the Government ' s destruction of their own asylum system can well be describe as an act of arson and their plan to fix it be utterly farcical . they have send more Home Secretaries than asylum seeker to Rwanda . they send the Prime Minister on a victory lap in Dover , apparently fail to notice that the weather improve over the summer and the boat number increase . and they be in such a flap about lose vote on their big backlog Bill that they resort to drag Lord Lebedev of Siberia into the Division Lobby . now the Court of Appeal ruling have reveal that Rwanda be able to process only 100 claim per year — around 0 . 3 % of those who arrive on small boat last year . can the Minister tell I what he be plan to do with the remain 99 . 7 % , and do he therefore agree that the prospect of the Rwanda plan actually deter any migrant from cross the channel be close to zero ? I use to say that the Labour party do not have a plan , but the truth be that it do have a plan , but it be a plan that would make thing significantly bad . it be a plan that would ensure more granting of case ; more safe and legal route , so even more individual would come here ; more hotel ; and more cost to the british taxpayer . what be so disgraceful be the level of hypocrisy . we only have to look at the record of Welsh Labour to see that . in Wales , the Welsh Minister for Social Justice declare on 15 occasion in the Senedd that labour - run Wales be " a nation of sanctuary " , but across the same period , labour - run Wales accommodate 176 few asylum seeker . in fact , the late publish data show that labour - run Wales have take just half the number of people that it should per capita . Illegal Migration Bill : devolve administration whether she have have recent discussion with the devolved administration on the Illegal Migration Bill . I have engage regularly with the devolved administration on the Illegal Migration Bill since its introduction in March , in addition to my periodic meeting with my ministerial counterpart on a variety of immigration issue . most recently , I meet the Scottish Minister for Equalities , Migration and Refugees in May . look ahead , the Bill be on the agenda for the inter - ministerial group for safety , security and migration , which my right hon . and learn Friend the Home Secretary will chair later this month . the Bill will place restriction on the power of Scottish Ministers , remove the entitlement for victim of human trafficking and exploitation to access Scottish Government - fund support service , and will undermine the Scottish Government ' s ability to deliver on their trafficking and exploitation strategy . we know what route the Government ' s damage ideology be drag they down , but why should Scotland ' s elect Parliament and the devolved Administrations be drag down the same route , when it be abundantly clear that we want no part of the hostile environment ideology ? if the Scottish Government care so deeply about this issue , they would accommodate more asylum seeker . the SNP Government be accommodate just 4 . 5 % of the total asylum population be accommodate in the UK , when Scotland make up 8 . 1 % of the UK population . I take the time to look at some of the statistic for those local authority in Scotland where the SNP be the large party : Clackmannanshire , zero asylum seeker ; Dundee , zero asylum seeker ; East Ayrshire , zero ; East Dunbartonshire , zero ; Midlothian , zero ; North Ayrshire — want to take a guess , Mr Speaker ? — zero ; North Lanarkshire , six — order . no , no , no — you be go to get my drift . we can not read out phone number . this be not the " Yellow Pages " advert . one or two statistic be fine , but when we get to five I really do worry . let we have the SNP spokesperson . the Minister clearly think that that be a very clever line , but he know well that Glasgow take more refugee per head of population than any other local authority in the United Kingdom . the line he be trot out be simply wrong and it be insulting to all those in Scotland who have open their home to Ukrainians , the community across the country who have welcome Syrians and the volunteer in the big city who work with asylum seeker every day , help they to overcome trauma . if he want Scotland to do more to welcome refugee , when be he go to devolve the power and the financial lever that would allow we to do so ? for good reason , immigration be a reserved matter , but the statistic I have just read out make the point as clear as can be . the SNP try its very good to undermine the Government ' s work to stop the boat , but it refuse to accommodate these people when they arrive , and the cost of its fake humanitarianism be bear by everyone but itself . that be not just hypocrisy ; it be deeply irresponsible , and the public have have enough . it be not the Scottish Government ' s policy towards immigration , refugee and asylum seeker that have be rule unlawful by the Court of Appeal . if the Minister want the system to work and he want the Scottish Government to do their part , he must take more action to clear the backlog , as we have hear ; there must be proper safe and legal right for people to arrive ; and they must be give the right to work when they get here , because then they can pay for their own accommodation and they will not cost the taxpayer money . just the other day , the Home Office suggest to the Scottish Government that a vessel that have be use to house ukrainian refugee in Leith could be use for other who be asylum seeker — the same vessel , the same port , the same provider , the same package . what do the SNP say ? no . Illegal Migration Bill : UN Refugee Convention what recent assessment she have make of the compatibility of the Illegal Migration Bill with the 1951 UN refugee convention . while I be pleased that the Court of Appeal find that the Government be not in breach of our obligation under the refugee convention , I fundamentally disagree with the judgment that Rwanda be not a safe place for refugee and we be seek permission to appeal . the Government take our international obligation very seriously and we be satisfied that the provision in the Illegal Migration Bill comply with the refugee convention . the fundamental principle remain , however , that those in need of protection should claim asylum at the early opportunity and in the first safe country that they reach . the Home Secretary and the Government website say that they be satisfied that the provision of the Illegal Migration Bill comply with the 1951 UN refugee convention . I be look for clarity from the Home Secretary . what exactly be it about persecute the most vulnerable group , create a hostile environment and strip people of their right to seek safety that comply so well with the UN refugee convention ? as I have make clear , we take our international obligation very seriously , and we be satisfied that the Bill comply with the refugee convention . with respect to the hon . Lady , I will not take lecture from the SNP on this matter . SNP Members be , as my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) say , the phoney humanitarian in this debate . they be happy to support asylum seeker as long as they be nowhere near Scotland . when they stop oppose the vessel in Leith , which will house more asylum seeker , then we can have a serious conversation . the UN Refugee Agency have its own asylum seeker relocation programme : it fly asylum seeker from Libya to Rwanda in a scheme part - fund by the European Union . how on earth can Rwanda be deem not to be a safe country if the UN Refugee Agency itself be use it as a safe haven ? as always , my hon . friend make a powerful point , and I could not agree with he more . the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees run an extensive scheme in Rwanda , and support the resettlement of many thousand of migrant . I meet some of they in my recent visit to Rwanda . they be happy and grateful for the generosity and welcome that Rwanda have offer they , which have allow they to restart their life . I be frankly very disappointed by the constant smear and assumption , which be base on outdated and ignorant view , denigrate our ally in Rwanda . I be nothing but grateful to our partner in Rwanda for the continued co - operation . Street Crime by Young People what step she be take to tackle street crime by young people . I be pleased to report that , accord to the crime survey , violence be down by 41 % and criminal damage be down by 68 % since 2010 . but we would like to do more . that be why we now have record number of police and why we be invest in the safe street fund , £ 200 million in the Youth Endowment Fund and £ 170 million in violence reduction unit . we have also launch our antisocial behaviour strategy , about which the Home Secretary will speak in a moment . now be a good time to put on the record an intervention make by Mr Speaker in his capacity as the Member of Parliament for Chorley . thank to his recent intervention with I and the chief constable , Chorley town centre be one of the area that will receive antisocial behaviour hotspot patrol , and I be sure that the people of Chorley be very grateful to Mr Speaker for the intervention that he make on their behalf . well do , Mr Speaker ! I thank the Minister for his reply . some young people who be arrest because they be guilty of antisocial behaviour , or so - call low - level crime , be release without charge because there be a reluctance to criminalise they . too often , those youngster go on to commit further multiple crime , and be arrest and release without charge each time . what step will my right hon . friend take to end this roundabout of unpunished crime and ensure that young people who repeatedly break the law be not release without charge but be treat as what they be — criminal ? we want to see tough action on thing such as antisocial behaviour and public drug use ; we should have zero tolerance for any of those thing . as part of the ASB strategy we be launch instant justice , whereby people who perpetrate act of antisocial behaviour will rapidly — ideally within 48 hour — be make to do clean - up and those kind of thing in their local area , to pay back visibly , publicly , rapidly and with enforcement . we be trialle that in 10 police force area , start this month , and it will be roll out to every police force in the country , with funding , by April next year . I completely agree with everything my hon . Friend say . the Minister may not be aware that I be chair of the cross - party Youth Violence Commission . we publish an interim report in 2018 and a final one in 2020 . our first recommendation be for the Government to adopt a public health approach to tackle violence through regional violence reduction unit and long - term strategy . what action be the Minister take to ensure that violence reduction unit have the long - term funding that they need to achieve the good possible outcome ? I agree with the approach that the hon . Lady set out , and we have already take action . she ask about long - term plan . she will be aware that the Youth Endowment Fund of £ 210 million be a 10 - year programme , and that violence reduction unit — call violence reduction partnership in some place — have so far receive £ 170 million , and receive fund each and every year , include an allocation this year . the kind of thing that we find work include diversionary activity for young people . in fact , when I ask the chief executive of the YEF what the most effective intervention be , he say that it be cognitive behavioural therapy , which get use as well . I repeat one statistic that I mention early : since 2010 , violence be down by 41 % and criminal damage by 68 % . a report today find that nearly half of woman who experience or witness a crime in the past year choose not to report it because they do not believe that the police would treat it seriously . his Majesty ' s inspector , in his late state of policing report , say that the police be experience one of their big crisis in live memory , there be widespread systematic failing and they be simply not get the basic right . have push our british model of police by consent to the very brink , do the Government take responsibility , do they agree with the inspector that substantial reform be essential , and will they back Labour ' s plan to restore neighbourhood policing , halve serious violence and raise confidence in every force — or be the Minister happy to keep twiddle his thumb while the criminal get away with it ? I must say , in the gentle term , that my constituency neighbour have a bit of cheek to talk about reduce crime , give that accord to the crime survey , crime level under the last Labour Government be around double what they be today . [ interruption . ] she shake her head , but that be from the Office for National Statistics , and it be the only statistically recognise long - term measure of crime . if she do not like the ONS figure , she can go and argue with it . she might not like they , but those be the figure . in relation to the hon . Lady ' s serious question about rasso — rape and serious sexual offence — particularly on woman , the proportion be report be much high than it be a few year ago , which be welcome . there be a lot more to do , which be why there be a rape review and a rape action plan . my right hon . and learn Friend the Home Secretary and the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , my hon . friend the Member for Derbyshire Dales ( Miss Dines ) , be work hard on that . operation Soteria Bluestone be fully roll out at the end of June , just a few day ago , and we have see a significant increase in the number of relevant charge . they be still too low , and they need to be high , which be why we have invest in more rasso specialist officer , and that work be continue . Antisocial Behaviour what step her Department be take to help tackle antisocial behaviour . whether her Department plan to increase police resource to help tackle antisocial behaviour . early in the year , I launch the antisocial behaviour action plan , which include increase funding for police and crime commissioner by over £ 100 million , deliver strong and swifter punishment , increase police visibility in response , and ban nitrous oxide . antisocial behaviour be not a low - level crime . it blight community , and that be why the Government be commit to tackle it effectively . today , to coincide with Anti - social Behaviour Awareness Week , the all - party parliamentary group on antisocial behaviour have publish a report with the charity Resolve ASB , which demonstrate , among other thing , that 1 . 7 million people a day experience antisocial behaviour . some 58 % believe that the Government be not do enough . will the Home Secretary meet member of the all - party parliamentary group and I to look at the recommendation in that report ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his work on the all - party parliamentary group , and I be sure that the Policing Minister and / or I will meet he to learn more about the vital work that he have lead . may I take the opportunity to applaud the officer of Cheshire police force in the hon . Gentleman ' s area ? I have have the pleasure of meet the excellent chief constable , Mark Roberts . I applaud the conservative police and crime commissioner , John Dwyer , who have roll out a scheme on antisocial behaviour that provide more CCTV and increase the first - responder response . there be a record number of police officer in Cheshire , and the force have receive over £ 3 million - worth of safe street funding . the result be a 26 % fall in neighbourhood crime and a 17 % fall in drug offence in Cheshire . that be common - sense policing , thank to the police officer and Government support . Hampshire and Isle of Wight Constabulary be one of the lowest - fund police force in the UK , and with a decade of cut to youth service , antisocial behaviour have be leave to thrive under this Government . we have see the consequence at South Parade pier , the Camber and many other place in Portsmouth . neighbourhood policing be vital in crack down on ASB , which ruin so many life . therefore , what explanation can the Home Secretary provide for halve the number of police community support officer over the past 13 year ? the hon . Gentleman and I represent constituency that be serve by the same police force , and I be really proud of the track record in Hampshire . I be really proud of how the new chief constable , Scott Chilton , have assume his role , with a real focus on back - to - basic policing ; I be really proud of how the conservative police and crime commissioner , Donna Jones , have lead initiative so that every community in Hampshire will have name , dedicated police officer and pcso serve they , bolster neighbourhood police and building confidence ; and I be really proud of the fact that Hampshire have see a 15 % fall in neighbourhood crime since 2019 — common - sense policing serve the community . do my right hon . and learn Friend agree that some of the principal victim of antisocial behaviour be young people ? the Government be absolutely right to bring forward new measure to tackle antisocial behaviour to make our street , park and public space safe for the vast majority of young people who do not engage in those negative behaviour . my right hon . friend be absolutely correct . there be such a need for great diversion and great support for young people , so that they do not spend their time loitering in shopping centre , cause a nuisance in car park or harass member of the community . that be why our antisocial behaviour action plan commit considerable funding — over £ 160 million of new funding — include for an increase police presence in ASB hotspot area and to support the roll - out of diversionary resource to support young people so that they do not fall into crime and antisocial behaviour . youth zone be exceptional , especially the Chorley Inspire one . yet again , in Ilkley and Marley in my constituency , Travellers have set up camp , cause damage and intimidate resident , which just last weekend result in Ilkley pool have to close temporarily . when they have go , they leave a complete mess , which all have to be clean up at taxpayer ' expense . will the Home Secretary meet I to discuss what additional support West Yorkshire police and our local council can get to address this ongoing issue ? my hon . friend raise a really important point about illegal encampment and Travellers who blight community by cause a nuisance and who , in some case , threaten community — it be unacceptable behaviour . that be why we legislate in the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 to toughen up the power and measure available to the police , so that they can take more robust step in relation to this issue , but I be very happy to speak to my hon . friend about what more can be do locally . Asylum Accommodation : hotel what recent progress her Department have make on reduce the use of hotel as contingency asylum accommodation . what recent progress her Department have make on reduce the use of hotel as contingency asylum accommodation . the Home Office seek to end the use of hotel and to move asylum seeker to less expensive , more suitable accommodation . to support that , we be bring into use large , disuse military site and vessel , which will provide adequate , safe , secure , non - detain accommodation for asylum seeker and also reduce the pull factor to the United Kingdom . I recently receive an email from the Home Office that say that the use of hotel to house asylum seeker be " inappropriate " , and that reliance on they must be reduce . in the same email , the Home Office inform I that it plan to increase the use of hotel accommodation for asylum seeker in my constituency of Erdington by 159 % — the single big increase in the whole of Birmingham . how on earth can the Minister expect the country to trust he when he can not even keep his policy consistent within the same email ? the policy that we have adopt be one of maximise the capacity of the hotel that we have for as long as we have they . that be save the taxpayer at least a quarter of a billion pound and reduce reliance on hotel elsewhere in the country . I do appreciate that there be pressure on the hon . Lady ' s local authority , and I also appreciate that some labour local authority , such as Westminster City Council , say that asylum seeker must be house in individual , ensuite bedroom . we do not agree with that : it be a gross waste of taxpayer ' money that would make the UK a soft touch . in my constituency , I have have the same experience as my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Erdington ( Mrs Hamilton ) , but the question I want to ask be about unaccompanied asylum - seek child . the Home Office still have not explain how it be go to find the child miss from asylum accommodation , so will it set out the plan to do that and find these vulnerable people ? we have be very clear that we and the police take extremely seriously any young person who go missing from a hotel or any other form of accommodation . local police force and Home Office personnel treat that exactly as they would any other child go miss and they conduct a full miss person inquiry . however , the only sustainable answer to young people live in hotel be to stop the boat in the first place . do nothing be not an option . do nothing will lead to more young people live in those hotel and be expose to human trafficker . while I do very much welcome the Minister ' s determination to move away from hotel and towards other accommodation , will he give particular attention to the Wiltshire hotel and golf club in my constituency ? the number there have go up : there be now 120 people there , and they be all cram into very small accommodation . it be not only bad from the point of view of the golf club member and neighbour long - term resident with they in housing next door , but it be an extremely bad place from the point of view of the asylum seeker . they have nowhere to go and nothing to do . they have no education facility and no religious facility . they be stick in the middle of the countryside with no transport , and it be quite the wrong place for they to be . will the Minister please give particular attention to the Wiltshire hotel ? I be familiar with the hotel in my hon . friend ' s constituency and the concern he have raise . I will take a look at that , but as I have say previously , the answer to this challenge be to stop the boat come in the first place . that be why we all need to support the Illegal Migration Bill . those who want more hotel would oppose it . the Labour party ' s policy will see more hotel , and the shadow Home Secretary will end up with more hotel to her name than Paris Hilton . I do not know how to follow that , Mr Speaker . all member would like to see a reduction in the number of hotel use for asylum accommodation — I be sure that be true — but will the Minister spend a moment to congratulate the community of Sharnbrook , and in particular Rev . Paolo Di Leo and Councillor Doug McMurdo , on provide a welcoming environment for people who be put in such accommodation ? I think there be sign across the country that community do come together in these difficult circumstance to achieve an outcome that be beneficial for everyone . I would be very happy to put on record my view of the good work be do by my hon . friend ' s constituent . he be right to say that there be voluntary and community group , charity and church right across the country that support asylum seeker while they be in this form of accommodation , and we and our provider facilitate that wherever possible . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . I be go to make a short topical statement . the information that Meta and other tech company give to UK law enforcement help to protect around 1 , 200 child and lead to over 100 arrest of suspect child abuser every month . however , Meta plan to roll out end - to - end encryption soon , without safeguard , and it will no long proactively detect and alert authority to child grooming and abuse material on Facebook , Messenger and Instagram Direct . this will be a huge boon to anyone who want to hurt a child . the Online Safety Bill will hold tech firm to account , but indifference to abuse be intolerable . I have write to Mark Zuckerberg — together with my right hon . friend the Minister for Security , the right hon . member for Tonbridge and Malling ( Tom Tugendhat ) , child ' s charity and campaign group — to outline our profound concern . last week , I be in New Zealand at the five Eyes security conference where there be widespread support for work together to ensure that social medium company put child safety first . follow recent knife crime incident in my constituency and in the Medway town , will my right hon . friend meet I and our Kent police and crime commissioner , Matthew Scott , to discuss funding and how the Home Office can far support Kent police with the increase challenge we be face in Kent due to our proximity to London ? I very much appreciate the particular challenge in Kent relate to knife crime . that be why I be glad that since 2019 , Kent have receive £ 5 . 5 million in core violence reduction unit grant funding , and £ 730 , 000 in additional support for targeted youth intervention . I have meet the police and crime commissioner , and Chief Constable Tim Smith . they be both excellent at lead their force , and there be now a record number of police officer in Kent . I be sure the Minister for Crime , Policing and Fire , my right hon . friend the Member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) , will meet my right hon . friend to discuss that issue . we have make a lot of progress , but we can do well . I call the shadow Home Secretary . the Home Secretary will be aware of the documentary last week on the relationship between Boris Johnson and other , and former KGB officer Alexander Lebedev , and about the meeting in an italian villa , the ignoring of security advice on Lords appointment , and the decision not to sanction Alexander Lebedev . give the importance of national security , will she tell the House whether she have any concern about those report ? will she set up an independent investigation into what happen , into who know what , and into how far the security risk spread ? at the Home Office , the Minister for Security and I take seriously the threat pose by hostile state actor . that be why the Minister for Security be chair the Defending Democracy Taskforce , bring together agency and Departments in a cross - whitehall approach to tackle the serious threat that we all face as parliamentarian and face those in public office . I gently remind the right hon . Lady that one of her own parliamentary colleague have a very dubious track record when it come to work with the Chinese Communist party . what step be my right hon . friend take to ensure that police funding reflect rurality and the huge uplift in population experience in remote coastal location during the summer tourist season ? as I say in response to an early question , the Government intend to consult in due course on a new police funding formula , and part of that consultation will involve look at the factor that should be take into account . those might include thing such as population and crime level , but thing such as rurality , sparsity and seasonality , particularly seasonal tourism , be likely to form part of the new formula . I encourage member across the House to engage closely with that consultation when it come forward , to ensure that those factor be properly account for . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . in recent week , the medium have carry story of patient who be receive medical cannabis on private prescription , and who be now have their prescription pay for by the NHS . on the surface that be a great leap forward , but parent of child with intractable epilepsy who have be ask for such thing for year be still be ignore . will the Home Office consider reopen the 2018 licensing scheme to enable those child who be already be privately prescribe medical cannabis to have access to it via their NHS gp ? many cannabis base compound be move wholesale to schedule 2 a few year ago , enable they to be prescribe . the question that the hon . Gentleman ask about NHS prescription be perfectly reasonable and fair , but prescription on the NHS be a matter for the Department of Health and Social Care and for the NHS , include the NHS in Scotland . I would be happy to pass on his inquiry to they . may I assure my right hon . friend the Home Secretary that the majority of my constituent in Sittingbourne and Sheppey understand that send illegal migrant to Rwanda for processing be key to stop small - boat crossing in the channel ? will she assure they that despite concert opposition from the Labour party , she will deliver her plan ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for that question . we be disappoint by the judgment of the Court of Appeal , but we be determined to follow through . he be right to say that we have to add deterrence to the system , as it be only by break the business model of the people smuggler that we will stop the boat . my constituent want community police . Kim McGuinness , the police and crime commissioner for Northumbria , have put in place a redeployment programme to get an extra 134 officer into neighbourhood , but that will not make up for the 1 , 100 officer and the £ 148 million that we have lose due to budget cut . and before the Minister mention " plan " , that will still leave we 400 officer short . why have the Tories fail so badly to get police officer on to the beat ? as I mention in early answer , across England and Wales we now have record police number of 149 , 572 . the previous peak be 146 , 030 in 2010 , so we have 3 , 500 more officer than we have ever have before across England and Wales . in Northumbria , the number have go up by 512 since 2015 . of course , many of the power sit with the pcc , include power over the precept . it be entirely open to police and crime commissioner to use those power . today , Operation Centurion have start across Lancashire , utilise £ 2 million from the Government to put more police officer on our street tackle antisocial behaviour . in my constituency , that mean almost 2 , 500 extra hour of police patrol in Padiham . it will have a major impact , but we can do more . can I ask the Home Secretary whether the safe street fund will have another round so that we can make physical change , as well as get more officer on the street ? I be delighted with the progress be make to tackle antisocial behaviour in Burnley and Padiham . as my hon . friend will know , we have allocate almost £ 1 million to roll out pilot of ASB hotspot response in 2023 - 24 . a new round of safe street will be announce soon . I take this opportunity to thank Lancashire police , which have launch an ASB problem - solve unit . it run Operation Propulsion , which involve more officer patrol location deal with motor nuisance and boy racer , and it have have a real good crackdown on residential burglary thank to Operation Defender . neighbourhood crime have fall by 26 % in Lancashire . tribute must be pay to Chief Constable Chris Rowley and the police and crime commissioner , Andrew Snowden . give the exchange early , I be oblige to ask the Home Secretary whether she understand the difference between use a cruise ship for the temporary accommodation of ukrainian refugee , with a share language and experience , and who have the right to work and be be actively relocate in the community , and use it essentially as a prison ship for the indefinite long - term detention of asylum seeker , who have no right to leave , no right to work , no right to benefit and no recourse to public fund . do the Department appreciate the difference ? I be disappoint by the hon . Gentleman ' s remark . he know perfectly well that the proposition be not a prison ship . this be a ship that will be use in exactly the same way as the SNP Government do in Scotland , and in exactly the same way as the Belgian and the dutch government be do in their respective area . if I may say , in Edinburgh today , there be 37 asylum seeker . that be disgraceful . if the SNP care about this issue , it would step up , support asylum seeker and back our Bill . People in Southend West want to see a tough , but just policy on illegal immigration that stop people unfairly jump the queue , that stop evil people smuggler and above all stop vulnerable people drown in the channel . will my right hon . friend therefore agree that we must continue to send a strong signal that it be this Government — not unelecte lawyer or criminal gang — who will decide who come to this country ? at the core of this question be : who decide who come to this country ? be it for the Government and Parliament , or be it for people smuggler and human trafficker ? those of we on the Government Benches know exactly which side of the debate we be on ; we want to stop the boat , and we want to secure our border . the family of my constituent who flee Sudan have be stick in Egypt for more than two month await a spousal visa . four of the group of five have UK passport . can the Minister tell we how long he would expect people to be wait in this kind of situation when they have suffer such distress and anxiety ? I would be happy to look into the case for the hon . Gentleman , but I can say to he that we be process application in third country within service standard . we have close the visa application centre in Khartoum for obvious reason to protect the security of our staff and contractor , but we have team in Egypt , Saudi Arabia and in other close country who be there to support applicant , such as his constituent . give this morning ' s u - turn by the Mayor of London on sell off Uxbridge police station , do the Minister believe that the Mayor should also act to save Barnet police station ? if he do not , the Mayor ' s decision on Uxbridge look like cynical political gameplaying and interference in a by - election . I and many other Londoners be concern when , I think in 2017 , Sadiq Khan announce plan to close 37 police station . thank to the resolute campaigning of local councillor Steve Tuckwell in Hillingdon , Sadiq Khan have execute a last - minute handbrake u - turn under pressure , which I be sure be entirely unconnected with the upcoming by - election . my right hon . friend be absolutely right that if Sadiq Khan be to have any credibility at all with Londoners — he currently have pretty much none — he should reverse not just that one police station closure plan but all his police station closure plan . use the maximum police precept on council tax , have to tap into half a million pound of reserve and yet again rely on grant funding show that the Bedfordshire police and crime commissioner have fail to secure the long - term funding that our force desperately need . now he be off pursue his personal ambition as the next Tory candidate for Mid Beds . the review of police funding be welcome , but when will the House see it ? will it be before the summer recess ? I can not set out a precise timeframe — it be be actively work on — but I point out that Festus , the police and crime commissioner for Bedfordshire , be do a fantastic job for the people of that county . it be thank to his active , energetic , persuasive and eloquent intervention that Bedfordshire have receive these special grant . its base budget have also go up by £ 6 . 1 million this year thank to his fantastic work . last week , Nigel Farage publicise the cancellation of his bank account under the politically expose person regulation , but he be only the late of a number of people to have have their life wreck by that regulation . recently , Lords in the other place try to correct the policy , but with only partial success , because , I understand , of pushback from the Home Office and the security service . will the Minister explain why that be and what he will do about it ? I be delighted to be ask a question . yesterday , the Treasury and the Home Office come together and agree various thing that be announce in the House of Lords : the PEPs agreement . such a closure on political ground , if that be indeed what have happen — after all , we have only the allegation of it at this point — should , therefore , be completely unacceptable . pep be there to prevent the corrupt use of banking facility by politician in corrupt regime . it be not there to silence individual who may hold view with which we may or may not agree . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . in the chief inspector of border and immigration ' s late report on the Home Office system to remove foreign national offender , he say " the Home Office do not have a firm grip on its caseworke operation " , and " this be no way to run a government department . " he also say " I find the Home Office ' s inability to provide reliable or consistent datum and management information of particular concern . " give that , will the Minister explain how the Department will cope with the increase in casework , detention and removal plan under the Illegal Immigration ( Offences ) bill ? we take that report , as we do all other , very seriously . the right hon . Lady be right to say that there be lesson to be learn . however , return be increase as a result of deal such as the one we have do with Albania , as a result of reform such as those we have make to the national referral mechanism and as a result of the 50 % increase in illegal working visit that we have secure this year alone . despite repeat assurance from the Dispatch Box and it be nearly eight month since I first raise the issue with the Minister , the Home Office continue to operate two wholly inappropriate accommodation centre in my constituency , put an unbearable strain on public service . will my right hon . friend expedite a clear timetable to close the centre permanently and restore the hotel to their intend purpose ? my hon . friend and I have discuss this on many occasion . she have doggedly campaign for the closure of these centre as well as support the step that we be take as a Government to stop the boat in the first place . I will be happy to have further conversation with she , but she have my assurance that we be work as fast as possible to clear all hotel , include those in her constituency . last week , the Government reject a number of recommendation from the inquest into the tragic mass shooting in Plymouth in 2021 , which have cause serious concern among some of the family of the victim . will the Minister explain why he reject the coroner ' s recommendation and whether all those on which he be consult will be implement by the end of this calendar year ? I thank the hon . gentleman for our meeting with the family a few week ago . as I say to he on the phone last week , whenever he and the family be ready to have further discussion with Home Office official , they will be ready . the timing of that will be guide by the hon . Gentleman . on the substance of the Government ' s reply , we have commit to do some thing straight away . for example , the National Police Chiefs ' Council have be fund to set up an accredited training programme for firearm officer — that be one of the recommendation . in due course that will become mandatory . the inspectorate will conduct a thematic inspection of all firearm license next year . as I say to the House a few month ago , I ask it specifically to reinspect Devon and Cornwall ' s firearm license . it be do that and it should report back by the end of July . the vast majority of the recommendation make by the coroner , the Independent Office for Police Conduct and the Scottish Affairs Committee in connection with the Isle of Skye shooting be be openly and neutrally consult on . the Government do not have a position ; they will consult openly and respond once we have reply to the consultation . there be two recommendation that the hon . Gentleman refer to that the Government do not feel be appropriate , for the reason set out in the document , but the vast majority be be openly consult on . we have take action on some of they already . I thank he again for his campaigning on this issue , which I know the family be grateful for . I recently visit Uxbridge police station to hear about the valuable work its officer do to serve my constituent as well as those in Uxbridge and South Ruislip . when the Mayor announce its closure in 2017 , Hillingdon Council offer to buy the site at market rate and provide a £ 500 , 000 revenue contribution and leaseback arrangement , so that those valuable service could continue to be available . the Mayor say that that be completely impossible . other than the relentless campaigning of Hillingdon Conservatives and Councillor Steve Tuckwell , could my right hon . friend suggest any reason why the Mayor decide to keep it — order . Mr Simmonds , I think you need an Adjournment debate , not a topical question . see if you can pick the bone out of that , Minister . I thank my hon . friend for his excellent question . the answer be no , I can not think of anything other than the campaigning by Councillor Steve Tuckwell and other , which force the Mayor into a last - minute , self - interested , screech u - turn . I would like the Mayor to do a u - turn on all the other police station he be threaten with closure . you be go to be here a while yet . be the Home Secretary concern by recent revelation about the investigation into the Stephen Lawrence murder and what happen in the Brink ' s - mat aftermath ? be she concerned about some of the out - of - work organisation that our police belong to ? the recent report on the Stephen Lawrence case be an operational matter for the police , which I can not get involve in , nor should I . that be a judgment for the police on operational and casework decision , within which we do not interfere . we have a good track record on the Met turn around performance . Mark Rowley ' s turnaround plan and leadership effort to restore confidence and rebuild trust with London be work . we need to back he to get the good result possible in London . there be a tweet go around regard a man who identify as a trans woman . the tweet read that the trans - identify man who " appear in an @ itvnew report about ' mother ' have post an image ' breastfeed ' a baby . do you think it ' s ok to mock woman like this ? " I think that be a valid question , but I be also extremely concerned for the welfare of the child . will the Home Secretary ' s Department look into that for I , please ? while we respect all the right of those in the trans community , it be clear that biological man can not breastfeed . it be remarkable that we be in a position where the Labour party leader can not define a woman . I think he say something like 99 . 9 % of woman do not have a penis . on that basis , we can not rule he out from run to be labour ' s first female Prime Minister . my constituent Sarah have be wait more than six month for a biometric resident ' s permit , during which time she can not work , access free healthcare or leave the country . will someone do something to get she the status she deserve , so that she can go on with her life ? I would be happy to look into the case for the hon . Gentleman . the number of foreign national offender eligible for deportation have now reach a record almost 12 , 000 . almost 4 , 000 of those leave prison more than five year ago and even those volunteering for deportation be still here . will the Minister get a grip on the deportation department within the Home Office and make sure those people be chuck out of our country ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we want those individual to leave the country as swiftly as possible . the published figure show that FNO return increase follow the pandemic — by 14 % in the late 12 - month period end December 2022 compare with the previous 12 - month period — but , quite clearly , there be more work to be do . Liverpool be a city of sanctuary . currently , we have 237 afghan family who have be languish in a hotel for two year . the council must rehouse the family by 11 August . can the Minister say what will happen if we be unable to find suitable accommodation ? will they be make homeless and throw out on the street ? the Minister for Veterans ’ Affairs , my right hon . friend the Member for Plymouth , Moor View ( Johnny Mercer ) and I launch a programme that provide significant support to council like Liverpool to help individual find alternative accommodation . that might be in the private rental sector or it might be in social housing , but I think we can all agree on the principle that it be not right for individual or family to live in hotel accommodation for over two year . we need to help those people out of the hotel this summer . the Immigration Minister ' s early claim will come as news to the Labour and conservative coalition which run North Lanarkshire Council and a surprise to a director of Mears who confirm to I that North Lanarkshire Council house not just asylum seeker but refugee . the Immigration Minister have now give factually wrong information to this House three time . when will he apologise to the House , and will he come back to it to give proper information ? I do not think I have give factually wrong information . they may not be the fact the hon . Gentleman want to hear , but they be the fact . I do not mention North Lanarkshire , but there be six asylum seeker there . I think the hon . Gentleman would agree that there be more to be do . Road Fuel Prices ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer if he will make a statement on road fuel price . from rural hamlet to coastal community , it be a properly function market that ensure fair price for motorist , but for that market to function customer need transparent datum to find the good price . on that basis , when we see fuel price rise last summer we ask the Competition and Markets Authority to investigate whether the market be work for customer as it should . today , the CMA publish its final market study report and I be shock by its finding : rise fuel retail margin , and clear evidence of a rocket upwards and a feather downwards in the pricing pattern for diesel . it be completely unacceptable that consumer have be pay more . the financial impact of the 6p per litre increase , just in the fuel margin , from 2019 to 2022 , cost customer of the four supermarket fuel retailer £ 900 million last year alone . Asda ' s fuel margin target be three time high for this year than in 2019 and Morrisons double over the same period . it be wrong that in a cost of live crisis driver do not get a fair deal on fuel and end up be overcharge . motorist should not be use as cash cow by the fuel industry . the Government will not stand for it and I know this House will not stand for it . therefore , we accept the CMA ' s recommendation in full . we will create a statutory open datum scheme for retail fuel price and an ongoing road fuel price monitor function for the UK market . we will consult on the design of the open data scheme and monitoring function as soon as possible this autumn , but that be not enough . I have ask the CMA to have a voluntary scheme up and run by next month and I fully expect fuel retailer to share accurate , up - to - date road fuel price . the CMA will also continue to monitor fuel price . I demand that fuel retail boss stop rip off consumer , by make price available so that the market can operate as it should . transparency be vital for competition and to keep price down . I be extremely grateful to the Minister for Energy Security and Net Zero and be delighted to see he , but I be disappointed not to see the Chancellor of the Exchequer . I would have think that this be something that he care about . the problem be that the Government have stand for this over the past year . this morning , right under the Government ' s nose , greedy petrol retailer impose an additional cost of more than £ 900 million on people fill up their car . retailer swiftly pass on price increase in the wholesale market to driver , and the price rocket . yet when the wholesale price drop , price be lower only very slowly . I think we could all see that for ourselves . the RAC call this " nothing short of astounding in a cost - of - living crisis " , which confirm that " supermarket haven ' t be treat driver fairly at the pump " . this affect not just the cost of drive . high road fuel price have a knock - on effect on inflation across the economy , push up price in every sector of our country . the CMA make it clear that rural area still face the high price . where supermarket pump be few and far between , such as in Cumbria and Somerset , fuel retailer be likely to have cost that be high still . the CMA find that fuel price in rural place , such as my own in Westmorland and Lonsdale and in Somerton and Frome , be on average 1 . 2p per litre high than those in urban area . of course , in rural community with poor public transport link , people have no choice but to drive and the distance to travel be so much great , affect , in particular , people who work in the care sector . once again , rural community feel take for grant by this Government . one solution should be to expand the 5p per litre fuel duty relief scheme to those many isolated part of Cumbria that be not currently cover by it , so that family in Cumbria be not leave at the mercy of the most expensive fuel price . why do the Government fail to stop greedy retailer hit family with an almost £ 1 billion excess fuel bill in the first place ? will the Chancellor and the Prime Minister summon those company boss to Downing Street and press they to return those unfair profit by lower their price ? will the Government expand the rural fuel duty relief scheme to more area , to support community such as mine that be struggle with the high petrol price ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . he and the RAC be right to highlight the particular issue in rural community such as those that he and , indeed , I represent , and the particular pressure on consumer there . he will understand that rural fuel duty relief be a matter for the Chancellor and that what we need be a properly function market . that be why we be implement the finding of the CMA in full and put in place an interim regime , start next month . I call the Chair of the Transport Committee . towards the end of last year , the local radio station in Milton Keynes , MKFM , publish research show that , although there be considerable competition in Milton Keynes , petrol and diesel price be substantially high across the board than those in equivalent urban area . I very much welcome the proposal for a real - time fuel price comparator , but will my right hon . friend assure I that the Government will keep an eye on price differential between different urban area and intervene if necessary ? as ever , my hon . friend champion his constituency in this House . I completely agree . that be why the monitoring function be so important in tandem with transparency . we have to make sure that people can see the price . we know that consumer be prepared to travel but , if they do not know that there be a cheap price available 2 or 3 mile down the road , they will not access it . that be something that we aim to put right . I call the shadow Minister . People across Britain be face the high mortgage cost in Europe , the high inflation among advanced economy , and the high tax burden in 70 year . they be pay the price for 13 year of conservative failure . in that context , it be more important than ever for the Competition and Markets Authority to do all it can to help to bring down price . effective competition in the interest of consumer must be at the heart of our economy . that be why we firmly support the CMA ' s proposal to help to bring down the cost of fuel . ' fill up the tank at supermarket be an essential part of everyday life for family and small business across the country , so the fact that the average annual supermarket margin on fuel increase by 6p per litre between 2019 and 2022 be deeply worrying . I be pleased to see that the Secretary of State have accept the recommendation from the CMA to stop retailer artificially inflate petrol price during a cost of living crisis ; as he say , transparency be very important . however , give that the then Business Secretary write to fuel retailer and the cma more than a year ago to highlight apparent unfairness in fuel price , why have it take so long for the Government to take action on this issue ? motorist do not need a report to tell they that they be be fleece by fuel retailer ; they see it every time they fill up at the pump . why do the Government need to wait for the CMA to tell they what everyone else know before they take action ? in Northern Ireland , the Consumer Council publish a fuel price checker in September 2020 , which have help to keep fuel cost below those in England . why have the Government take almost three year to agree to do the same in England ? once again it be too little , too late from a Government , who have again sit on their hand . I note what the Minister say about an interim voluntary scheme and about consult as soon as possible , but can he give a clear indication of when the Government will introduce the change in the law that be need to make this permanent ? the hon . Lady be right to highlight the cost of live crisis and the level of taxis . that , of course , be why her party get into power would be such a disaster for ordinary consumer and motorist throughout the country . we have come through the pandemic and make sure we have keep the country afloat ; for instance , the Government support pay nearly half of everyone ' s energy bill through the last winter . a Labour Government would be a threat to market such as this , which we need to function properly , not in the way they would under Labour . as for why this have take so long , the hon . Lady ought to know , have see the disaster of her £ 28 billion energy borrowing package , which dematerialise : it be a great announcement , but it do not survive contact with reality . rise — Order . I think we need to help the Minister . the subject of the urgent question be road fuel price and I think we should stick to that . I call the Chair of the Treasury Committee . when the Chancellor announce that he be cut fuel duty by 5p a litre , which cost the Exchequer billion of pound , little do he expect that , as outline so persuasively today by the CMA , it would feed through immediately into the profit of fuel retailer — although cynical british motorist may not be surprised , because they observe it themselves on a day - to - day basis . I welcome the step that the Minister have announce , and urge he to act with great speed in implement they , but be he as surprised as I be that he have be ask this urgent question by the Liberal Democrats , who vote at their conference to hike fuel duty sharply ? I would like to say I be shocked or surprised , but I be not because — as everyone in the House know , except the tiny number who sit on the Liberal Democrat Bench — hypocrisy be their main method of behaviour . the initial Government cut in fuel duty of 5p per litre represent saving for consumer worth about £ 2 . 4 billion . we on the conservative Benches be on the side of the motorist . we be go to make sure that the market work and motorist be properly serve by it . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . the Minister say he will not stand for motorist ' be rip off , but that be exactly what minister have do . the Government have be complacent the whole time , follow the 5p fuel duty cut . why have it take the cma so long to establish that motorist be be gouge by 6p per litre compare with 2019 ? it report that diesel price be an astonishing 13p per litre higher this year alone than they should have be . that be symptomatic of the " cost of greed " crisis . Asda receive a fine for not comply with the CMA investigation . that show an astonishing level of arrogance on the part of supermarket that be rip off their own customer . it be estimate that we be pay nearly £ l billion a year in additional fuel cost due to the lack of competition . how do impose an initial fine of £ 30 , 000 on Asda work as a deterrent when it be make so much money ? I be all for an open datum fuel finder scheme , but really , be that it ? I already use an app to shop around for cheap fuel price , so this open datum will not necessarily bring competition in all area of the UK , and reliance on an app obviously will not help those who be digitally exclude . what be the Government ' s actual plan to ensure competition and reduce fuel price , especially at motorway service station , which be between 20p to 30p per litre more expensive ? when will we see these fuel price come down ? that be the close I have ever see the hon . Gentleman come to welcome a Government response , so I shall take that with I . I do not mean to try your patience any more than I already do , Mr Speaker , but , as I say to the hon . member for Bristol East ( Kerry McCarthy ) , whether it be major energy package or shipbuilding , we find that do the work first lead to well long - term outcome . give corporation tax , carbon taxis , the windfall tax , fuel duty and vat , be not the bulk of the price at the pump , and of other fuel , now tax - base ? will my right hon . Friend remind we of how much be tax and urge the Chancellor to reduce some of those taxis to cut the cost of living ? I thank my right hon . friend for champion the consumer , as he always do . as he will be well aware , tax be a matter for the Chancellor , but the whole House will have hear his passionate call to make sure that taxis be hold down to the low amount they possibly can be . that be one more reason why we can not have the Labour party take control of the country . in March , the RAC reveal that retailer be make a three time big margin on diesel than they be at the beginning of last year , and motorist be see absolutely no benefit from the Chancellor ' s fuel duty cut . give the Government ' s dither and delay on take any sort of action , how do the Minister feel when the Government ' s flagship policy to help motorist be have little to no impact ? we be furious that these price cut have not be pass on to consumer . that be why we ask the cma to investigate and to get far into the detail , and it be why we will implement its finding in full . as my right hon . friend be aware , I have be campaign on the issue of fuel price in west Berkshire for about a year and a half . one thing that have be particularly disappointing be the fact that fuel price in every single neighbouring constituency be 5 % to 8 % low . I write to the CMA and I be pretty disappointed to read its response today , which tell we a lot . I welcome the introduction of a real - time fuel price comparator , but such a tool already exist , albeit in a slightly clunky form . I draw the Minister ' s attention to the fact that it be not enough just to tell people what the price be at different pump in their local area . it must be transparent to consumer whether they be in a general area that have high or low price , so that their MP can make representation on what the supermarket may be do in that area and the CMA can intervene properly . my hon . friend have be assiduous and , as she have show with her question , focus and detail in try to rectify a problem that the CMA have fully display today . it be an unusual way round , but I would be happy to meet she to discuss the matter far to make sure we put in place all the right element , so that this transparency genuinely get through to the consumer . there be no doubt that fuel cost be drive up inflation , especially in rural area . I think the fuel price checker have have a dampening effect in Northern Ireland because the supermarket be always aware that that they be be look on . however , do the Minister accept that his Government also have a responsibility ? net zero policy , with all their associate taxis — whether it be the emission trading scheme , green levy or fuel duty — drive up price , too . the Government have a role to play in reduce inflation as well as in transparency on supermarket price . the right hon . Gentleman be draw the wrong conclusion from the sky - high price of the past year or two . it be sky - high international fossil fuel price that cause the enormous squeeze . the fast we can move to clean and cheap source of energy , the soon we can ensure that our constituent save money and contribute to deal with what be an ever more serious threat . have bring a ten - minute rule motion on this subject some eight year ago , I be delighted that patience have finally pay off . one issue I be raise at that time be the inequality between the price in town and those on motorway , which the Scottish National party spokesman have mention . be my right hon . friend confident that the measure be bring in today will reduce those 15p or 20p premium on road fuel price at motorway service station compare with normal area ? as so often , my hon . friend have be ahead of I . the issue he raise be part of the picture ; like he , I have observe that the captive market along motorway be subject to high price than elsewhere . I hope that can be part of our consideration to make sure we have a system that work at its good for everybody . may I respectfully point out to the Minister that this be not a town versus country or urban versus rural issue ? the RAC have identify that some retailer be grossly profiteer , take a three time big margin than they be at the beginning of last year , particularly on diesel sale . for the avoidance of doubt , will he confirm that the Government scheme he have outline today will apply to all fuel retailer , not just those at supermarket ? I will write to the hon . gentleman with the precise detail of everybody who will be include . he be right to highlight that this be not just an issue in urban area . however , in those area there tend to be more competition and easy transparency than there can be in rural and coastal area . a couple of week ago , I draw the House ' s attention to the fact that the same supermarket tanker would unload fuel at 10p a litre cheap in one place than it would if it come 10 to 15 mile up the road to my constituency . if today ' s report do not fix that , it will not have be good enough and the Government will have more work to do . I hope that my right hon . friend will give I some reassurance on that point . we have to make sure the market work . transparency be our big single weapon , and we need to be do this in a way that reach people , be they digitally enable or not ; we be wrestle with those detail . let we look at the alternative to a market - base system — other country have try it , as it be a populist measure . it do not work , it lead to a shortage of supply and it end up create the very dominance that we seek to ensure be not exploit in system such as we have see in this CMA report . the hon . member for South West Bedfordshire ( Andrew Selous ) ask a good and apposite question . in February , I write to all the major supermarket that have outlet in Chesterfield ask they why they be retail petrol for 10p more a litre there than they be sell it for just 10 mile up the road in Sheffield . they be very transparent and honest about this , say , " it ' s a market where we think we can make more money out of Chesterfield resident than we do out of Sheffield resident . that ' s why we charge you more . " that be despite the fact that there be no additional cost to get the fuel there . although I welcome the great transparency , make it easy for consumer , what they will see in Chesterfield be that they be pay more than they would up the road in Sheffield . be there anything in what the Minister be announce today that will empower people in Chesterfield to bring their price down ? transparency . the good people of Bridport and Dorchester in West Dorset have have to pay up to 20p a litre more than those in town not far away . the Liberal Democrats have be silent about that throughout the entire duration , so it be somewhat hypocritical of they to bring this matter to the House today , particularly give that they vote to increase the price per litre . although I welcome what the CMA have have to say in its report today , it do not really deal with the issue we be see of rigorous yield management by supermarket with their petrol price . that be not a matter of competition ; that be where they believe they can get more money out of a particular group people or community . I would be very pleased if the Minister would meet I to look at how we can take this forward and grasp that issue . I would be delighted to do so . now that we know that competition on fuel price have weaken in recent year and that that have lead to inflate price , particularly in my constituency where , despite a campaign for fair price lead by Stuart McMillan MSP , we have be pay over the odd for year , may I seek a guarantee that supermarket food price be not follow the same pattern ? follow this report , the CMA have decide to look into the supermarket and will report back as soon as next month . I thank the CMA for its report and the Government for accept the recommendation , although I think we be put too much faith in price transparency to solve the market problem . I be interested to see in the trend profit margin for supermarket retailer and non - supermarket retailer that supermarket be consistently increase their margin while non - supermarket retailer be not . will the Minister follow up with retailer , in the light of this report , to make sure that we check that the margin come down next year and in the following year ? I thank my hon . friend for his typically penetrate question . as I say , one of the recommendation be to maintain a monitoring function , which will help to give we the market intelligence so that if further intervention be require , we will have the datum on which to base it . patchy public transport contribute to high cost for rural household , as many people have no choice but to use their car for essential journey . despite this , the rural fuel duty relief scheme do not apply to a single area in Wales . will the Minister commit to press the Treasury to reconsider the scheme to take into account access to local public transport network , as well as provide a guarantee of inclusion for Welsh area ? I thank the right hon . Lady for her question and will ensure that his Majesty ' s Treasury be aware of it . the good people of Scunthorpe spot this issue some time ago , so I thank my right hon . friend for his work on it and the measure he be recommend . have the similar open - data scheme that have be trialle in Germany result in a boost in competitiveness ? if so , when do my right hon . friend think we will start to see the result at the pump here ? I hope from as soon as next month , under a voluntary scheme . my hon . friend give I the perfect opportunity to repeat how determined I be to see the company provide the datum so that we have something far less clunky , as it have be call , and far more comprehensive than what we have today , and so that that can lead to the benefit that have be find elsewhere . I be not certain that the seriousness of the situation that face rural constituency be be take appropriately into account . my Angus constituent live in town and landward area that be mile away from supermarket fuel . they pay the high price for fuel , they have no public transport to speak of so have to use their car and vehicle , they pay the high delivery price and they be often on the low wage . if the Minister think that great transparency over fuel price be go to help , he be stretch the point . my constituent in Angus know how expensive their fuel be and they know how far they have to travel to get cheap fuel . this announcement will not fix the situation . we need the Treasury to get its act together and intervene in what be essentially critical national infrastructure , which be what road fuel be . I will take that as a further representation to his Majesty ' s Treasury . motorist in and around Kettering have long suspect that petrol and diesel forecourt retailer have be inflate price well above where they should be . price go up far too quickly and come down far too slowly . give the fact that the petrol and diesel forecourt retailer effectively ignore the letter from the Business Secretary in May 2022 , will the Minister assure my constituent that the Competition and Markets Authority will continue to monitor the market closely to ensure that do not happen again ? my hon . friend be quite right . urge they to behave properly be not enough , which be why we will not only put in place a mandatory system to ensure that the data be there but ensure ongoing monitoring so that , as I say to our hon . friend the Member for North East Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) , we have the datum on which to base further intervention should that be require . this be a very welcome announcement , especially in respect of the information on fuel - price competition that will allow driver to look for fuel at petrol station that be close and have well price , thereby enable they to save money . on any potential fuel fund offer , there be an old generation — I be probably one of they — who perhaps do not use app and therefore do not understand how they work ; what step will the Minister take to ensure that they have access to information on fuel funding that be accessible for they and easily understand so that they , too , can take advantage of what be on offer ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . I would not want to finish without mention that , as of Monday 26 June , unleaded petrol be 143 . 43p per litre , and that have reduce , on average , by 47 . 5p from June last year , and diesel be 145 . 6p per litre , and that have reduce by 53 . 3p per litre on the previous year . I will write to the hon . gentleman to make sure that I can properly inform he in answer to his question . this report clearly show that resident in Burnley and Padiham and our village have be overcharge for their fuel for too long . do my right hon . friend think that the Competition and Markets Authority now need to relook at the ownership change at Asda ? as the Minister for Energy Security and Net Zero , that perhaps stretch slightly beyond my brief , but , as those on Treasury Bench will have hear my hon . friend ' s question , I be sure that he will be able follow up with other who have direct responsibility . NHS long - term Workforce Plan I wish to thank the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care for come to the Chamber to make his statement . it be a pity that the Prime Minister do not do so on Friday when the world hear what he have to say before we do . the Prime Minister be a Member of Parliament . he be answerable to the Members of Parliament from all political party . I have to say that his behaviour be not acceptable . he may be the Prime Minister , but the Members of Parliament should hear first . I be very pleased that the Secretary of State be do it the right way . the Government note the comment that you have make from the Chair , Mr Speaker . I would love they to take what I have say on board . that be also note , Mr Speaker . may I , on behalf of the Government , note the passing of the former head of the civil service , Lord Kerslake ? he have a distinguished career in public service , include as chief executive of Sheffield Council and chair of King ' s College Hospital NHS Foundation Trust , as well as be head of the civil service . we send our condolence to his family and friend both in Whitehall and across the civil service . with permission , Mr Speaker , I wish to make a statement on our long - term workforce plan for the NHS . this week mark the 75th birthday of the NHS . we should celebrate its achievement , its found principle and its people . from doctor and dentist to pharmacist and physio , NHS staff devote their life to care for other . I be sure the whole House would agree that the NHS hold a special place in our country due to the care offer by the people who work for it . it be say that , in 1948 , the NHS have few than 150 , 000 staff and a budget of around £ 11 billion . today , the NHS employ close to 1 . 4 million people with a budget of more than £ 160 billion . the transformation of the care offer by the NHS through advance in medicine be reflect in the fact that people now live 13 year long than on average in 1948 . today , alongside the increase in the number of staff , the range of treatment and the improved patient outcome , demand on the NHS have also increase . People live long , they live with more complex medical condition , and we be also deal with the challenge leave behind by a once - in - a - generation pandemic . one in four adult live with two or more health condition . although our population be forecast to grow by around 4 % over the next 15 year , the number of those over 85 be forecast to grow by more than 50 % . in address the challenge both of today and of the long term , it be right that we have a recovery plan focus on the immediate step as we rebuild from the pandemic , and long - term plan to ensure that the NHS be sustainable for the future . this will ensure that the NHS be there for future generation in the way that it have be for we and our family over the past 75 year . we have already set out detailed recovery plan to reduce long wait for operation , improve access to urgent and emergency care and make it easy to see GPs and specialist in primary care . on elective , we have virtually eliminate the two - year wait , which we do this summer , and clear more than 90 % of 80 - week wait from their peak at the end of March — in marked contrast to the much long wait we see in Wales , where the NHS be run by Labour . on urgent and emergency care , we be invest £ 1 billion in 5 , 000 additional permanent bed , alongside expand virtual ward to improve discharge from hospital and investing in community service to prevent admission , especially for the frail and elderly . on primary care , we be invest more than £ 600 million , include in improve technology to address the 8 am rush . we have already exceed our manifesto target by 3 , 000 , with 29 , 000 additional role in primary care to enable patient to access specialist more quickly , and we be reduce burden on GP surgery through the development of the NHS app and improve the range of service offer through Pharmacy First , enable pharmacist to prescribe drug treatment for seven minor illness . alongside the recovery plan , we be take action to improve prevention through early diagnosis of condition , whether through the 108 community diagnostic centre that be already open , or the 43 new and expand surgical hub plan for this year . our national roll - out of our lung cancer screening programme have help to transform patient outcome , turn on its head the previous position where 80 % of lung cancer in our most deprived community be detect late , with 76 % now be detect early . alongside the immediate measure we be take to deal with demand in the NHS , as we celebrate the 75th anniversary we be also invest in the NHS to make sure it be sustainable for the future . last month , I announce to the House the large - ever investment in the NHS estate , with more than £ 20 billion commit to our new hospital programme . today I can confirm to the House that , for the first time in the NHS ' s history , the Government have commit to publish a long - term workforce plan , set out the large - ever workforce training expansion in the NHS ' s history , back by £ 2 . 4 billion of new funding . the plan respond to request from NHS leader and have be develop by NHS England . I would like to take this opportunity to thank Amanda Pritchard , the chief executive of NHS England and her team , Gavin Larner and colleague within the Department of Health and Social Care , and the more than 60 nhs organisation that have engage closely in the plan ' s development , include many of our Royal Colleges . the plan set out three priority : to train more staff , to retain and develop the staff already work for the NHS and to reform how training be deliver , take on board the good of international practice . let I deal with each in turn . we will double the number of medical school place , increase the availability of GPs be train by 50 % , train 24 , 000 more nurse and midwife and increase the number of dentist by 40 % . when it come to improve retention , we recognise the importance of flexible work opportunity , especially for those approach retirement . the plan will build on proposal in the NHS people plan and build on step already take by the Chancellor at the spring Budget on pension tax reform . in respect of reform , the plan set out policy to expand the number of associate role , which provide great career progression for exist staff and in turn reduce the workload of senior clinician , allow they to focus on the work that only they can do . both measure will improve productivity by enable more staff to operate at the top of their licence . a constant theme across the long - term workforce plan be our focus on apprenticeship and vocational training , include a commitment to increase the number of staff come through apprenticeship from 7 % today to 22 % by 2031 - 32 . that reflect the strong commitment of the Secretary of State for Education and myself to facilitate great career progression through apprenticeship . it will also help to recruit and retain staff in part of the country that often find it hard to recruit in the week in which we celebrate the 75th anniversary of the NHS , today ' s announcement confirm the Government ' s commitment to the first ever comprehensive NHS long - term workforce plan . the plan set out detailed proposal to train more staff , offer great flexibility and opportunity to exist staff , and embrace innovation by reform how education and training be deliver across the NHS . the plan will be iterative ; we will return to it every couple of year to enable progress to reflect advance in technology such as artificial intelligence so that the number train can be well align with patient service . it also reflect a grow need for more general skill in the NHS , as patient with more than one condition require a more holistic approach . the NHS long - term plan , back by £ 2 . 4 billion of new funding , come in addition to our record investment in the NHS estate . it ensure that we put in place the funding require for a sustainable future for the NHS , alongside the step that we be take in the immediate term to reduce waiting list and ensure that the NHS be there for patient . as the chief executive of NHS England have say herself , the long - term workforce plan be a truly historic moment for the NHS . as such , I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Health Secretary for advance sight of his statement . I say " statement " , but what I really mean be " admission " — an admission that , after 13 long year , the Conservatives have run out of road , run out of idea , and turn to Labour to clear up the mess that they have make . make no mistake : at its heart , this be Labour ' s workforce plan . it be a plan that we have call for since last September ; a plan that we have beg the Government to adopt again and again . they say that imitation be sincere form of flattery , and I , for one , be relieve that the Government have finally see sense , but the question that the Health Secretary and Conservative Members need to answer today be : what on earth take they so long ? this week , the NHS celebrate its 75th anniversary as it face the big crisis in its history — a crisis that have be build for year under this government : a staff shortage of 154 , 000 , 7 . 4 million patient stick wait for treatment , people across the country find it virtually impossible to see a gp , and family desperately worried that if they need an emergency ambulance , it just will not arrive on time . minister constantly blame covid for those problem , but the truth be that waiting list number be rise and staff shortage increase long before the pandemic strike . patient now want to know when they will finally see a difference . can the Health Secretary confirm that , under his proposal , the NHS will not have the staff that it need for at least eight year ? do he now regret the cut in medical school place that his government bring in in 2013 ? do he regret the decision take last summer to cut the number of medical school place by 3 , 000 just when the NHS need they most ? the Health Secretary claim that this be the first long - term NHS workforce plan , but let I set the record straight . in 2000 , the last Labour Government produce a 10 - year plan of investment and reform — a plan that deliver not only 44 , 000 more doctor and 75 , 000 more nurse , but the low - ever wait time and the high - ever patient satisfaction in the history of the NHS . that be a golden inheritance that Conservative Members can only dream of and that they have squander through a decade of inaction and incompetence . let I turn briefly to what be miss from the proposal . without a serious strategy to keep staff work in the NHS , Ministers will be forever run to catch up with themselves . yet the Secretary of State have completely fail to put forward a proper plan to end the crippling strike that be have such a huge impact on patient care . six hundred and fifty thousand operation and appointment have be cancel because of industrial action . next week , junior doctor will walk out for five day , follow by two day of consultant ' strike . after seven month of disruption , can the Health Secretary tell we when he and the Prime Minister will finally do their job , sit down and negotiate with staff , and bring an end to this Tory chaos ? the one part of Labour ' s workforce plan that Ministers have not steal be our plan to fund it by scrap the non - dom tax status . in fact , when the Health Secretary be tour the medium studio yesterday , he be ask nine time how he be go to pay for the plan and he completely fail to answer . he have have a little more time to prepare , so I be go to try again . will he fund it through high taxis , when we already have the high tax burden for 70 year , or will he fund it through high borrowing , when our nation ' s debt be at record level ? labour will introduce plan only when we can show how they will be pay for , because that be what taxpayer deserve . it be high time that Conservatives do the same . from the windfall tax to help for mortgage holder to a proper plan for the NHS workforce , where labour lead , the Conservatives only follow . this tired , discredited Government have have their day . the public know that it be time for change , and in their heart Government Members too know that it be time for change . it be time for they to move aside and let Labour finally deliver . well , that really be a confused response . the hon . Lady begin with reference to labour ' s proposal and the claim that our plan follow they . I take the precaution of bring labour ' s announcement with I to the Chamber . member can look at it in their own time , but it do not use the word " reform " once , despite the fact that " train , retain , reform " be a key part of our proposal . proposal for reform include move from five - year to four - year medical undergraduate training ; the expansion of role such as physician associate ; a significant expansion in the use of apprenticeship ; and flexibility for retire consultant , so that they can return to role in , for example , out - patient service . a wide range of reform come about as a result of the consultation with 60 different nhs organisation and be a key feature of the plan , but in Labour ' s proposal reform be not mention once . in addition , Labour ' s proposal be for a 10 - year period . our plan cover 15 year . its proposal cover 23 , 000 additional health role ; our proposal deal with 50 , 000 . I could go on and talk about the fact that the Labour proposal do not even mention GP trainee . Labour Members keep come to the House and say that primary care be important , but their proposal do not even touch on the workforce with regard to GPs . they do not even mention pharmacist , even though , as part of a primary care recovery plan , a key chunk of our proposal be Pharmacy First . it be extremely important that we can deliver service to patient in innovative way . the ultimate irony be that the shadow Health Secretary , in one of his many interview , include interview to promote his book , say that the NHS " must reform or die " . he say that it must reform , yet labour ' s proposal do not mention reform at all . labour welcome the plan , but it go on to say that it will take too long to implement , while claim that it be its plan , which , again , point to the confusion among Labour Members . let I remind the House of what have be do . we have a manifesto commitment for 50 , 000 additional nurse — we be on track to deliver that , with 44 , 000 in place . we have a manifesto commitment to have 26 , 000 additional role in primary care , and we have meet that , with 29 , 000 role in place . in 2018 , we make a commitment to five new medical school in part of the country where it be hard to recruit . we have deliver that — a 25 % expansion in the number of medical student , who will come on stream in hospital next summer . however , as we celebrate the 75th anniversary of the NHS , it be right that we also look beyond that to the long - term need of the NHS . that be exactly what the plan do with its doubling of medical place , but alongside that , it innovate by embrace thing like a medical apprenticeship so that we can look at different way of deliver training . the hon . Lady talk about strike , which be a further area of confusion on the Labour Benches . Labour Members say that they do not support a 35 % pay rise for junior doctor , on the ground that the shadow Chancellor , the right hon . member for Leeds West ( Rachel Reeves ) , say that they should not . either Labour Members want to support the junior doctor , or they do not — once again , their position seem confused . I will finish with one final area of confusion on the Labour Benches . the hon . Lady talk about the elastic non - dom revenue raiser , despite the fact that the former shadow Chancellor , Ed Balls , have say that it would not raise the fund that be claim . he have say that it would do quite the opposite : it would deter investment in the UK . in addition , Labour have already spend those fund on a range of measure , such as the breakfast club that Labour Members come to the House and talk about . the reality be that it would not fund labour ' s proposal , whereas we have make a commitment to back our plan with £ 2 . 4 billion of funding from the Treasury . this be a historic moment as we celebrate the 75th anniversary of the NHS . it be a long - term commitment from a Government who be back the NHS through the big investment in the NHS estate — over £ 20 billion — and a series of recovery programme , expand our diagnostic capacity and our surgical hub . that be why the workforce plan be truly innovative . it do not just train more staff or offer opportunity to retain more staff ; it reform as well — something that be sadly lack in Labour ' s proposal . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . this be a serious piece of work , and it be very welcome . despite call from people like I to get on with it , it be right for the Government to take their time and get it right . the Select Committee will scrutinise it — as we do — on 12 July . the training piece be very strong . double the number of medical school place have to be right , and I be glad that the Secretary of State think of it . on retention , if we be say — rightly , I would contest — that it be not all about pay , what role do he envisage the integrate care system and , therefore , the trust have in support staff as he make the " one workforce " that be mention in section 5 , with which I agree , come to pass ? characteristically , my hon . friend the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee make an extremely pertinent point about the role of the ics . as we move to place - base commissioning and look to integrate more , the interplay between the workforce in the NHS and in social care will be a key area where the ics will be extremely important . the ics will have a particular role in the apprenticeship and vocational training , which be key retention tool in those part of the country where it be hard to recruit , as well as in offer more flexibility to staff . when I talk to NHS staff , they often talk about have different need at different stage of their career — whether for childcare commitment , which relate to the measure the Chancellor set out in the Budget , care for an elderly relative , or want to retire and work in more flexible way — and the ics have a key role to play in that . I welcome my hon . friend ' s comment that this be a serious and complex piece of work , and that it be right that we take our time to get it correct . despite the significant desert of dentist , I note from the plan that we will not see an increase in dental training place next year , the year after or the year after that , mean that we will not see more dentist for nearly another decade . we have a crisis now , so what be the Secretary of State go to do about it ? we be already see a fifth more work than last year , due to the flexibility that the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my hon . friend the Member for Harborough ( Neil o ' Brien ) announce , include the ability for dentist to take on more work within their commission and the change to the unit of dental activity pricing to well reflect more complex work . of course , we have 6 . 5 % more dentist than in 2010 , but we also recognise that within the £ 3 billion budget , we want to go far . that be why we be look at proposal to go far than the measure announce , but progress be be make , with a fifth more activity than last year . I welcome the workforce plan and applaud NHS England ' s ambition . however , for the plan to be successful , it be vital that we promote career option that often go unseen . I therefore urge my right hon . friend to work with the Education Secretary and NHS England to ensure that young people be well informed about the myriad opportunity in the allied health profession and as healthcare scientist before choose GCSE , a - level or university option . my hon . friend raise a brilliant point . I do not know if member know , but there be 350 different type of role in the NHS . it be really important that we get the right information to child whose parent be perhaps not inform about those opportunity . one point on which I slightly take issue with my hon . friend be that it be not just those at the start of their career who need to be aware of the opportunity . this be about offer opportunity to people throughout their career to progress and to take on more advanced role . I strongly believe that we should not define people ' s future career by where they be at 21 or 22 ; they should have the opportunity to progress . that be a key part of the workforce plan , and I think it be a key conservative principle that they have that ladder of opportunity throughout their time in the NHS . I associate myself with the remark the Secretary of State make about Bob Kerslake . he be a true public servant , and his death be our loss . what be the point of a workforce plan if the Secretary of State be not actually talk to the workforce ? when will he talk to the junior doctor and the consultant ? can I also ask whether the work on the workforce plan will start forthwith or sometime in the future ? the fact that we be talk to the workforce be show by the fact that we have reach agreement with the large workforce group in the NHS . indicate dissent . the right hon . Lady , for whom I have a huge amount of respect , be shake her head , but it be a fact that the large workforce group in the NHS be those on " Agenda for Change " , which cover more than 1 million healthcare worker from nurse , midwife and paramedic through to porter , cleaner and many other . we have reach agreement with the NHS Staff Council , and those sum — the 5 % , plus the lump sum in recognition of their tremendous work — be go into pay packet this month . so we have reach agreement , notwithstanding discussion with the junior doctor . they still demand 35 % , and that be not affordable . I welcome this long - term plan , particularly its recognition that the skillset require in the NHS over the next 10 or 15 year , with the requirement for multidisciplinary work and generalise clinical skill , be go to change . do my right hon . friend agree that two thing be need for implementation ? one be to improve the sense of culture in the NHS , which could lead to well retention . the second element be to ensure that digital innovation , particularly the use of artificial intelligence to improve clinical skill and other skill , be roll out more generally in the NHS . we need to diffuse that innovation a lot more to support the critical new skillset that be require for a modern health service . my hon . friend be exactly right . as a former Health Minister , he know these issue extremely well . there be a requirement — this be something the chief medical officer , Professor Sir Chris Whitty , have speak about — for more generalist skill in the NHS , not least give that one in four adult now have two or more health condition . we need flexibility to respond to change not just in technology , but in service design , which will evolve as well . my hon . friend be also right about the wide issue of culture . I think the whole House be concern about recent report of sexual assault link to the NHS . one of the key feature of the agreement we have reach with the NHS Staff Council be to work more in partnership on violence against member of NHS staff . I know there will be consensus in the House that that be unacceptable , so we be work with trade union colleague on how we tackle it . again , with racism , we still have too many case of concern . there be a number of area of culture that we be work constructively with trade union colleague and other to address . I thank the Secretary of State for his comment about Bob Kerslake , whose spell in public service include his time as chief executive of Sheffield City Council . he continue to have many role in the city , where he will be much miss . after this Government ' s 13 year in charge , morale in the NHS be clearly at rock bottom , with the value of pay fall , pressure increase and a record number of staff — almost 170 , 000 — leave the NHS last year . the ceo of NHS Providers say that that must be reverse , but all the Secretary of State talk about be a little bit of work flexibility . do he recognise that he have to address the crisis in morale to stem the tide of people leave the NHS ? it be simply not correct to say that this be simply about flexibility — for example , look at the very significant change make on pension tax . that be the no . 1 demand of the British Medical Association consultant committee , and the Government agree to it . a significant amount of work be go on . the NHS people plan talk about not just flexibility but some of the cultural point that be important . some role that have be introduce need to expand , such as some of the advanced position like advanced clinical nurse or physician associate , where there be opportunity for people to progress their career . it be worth point out that , once again , not a single Welsh Labour MP have turn up to defend their party ' s record in Wales . as we set out a long - term workforce plan , we be set out that ambition for England , but we see very little from the Labour party in Wales . I congratulate my right hon . friend on this welcome announcement . I be happy to join his celebration of the 75th anniversary in the most practical way by visit the new child ' s emergency department at the William Harvey Hospital in my constituency . it be open for patient this week and will be extremely welcome . he will be aware that some of the problem of the NHS can be solve only if we solve problem in the social care system as well . I urge he to follow up this extremely useful and welcome workforce plan for NHS worker with a similar idea for the social care system , because unless we fix one , we will not fix the other . my right hon . friend make a valid point about the integration between health and social care , and that be a flagship part of the reform in 2022 , which bring the NHS and social care together through the integrate care system . I join he in welcome the news about William Harvey Hospital , which be extremely important to the local area . on social care more widely , we must also be cognisant of the difference . the NHS and social care employ roughly similar number at around 1 . 5 million people , but one be one employer and the other be 15 , 000 employer , so the dynamic between the two be different . the prioritisation of that integration be exactly right . that be why my right hon . friend the Chancellor announce up to £ 7 . 5 billion for social care in the autumn statement , recognise that what happen in social care have a big impact on discharge in hospital and hospital flow , which in turn impact on ambulance handover . after promise of new hospital that have not get off the ground and 6 , 000 more gps that never come to pass , it be fair to say that the british public will judge the Government on their action not their word . let I press the Secretary of State far on social care . he will remember that at the start of this year , people be die in the back of ambulance and in hospital corridor , in part because people could not be discharge from hospital into social care . if the Government believe , as I do , that we can not fix the nhs if we do not fix social care , will he also bring forward a workforce plan for our social care sector ? that repeat the previous question , so I will not repeat the answer . it be slightly ironic to call for a plan for a new hospital programme and for a long - term workforce plan , and then criticise we when we deliver on both of those , as we have do with more than £ 20 billion of investment in the new hospital programme , which we announce last month , £ 2 . 4 billion in the first ever long - term workforce plan and the big ever expansion of workforce training in the history of the NHS . of course we need to take action in the short term to deal with the consequence of the pandemic . that be what our recovery plan do . the urgent emergency care plan that I announce in January take specific action on demand management in the community . there be measure upstream on boost capacity in emergency department and downstream on thing such as virtual ward . a huge amount of work be go on . we be put more than £ 1 billion into 5 , 000 more permanent bed to get more bed capacity into hospital . on social care , in the autumn statement the Chancellor commit up to £ 7 . 5 billion of further investment over two year , and it be part of our reform to well integrate health and social care . I welcome the NHS long - term workforce plan and in particular its emphasis on training , retention and reform . at the moment , about a quarter of NHS staff be recruit from abroad . can the Secretary of State confirm to the House and my constituent that this plan enable the development of a strong pool of homegrown talent , so that we can reduce foreign recruitment more towards 10 % , which would be a lot more sustainable for the long - term future of the NHS ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . as we boost our domestic workforce training , there will be scope to reduce the number recruit internationally . from 1948 onwards , international recruitment have always play an important role in the NHS , and we be hugely grateful for the service offer by those recruit internationally , but we also recognise that as demography change in other country , there will be increase competition for healthcare worker around the world , so it be right that we boost our domestic supply . that be what this plan do , and it be why this be a historic moment for the NHS in make that long - term commitment that will in turn reduce the demand on the international workforce . I , too , add my condolence to the family of Bob Kerslake , who do excellent work in my borough tackle poverty . I would congratulate the Secretary of State on this announcement if it do not come 13 year into a Conservative Government . it be a bit like Bobby Ewing come out of the shower , the way the Secretary of State be say , " I ' ve just realise there ' s a crisis in the NHS . " we go into covid with 2 . 4 million people on waiting list , which be a record . it be now up to 7 . 4 million . the report itself say that we have 154 , 000 few staff than we need today in the NHS . after 13 year in government , if the Tories really care about the NHS , it would not be in the state it be in , would it ? the hon . Gentleman ignore the fact that since 2010 , there have be a 25 % increase in the NHS workforce . More than a quarter of a million more people now work in the NHS than be the case in 2010 . there be a 50 % increase in the number of consultant work in the NHS today compare with 2010 , but the reality be that demand have increase as a result of an old population , advance in medicine and in particular the demand of the pandemic , and that be what we be respond to . we be also take measure in parallel . we be on track to deliver our manifesto commitment for 50 , 000 more nurse , with 44 , 000 now in place . we also have beat our manifesto target on primary care , with 29 , 000 additional role in place . that mean that people can get to the specialist they need , which in turn free up GPs for those thing that only GPs can do and ensure that patient can access care much more quickly . accord to the King ' s Fund , the proportion of GDP take by the NHS have increase in the past 50 year from 3 . 4 % to 8 . 2 % . on the same trajectory , in 50 year ' time , it will take a fifth of all our gdp . that be totally unsustainable , especially as someone ' s only right , despite the fact they be pay ever increase amount of tax , be to join the back of the queue . I ask again : will the Secretary of State launch a study — and , if necessary , appoint a royal commission — on fundamental reform of the whole nature and funding of our health system , so that we can learn from every other developed country , such as Australia , France , Italy and Germany , where they unleash private sector investment into healthcare and give people right to their healthcare , while ensure that those who need it get free healthcare at the point of delivery ? I hope my right hon . friend be pleased to see the measure we be take with the Lord O ' Shaughnessy review on clinical research trial to make it easy and fast to do research in the NHS . that in turn attract private investment to the NHS . he will have see the announcement I make on Tuesday of £ 96 million for 93 different research project , such as at Great Ormond Street Hospital , where we have allocate £ 3 . 5 million for research into rare condition in child . that translate into research that be then deploy , usually in adult . we be invest there , and we be screen 100 , 000 child through Genomics England . we have get a deal with Moderna and biontech so that we can have bespoke cancer vaccine . on Monday , we roll out national lung cancer screening . previously , in our most deprived community we be detect lung cancer late — 80 % be diagnose late — but in those pilot we turn that on its head with 76 % detect early . I know that my right hon . friend , as a former Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , will agree that by detect early , not only be patient outcome far well but treatment be far cheap , whether that be for lung cancer or through our innovation on HIV screening in emergency department pick up HIV in people who do not realise that they have it . when we treat it early , the patient outcome be well , and it be fiscally much more sustainable . that be how we will address some of his concern . the Secretary of State could do something now — not in eight year ' time — to relieve the pressure on our NHS , and it have nothing to do with pension fund . figure from the Royal College of General Practitioners show that 53 % of GPs think they can not work in a flexible way to balance family and work commitment . it be little wonder that GPs age 35 to 44 be the big group on the retention scheme who be leave the profession — it do not take a rocket scientist to work out that it be the mum . when I ask the Secretary of State ' s Department what he be do to monitor flexible working and whether we be get role that people can do — not just sit with their 16 hour but find way to work and balance family — it say that it do not monitor the situation . it be not even look at it . we be lose brilliant staff and waste billion of pound , and we will have a delay before our constituent see the benefit of any workforce plan unless that change . I have listen to he and look at the statement that do not make a single mention of childcare , although he do refer to it in pass . what will he actually do not just for retiree but for doctor with family to get they back into the NHS so that we can all benefit ? I think there be actually a lot of agreement between the hon . Lady and I . she talk about the plan , and have read it a number of time — that be part of my role — I know that childcare be specifically refer to in the summary , no less , in term of the key issue that it go on to set out . it go into detail about our proposal , include link up to the NHS people plan and great flexibility in term of role and people retire . one aspect of the NHS Staff Council deal be the expansion of pension abatement rule . so there be a huge amount . the hon . Lady call for more flexibility . I set out a number of the area , and she do not seem to realise that there be three section to the plan , with the second be all about give great flexibility to help retain our staff . so the plan address the point she raise ; that just do not seem to be the answer she want to hear . as for flexibility be important to mum , yes it be , and the NHS have a largely female workforce , but it be also important to dad . it be important to all NHS staff that we have that flexibility . the NHS today , at 1 . 4 million employee , be the fifth - large employer in the world , and if the ambition in this welcome plan be meet , it will be the large employer in the world . that raise the question of how effective the management of those human resource be . it be a little disappointing that there be so little commentary in the plan on two important management issue : the ambition on improve the quality of management system , and particularly clarification of decision right and responsibility ; and the quality of accounting control system and how the NHS seek to improve they . will my right hon . friend ensure that the NHS look at those two important matter ? those be both fair point . I know that my hon . friend come at this with great commercial experience , and I hope he know that I have an interest in those issue . just to reassure he , the plan be iterative ; it be not a one - off . it be a framework from which we will do further work . indeed , one of the area that I be often criticise for be my interest in datum and variation in datum across the NHS — he and I probably agree on that more than some of those who be critical . that speak to his point — the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee ' s point relate to this — that in a system the size of the NHS , datum on the performance of the integrate care board and their role in term of the workforce be one area that the House will want to return to . we know a Government be out of idea when they copy the Opposition ' s plan to train the doctor and nurse that the NHS so desperately need . the majority of those policy will not be implement until after the general election — long after the british public have boot the Conservatives out of power because of their industrial - scale incompetence , which include crash the economy . the Secretary of State will be aware that the NHS be short of more than 150 , 000 staff right now . will he take responsibility for those shortage and admit that , have the Government act more than a decade ago , the NHS would have the staff that it need right now ? all I can say be that the hon . Gentleman clearly have not read the plan . if he have , he would have see that it be develop by NHS England . that the Labour party be claim authorship of it be slightly odd . as I point out in response to the shadow Health Minister , the hon . member for Leicester West ( Liz Kendall ) , Labour ' s plan fail to mention reform at all , or GP training or physio . our plan be 15 year , Labour ' s be 10 ; it be a fraction of the size and it be flawed in many other way . this plan have be develop by NHS England with contribution from 60 different organisation across the NHS . that be why it have be so widely welcome by many in the NHS , who have call for it for some time . we have a superb new accident and emergency in Scunthorpe , and we be press ahead with plan for a large , state - of - the - art community diagnostic centre . I have live locally all my life , and those be some of the most significant upgrade we have see in a generation . but there be thing to do — we certainly need more nhs dentist . would the Secretary of State consider a tie - in so that newly qualified dentist spend a minimum percentage of their time deliver NHS care ? I be pleased to see those service go into Scunthorpe . that underscore the investment we be make now while prepare for the long term , through the large ever expansion in workforce training in the NHS ' s history . my hon . friend be right about the importance of tie - in . let I explain why that matter in particular for dentist : around two third of dentist do not go on to do nhs work . that be why the plan have look at tie - in for dentistry , which we will explore in the week and month ahead . [ Official Report , 12 July 2023 , Vol . 736 , c . 7mc . ] despite what the Secretary of State say , the Conservatives have finally admit that they be out of idea , and be adopt Labour ' s workforce plan . the NHS be short of more than 150 , 000 staff right now . more worryingly , the plan include no mention of eye health , despite the crisis . in ophthalmology , 80 % of eye unit do not have enough consultant to meet current demand . will the Secretary of State say how many year it will take for the NHS to have enough ophthalmologist ? why will he not back my Bill for a national eye health strategy for England , which will seek to tackle the crisis in eye health ? the question start by say that we do not want plan for the future , we want to deal with the present , and finish by ask if we can have a plan for the future rather than for the present . the plan set out significant additional number . significant investment be go into eye service here and now . let I give the House one example : at King ' s Lynn hospital , in addition to our investment in a new hospital to replace the reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete hospital , and in addition to the new diagnostic centre , I have the opportunity in the summer to open a new £ 3 million eye centre , which be double the number of patient who receive eye care in King ' s Lynn . that be just one practical example of our investment in eye service now . may I add my word of condolence for Lord Kerslake , who serve on the great Grimsby regeneration board , which oversee regeneration in the Grimsby - Cleethorpes area ? we greatly value his experience and advice . follow the question from my hon . friend the Member for Scunthorpe ( Holly Mumby - Croft ) , it be important that we tie in dentist — and I would suggest GPs — to NHS service , but could they also be direct to area of great need , such as northern Lincolnshire ? the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my hon . friend the Member for Harborough ( Neil o ' Brien ) be look at how we deliver more service within the exist contract , and at what incentive and reform can be put in place to ensure that the part of the country that find it hard to recruit dentist be well able to do so , through both our domestic supply and international recruitment . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement and the positivity he be try to bring forward . the NHS workforce plan have conclude that the number of place in medical school each year will rise from some 7 , 500 to 10 , 000 , but in Northern Ireland it be a very different story : I know it be a devolved matter , but the Royal College of Nursing be face cut that could result in the number of place fall to 1 , 025 per academic year . will the extra money that the Secretary of State announce be subject to Barnett consequential ? I know he be always keen to promote all this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland together , so what discussion have he have with the Northern Ireland Department of Health and the Northern Ireland Assembly to ensure that Northern Ireland be not leave behind ? when we be cry out for staff , our student should have a real opportunity to learn and work in the NHS field . Barnett consequential will apply to the £ 2 . 4 billion funding over the five year . in respect of new role , regulatory change apply on a UK - wide basis . the plan itself be for the NHS in England , but we stand ready to work with partner across the United Kingdom where there be share learning on which we can work together . I be really pleased to see the 50 % increase in the number of annual training place for GPs — it be music to my ear — but they will need somewhere to work . the £ 20 billion for the hospital programme be great , but when I look at section 106 application for my constituency , I still see health get a tiny proportion compare with education and the environment . may I have an assurance from the Secretary of State that as we increase the number of GPs in the primary care team , they will not have to scrabble around try to get little bit of money for planning application here and there , but that there will be a guarantee capital budget for new doctor , in the way that we be sort that out for hospital ? my hon . friend raise a perfectly valid point . as we expand the primary care workforce , there be a capital consequence . the 50 % expansion he talk about build on the expansion from 2 , 100 in training in 2014 to 4 , 000 now , so there have already be an expansion , but we be take that far by 50 % — and on the high figure . his point about section 106 application be absolutely valid , and that be part of the primary care recovery plan . I understand that he be discuss the importance of get that funding in place with the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my hon . friend the Member for Harborough . give the number of pressure and crisis that our NHS face , it would be a mistake for the Secretary of State to be see as complacent in how he deliver his workforce plan . our job as MPs be to speak the truth to power , so I want to raise with he the lack of cancer treatment capacity , particularly in radiotherapy . international comparator suggest that between 55 % and 60 % of cancer patient should be able to access radiotherapy either directly or in tandem with other treatment . currently , only 27 % do . what be the Secretary of State do to increase the size of the highly specialised and relatively small radiotherapy workforce ? the target be for 85 % of patient to start their first treatment within 62 day of an urgent GP referral . what be the current figure ? to take the hon . Gentleman ' s first point , the plan do not get into individual specialty . that be a Health Committee recommendation , which I have discuss with the Committee ' s Chair , my hon . friend the Member for Winchester ( Steve Brine ) . there be a clear reason for that . within the framework of number , the impact of AI and service design will evolve over the 15 year , so it be right that we commit to the number and then the NHS take that work forward with individual speciality and have discussion with the royal college . the hon . Gentleman make a perfectly valid point about boost capacity . we have already roll out 108 of the 160 community diagnostic centre that we have commit to deliver . we be also look to innovate , and I will give two practical example . our deal with Moderna , which be look at individual bespoke vaccine for hard to treat cancer such as pancreatic cancer , will allow we to get ahead on that . we be already see a significant reduction in cervical cancer as a result of prevention measure . likewise , by go into deprive community with a high preponderance of smoking , the lung cancer screening programme be detect lung cancer , which often present late , much early , which in turn be have a significant impact on survival rate . I recently meet a constituent who raise the issue of child ' s oral health and share with I her concern about the staffing crisis in specialist paediatric dentistry . accord to the Government ' s own statistic , which be release in March , 29 . 3 % of five - year - old in England have enamel and / or dentinal decay , and the figure be as high as 38 . 7 % in the north - west . the workforce plan talk of expand dentistry training place by 24 % by 2028 - 29 , and by 40 % by 2031 - 32 . I note the Secretary of State ' s response to my hon . friend the Member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) . however , there be no specific mention of specialist paediatric dentistry in the plan , so what will the Secretary of State do to help those child who be desperate for specialist dental treatment right now ? without repeat my previous answer on specialty , we be boost a number of area . there be 5 , 000 more doctor and almost 13 , 000 more nurse this year than last year . I have already touch on increase the number in primary care . there be 44 , 000 more nurse , so we be on track to deliver our manifesto target of 50 , 000 . there be 25 % more within the workforce of the NHS compare with 2010 . we be boost the workforce overall . the plan be iterative and further work will go into which speciality be develop and how resource be prioritise as service be redesign . the Secretary of State will be aware that the recruitment and retention issue face the NHS be particularly bad in rural area . we feel the brunt of that in North Shropshire , with some of the bad ambulance waiting time , cancer treatment rate and diabetic care rate in the country . the plan do not go into much detail on what will be do to help rural area , but it do acknowledge that by 2037 , a third of all over - 85 will live in rural place . I urge the Secretary of State to rural - proof this plan and to find way to work on both the retention and the recruitment of healthcare professional across the whole spectrum in North Shropshire and the rest of rural Britain . the hon . Lady raise a fair point . it also apply to the issue of stroke . the elderly population have increase in many coastal and rural community . that have create significant pressure : for legacy reason , service be often in other part of the country . we have five new medical school in place , and we have look at those part of the country where it be often hard to recruit . part of the expansion will be to look far at what service be need in different area . the hon . Lady ' s point also speak to that raise by the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee . by give great autonomy to place - base commission through the integrate care system , we will enable people at a more local level to design the service and the workforce that they need , and that include the flexibility require to retain local staff . I welcome the workforce plan . give that it have take 13 year , one tend to wonder why it have take so long , but then of course we remember that there be a general election on the horizon . page 121 set out a labour productivity rate of 1 . 5 % to 2 % per year . that have never be achieve by the NHS or any other comparable health system , so what assumption be the Health and Social Care Secretary make in relation to achieve that ? first , this be a plan develop by colleague in NHS England , so these be assumption that have be agree by those who lead within the NHS . it be about ensure that people operate at the top of their licence . it be about have new and expand role , such as advanced practitioner and associate role , that allow people to progress in their career and , in do so , free up capacity for senior clinician , who often spend time do thing that do not need to be do by people in those role . of course , there be also rapid change in technology . we often talk about the development in artificial intelligence , and I have touch on development in the life science industry . I have also mention advance in screening and genomic . all those development will in turn help we to prevent health condition , and treat those condition early will be not only well for the patient , but well value for money for the taxpayer . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement , and for respond to question for 59 minute . point of order on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . it concern the status of the Economic Activity of Public Bodies ( Overseas Matters ) Bill . , which we be about to discuss . it occur to I during my examination of the Bill that there be , at the very least , a prima facie case that it be a hybrid Bill because of the private interest engage alongside its public element . a number of class of people be particularly affect . the private right of all the group in our society who be advocate for palestinian right will be affect in one way or another by the suppression of their ability to express their point of view , and that will absolutely apply to administrator of public fund . those who manage local government pension scheme , for example , as well as the member of those scheme , will not be able to invest in a way that be free , particularly in respect of the state of Israel , the occupy Golan Heights and the occupy palestinian territory , because of the exemption contain in the Bill . local councillor will be similarly affect when it come to express their point of view about the merit of be able to exercise power over economic asset for which they be democratically accountable . Muslims in the UK who support human right in Palestine will also be disproportionately affect . I have submit a long note on the basis of what legal advice I have be able to obtain at this short notice . it be my request to you , Mr Deputy Speaker , to rule that there be a prima facie case that this be a hybrid Bill , and I invite you to refer it to a committee of expert that you would appoint to examine that case . I thank the hon . member for give notice of his point of order . accord to Erskine May , paragraph 30 . 57 , " hybrid bill be public bill which be consider to affect specific private or local interest , in a manner different from the private or local interest of other person or body of the same category , so as to attract the provision of the standing order relate to private business … such bill be subject in both Houses to certain proceeding additional to the normal stage in the passing of public bill . the Speaker have define a hybrid bill as ' a public bill which affect a particular private interest in a manner different from the private interest of other person or body of the same category or class ' … it be not the practice to treat as hybrid , bill deal with matter of public policy whereby private right over large area or of a whole class be affect . " all Bills be scrutinise on publication by the Clerk of Legislation in the Public Bill Office , in consultation with his opposite number in the House of Lords , to see whether they be prima facie hybrid and need to be refer to the examiner . this Bill be not refer to the examiner . however , the hon . Member have put his view on the record , and if he wish further clarification , I suggest that he go back to the Public Bill Office to put forward his view one more time . economic Activity of Public Bodies ( Overseas Matters ) Bill Second read the reasoned amendment in the name of the Leader of the opposition have be select . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . I hope the House will allow I first to pay tribute to Lord Kerslake , who , as the House will know , die over the weekend after a short illness . Bob Kerslake be a true public servant , steep throughout his professional life in local and central Government , and wholly dedicate throughout his career to improve the life of citizen . he begin his career with Greater London Council and go on to run , with distinction , Sheffield City Council — the fourth large in England — before make the switch to the corridor of Whitehall . he be the first chief executive of the Homes and Communities Agency , the forerunner to Homes England , a vital arm of Government in make sure that affordable housing be available to all . he be deservedly promote to become permanent secretary to the Department for Communities and Local Government and , later , head of the home civil service , where he serve with great distinction and kindness . speak personally as a Minister in the government where he serve , I be deeply grateful to Bob for his dedication , his generosity of spirit and his wise advice . after leave Government , Bob lead the inquiry into the 2017 Manchester Arena bombing . more recently , he chair the UK2070 Commission on regional inequality . my colleague and I greatly value his work on homelessness with the Kerslake commission , and I think we all agree that his energy , knowledge and wisdom will be greatly miss . I know that right hon . and hon . member across the House will wish to join I in send our deep condolence to his family in their grief . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] I thank you , Mr Speaker , and colleague across the House . the Bill do four thing : it honour a manifesto promise to which this government recommit in the last queen ' s Speech ; it affirm the important principle that UK foreign policy be a matter for the UK Government ; it ensure that local authority concentrate on serve their resident , not direct resource inefficiently ; and , critically , it provide protection for minority community , especially the jewish community , against campaign that harm community cohesion and fuel antisemitism . in our 2019 manifesto , this Government commit to " ban public body from impose their own direct or indirect boycott , disinvestment or sanction campaign against foreign country . " the Bill do just that — no more and no less . I think it do a fifth thing , which be to introduce a thought crime . be I to be a leader of a local authority oppose to the provision of this Bill , once it become an Act , if I continue to say that I disagree with its provision and what I might wish to have do with the power I retain be those provision not to have be make law , I would be break the law . that can not be right in a free society , can it ? it would not be right if the Bill restrict local authority from adopt policy that they consider to be in line with Government policy . it be also the case that it would be problematic if we be to restrict freedom of speech in any way , but the Bill do not do that . rise — not at this point — I will in a second . it be important to stress what the Bill do not do . it do not restrict local authority adopt policy in line with formal , agree Government sanction , embargo and restriction . it do not impede local authority consider legitimate commercial factor relate to business with a foreign state , and exercise due diligence in the award of contract . and it do not prevent a local authority from exercise due diligence when consider whether a supplier or investment target might be involve in environmental misconduct , bribery , competition law infringement or labour misconduct , include human trafficking and modern slavery . in no way do the Bill circumscribe anyone ' s right to freedom of speech or conscience . what the Bill do do be prevent local authority from single out individual nation for discriminatory treatment on the basis of an ideological opposition to that nation and its fundamental basis . action be require here because there be an exist , organised and malign campaign that aim to target and delegitimise the world ' s only jewish state . that campaign seek to persuade public body to make commercial decision solely on the basis of harm that state and its people . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for give way so soon in this debate . be not the reason every single Conservative Member stand on a manifesto commitment to bring forward such legislation that we understand that there be something fundamentally illiberal , leftist and with deep , ugly connection to antisemitism at the heart of the boycott , divestment and sanction movement ? that be what we be try to tackle today . my right hon . friend be absolutely right . I shall go on to say more about the nature of the BDS campaign because we be not talk in the abstract ; we be talk in concrete term about a campaign that exist , and have be in operation now for nearly 20 year , base on a premise that seek to delegitimise the state of Israel . the campaign also lead directly , as I shall point out , to antisemitic incident and a loss of community cohesion . I just remind the Secretary of State that the Bill go way beyond the activity of the state of Israel and will apply potentially to other area of foreign policy , too . have he consider whether the interaction of clause 1 ( 7 ) and clause 4 will disproportionately interfere with the freedom of expression , and of conscience and belief , of individual who be make , or have a stake in , the procurement and investment decision of public body ? my view and that of many other lawyer who have look at the Bill be that it will . why have he not produce a human right memorandum analyse the extent to which the Bill interfere with right under article 10 and article 9 , on freedom of belief , of the european convention on human right , and article 19 of the international covenant on civil and political right ? will he do so ? absolutely . nothing in the Bill conflict with any aspect of the echr , not least article 10 . I welcome the fact that my right hon . friend be bring this legislation to the House today . he rightly mention the unsavoury connotation of much of the criticism that the Bill be face , particularly in connection with the BDS movement . on that point , could he clarify his thought on Richard Hermer KC , who have provide advice to the shadow Front - Bench team on this legislation ? Mr Hermer have previously author a chapter in a book call " corporate complicity in Israel ' s occupation : evidence from the London session of the Russell Tribunal on Palestine " , which be edit by some extremely interesting people — I fear that they be interesting in the most negative sense . be this really the calibre of individual who should be advise the official opposition ? my right hon . friend raise an important question because the opposition have table a reason amendment . I believe they have do so in good faith . as the hon . and learn Member for Edinburgh South West ( Joanna Cherry ) point out , some lawyer take a different view from the Government . one of those lawyer be commission by the Labour party to produce a legal opinion , but the gentleman concern , a distinguished KC , have a record in this area — a record of political commitment that everyone can see clearly predispose he towards a political and particular view on this question . on that point — no . I be merely point out what be in the public domain . let we turn to the nature of the BDS campaign . will my right hon . friend give way ? not at this point . the BDS movement deliberately ask public body to treat Israel differently from any other nation on the globe . it ask they to treat the middle east ' s only democracy as a pariah state and to end link with those who have a commercial presence there . let I be clear : there be legitimate reason to criticise the israeli Government , to question their policy and , if individual so wish , to repudiate their leadership , as there be with many other country . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? no . nothing in the Bill prevent or impede the loud of criticism of Israel ' s Government and leader , include by elect politician at all level of government . will my right hon . friend give way on that point ? no . but the BDS movement ask that , alone among nation , Israel be treat as illegitimate in itself — will the Minister give way on that point ? no . the founder of the BDS movement , Omar Barghouti , have be clear in his opposition to the existence of Israel as a jewish state . he have attack what he call the " racist principle of Zionism " — that is , the fundamental right of the jewish people to self - determination . the man who found and be in charge of the BDS movement have argue that zionist principle " maintain Israel ' s character as a colonial , ethnocentric , apartheid state . " on that basis , he oppose any idea of a two - state solution — a secure Israel alongside a viable and democratic Palestine . instead , the BDS movement ' s leader want a " one - state solution … where , by definition , Jews will be a minority . " it be entirely open to any individual to agree with that proposition , but it be no part of this Government ' s determination or intent to give any heart or succour to a movement that argue that the two - state solution be wrong and that Jews should be a minority in one state . can my right hon . friend help we here ? as the effect of israeli policy since 1967 have be to build out of existence the possibility of a two - state solution by settle 700 , 000 Jews who have arrive in the state of Israel , with their right to go there under israeli law , it be now no long possible for there to be a two - state solution , so what be british policy to be ? british policy be , as my hon . friend know , to promote a two - state solution . I know that he have a long , passionate and commit interest in this subject and I respect the compassion and knowledge that he bring to the debate but , respectfully , I disagree with he . I believe that a two - state solution be the right approach , which the BDS movement do not believe . I very much welcome the legislation that the Secretary of State be introduce , and we as a party will support it when the time come tonight . there be many example in Northern Ireland of council have overstep the mark by boycott good from Israel and penalise and focus attention on the small jewish community . local authority should be work hard to support diversity and good relation , not ridicule and condemn our small and minority community . it be clear to I that the point of the legislation be to make sure that that do not happen , so let we make sure that it go through tonight . I agree , as I do almost always , with every word that the hon . Gentleman say . rise — I will take intervention in due course , but I want to make a little progress first . I want to be clear about what the BDS movement be and what it do . the BDS movement be not , in its origin or operation , a campaign that be design to change Israel ' s Government or shift Israel ' s policy . it be design to erase Israel ' s identity as a home for the jewish people . again , the founder of the BDS campaign have be clear , say : " a jewish state in Palestine in any shape or form can not but contravene the basic right of the … palestinian population and … ought to be oppose categorically " . alongside those who lead the BDS movement on the BDS national committee sit member of the Council of National and Islamic Forces in Palestine , a coalition of Hamas , palestinian Islamic Jihad and the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine — all militant organisation that be proscribe by this Government . will the Secretary of State give way ? I will give way in due course , but not at this point . the effect of the campaign be sadly manifold . the BDS campaign oppose effort to bring Israelis and Palestinians together to broker peace through a two - state solution , oppose cultural exchange between Israelis and Palestinians , and fight against co - operation between israeli and palestinian university . BDS have specifically denounce an organisation call OneVoice , which be a joint palestinian - israeli youth organisation that campaign to end the occupation , campaign against settlement and campaign for the establishment of a palestinian state . because OneVoice do not use the rhetoric of apartheid that BDS deploy , and because it do believe that there should be a jewish state , it be denounce by the BDS movement . rise — I will make more progress and then give way . where the BDS campaign have be adopt and endorse there have , unfortunately , be real community - cohesion problem . we have see an increase in antisemitic event follow on from the activity of the BDS movement , include supermarket remove kosher product from their shelf follow specific protest . the Community Security Trust have recently record the high ever number of antisemitic incident . in evidence adduce before the Supreme Court in 2020 , the following point be make . the evidence say that " although anti - Israel and pro - palestinian campaigning in itself be " , obviously , " not anti - semitic , there be a pattern of anti - semitic behaviour in connection with campaign promote a boycott of Israel . for example , protest outside an Israeli - own shop in central Manchester in summer 2014 lead to some jewish people use the shop be racially abuse by protestor , include shopper " — I hope the House will forgive I — " be call ' child killer ' , comment such as ' you Jews be scum and the whole world hate you ' , and Nazi salute be make at jewish shopper use the Israeli - own store . on social medium , hashtag such as # BDS , # BoycottIsrael and # FreePalestine be regularly use by people post anti - semitic tweet and comment . " that be why Labour Friends of Israel have rightly state : " BDS damage communal relation and foster antisemitism at home , while do nothing to further the cause of peace and reconciliation between Israelis and Palestinians . public body should not be single out the world ' s only jewish state for boycotts . " Luke Akehurst , a Labour NEC member speak in a personal capacity , have also argue that we should " welcome the Government ' s propose bill to end the ability of public sector body to carry out boycott and divestment . " Mr Akehurst add that he be against BDS more widely " because it deepen the division in the Middle East conflict rather than encourage dialogue and coexistence between Israelis and Palestinians . BDS demonise and delegitimise Israel " . I agree with Labour Friends of Israel , I agree with Luke Akehurst , I agree with the Board of Deputies , and I agree with the jewish Leadership Council , all of whom back this Bill . I agree with the french and german government who have take action against the BDS movement , and I agree with all 50 Governors of US state — Democrat and Republican — who have denounce the BDS movement . the question for every Member of this House be whether they stand with we against antisemitism or not . I thank my right hon . friend for give way . although I disagree fundamentally with the point that he have just try to make , my question to he be this : have a single diplomatic post specifically advise that the Bill contravene our UN Security Council requirement and resolution ? I be sorry , but I miss the point — forgive I . have any diplomatic post specifically advise the Government that what be be propose this evening in the Bill contravene our UN Security Council resolution ? I know of no such advice . this ill - draft Bill have multiple contradiction , as excellent legal advice have highlight , and it may actually contravene international law . although the Secretary of State may be happy that he will have these additional power , the Bill will no doubt be subject to multiple legal challenge , and therefore a lot of taxpayer ' money will once again be waste by the Government . do he concede that well beyond BDS and the middle east , the Bill may hamper the UK ' s ability to protect and preserve human right across the world ? no , I absolutely do not . the Bill enhance the UK Government ' s ability to protect human right across the globe . on the point that the hon . Gentleman make about legal challenge , it be the case that organisation such as the Palestine Solidarity Campaign and other have challenge the Government in this area in the past . they may do so again , but I be confident that the Bill be legally watertight . on the point — will the Secretary of State give way ? no , I be answer the hon . Gentleman ' s question first . on the point about the legal advice from Mr Hermer KC , as I have say , we believe that that legal advice be flawed and it come from someone who have a clear political record of partiality on this question . I thank the Secretary of State for give way . I hope he will recognise that many of we in this House have stand up to the BDS movement . therefore , his rather intemperate suggestion that only if we support this legislation be we against antisemitism do not pass muster . do he recognise that those of we who would like to see local authority challenge — perhaps through the Equality Act 2010 — can find troublesome element in this Bill ? it be almost as if his myopia about the BDS movement have blind he to the consequence of this and what it could do . the Secretary of State boast early that there be exemption around labour right and environmental law , but be it not ironic that the Bill do not include an exemption around genocide ? those of we who have community that be desperately concerned about the Uyghurs , the Rohingyas or what happen in Sri Lanka recognise that this legislation could stop our speak out for they . will he work with we — those of we who want to tackle antisemitism and to stand up for human right — and rethink his proposal ? I have a lot of respect for the hon . Lady and I acknowledge her work to fight antisemitism and stand against the BDS movement — more than acknowledge it , I applaud she for it . I would say three thing . first , there be absolutely nothing in the Bill that prevent the UK Government or other public body from take appropriate action against Myanmar , against China over the treatment of the Uyghurs or against Russia and Belarus over their aggression towards Ukraine . I have see no solid legal advice to suggest that be the case at all . secondly , if the hon . Lady or anybody else want to table amendment in Committee that can improve the Bill , I be completely open to they . I have not yet see any such amendment , but I know she and other in this House be skilled in draft legislation , and I look forward to see the appropriate amendment . however , as we have see in the past , attempt to deal with the specific menace that the BDS campaign create through guidance have not be sufficient . primary legislation be require . the shape of that legislation I hope we can decide together across the House . the Secretary of State mention that it be the UK ' s long - stand policy to support a two - state solution . it be also the UK ' s long - stand policy to differentiate between Israel and the occupy territory . the UK endorse United Nations resolution 2334 . why be there no differentiation in the Bill between Israel and the occupy territory ? do that not increase the risk of antisemitism ? no ; they be separate in the Bill . I be afraid the hon . Lady be wrong . my right hon . friend be be very generous in listen to the rather strong opinion on the Bill , but can I press he again to consider alternative way to deal with the threat of BDS without offer the glass jaw that I see clause 3 ( 7 ) as present to parliamentarian , and to work with I and other to find a well way to do this ? I will also say that ad hominem attack on independent counsel , whoever they be , be not advisable and not wise . I be grateful to my right hon . and learn Friend . of course we be completely open to the consideration of any amendment that can give well effect to the share intention that we have across the House to deal with this movement . however , Israel be there in the Bill because of the clear nature and the clear and present activity of the BDS campaign . be there to be an alternative , one would have to make sure that it deal effectively with that area . like my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) , I thank my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for the generosity he be show in give way . I support what he say about the importance of set a clear marker on the menace of the BDS movement and its impact across community . do he agree that the Bill potentially go far , in a positive way , by make the point that it be for local government to spend taxpayer ' money on service and other issue for their constituent in the well available way , not use it — or abuse it — on ideological issue , and that , whether in expenditure for the local community or through local government pension scheme investment , it should be aim at get the good return for constituent and beneficiary , not at drive ideological wedge between community ? I think my right hon . friend be completely right . local government have a critical role in deliver public service , include support for the most vulnerable in our community . it be vital that central government support it in that endeavour and that local government should not be divert from its core purpose by other temptation . the Secretary of State say early that the Bill fulfil a manifesto commitment , but the manifesto commitment be not country - specific ; it be country - agnostic . there be no mention of Israel or BDS in it . indeed , another manifesto commitment be that we would champion freedom of expression and tolerance . he will recall that a former Secretary of State for Education write to all our university to ensure that they allow freedom of expression . how be that compatible with clause 4 ( 1 ) ( b ) , which state that any person who " would intend to act in such a way " — of have a boycott on any part of a foreign country — " be it lawful to do so " , would be prohibit from do so and would be penalise by the court for do so ? how do that represent champion freedom of expression and tolerance ? I should say to my hon . friend , whose commitment to advance peace and to freedom of speech I respect , that all the Bill seek to do be to ensure that boycotts and boycott in name only can not be bring forward . it have absolutely no effect — chill or otherwise — on the exercise of freedom of speech . I agree with the Secretary of State that there be a particular problem to do with Israel and BDS , but the Bill be not country - specific . nor be it specific on whether it apply to investment or disinvestment . of all the Bills I have ever read , it be particularly woolly in its drafting . will the Secretary of State respond to a few scenario ? we find out that a number of local authority in this country be twin with chinese town . if they choose to un - twin with those chinese town , will they fall foul of the Bill ? they be invest in twinning office and travel expense . if they be instead to set up a twin agreement with a taiwanese town , for example , or to set up a Hong Kong freedom centre , would they fall foul of the legislation ? indeed , under clause 1 ( 2 ) , on decision " influence by political or moral disapproval of foreign state conduct " , would fly a ukrainian flag over a town hall fall foul of the Bill as well ? I can not see that any of those action would fall foul of the legislation in any way . it be clearly the case that , in each of the area that my hon . friend mention , particularly with respect to China , the Government be take appropriate action to demonstrate our consistent disapproval of China ' s behaviour , not just in Xinjiang but specifically , as he rightly mention , in Hong Kong . will my right hon . friend give way on that point ? not at the moment . it be important , follow on from the point make by my hon . friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) , to make clear that there be no evidence that anything in the Bill will impede our ability or that of local government to act against modern slavery in Xinjiang or environmental misconduct in Myanmar , or to maintain a united front against russian aggression . nor be there anything in the Bill to prevent any individual , include councillor , from articulate in their own right any opinion that they personally hold . it be also important to make clear that nothing in the Bill change in any way UK Government foreign policy or our position on the middle east peace process . nothing in it alter our support for an adherence to UN resolution , and nothing in it explicitly or implicitly support current israeli Government policy towards settlement in the west bank . by virtue of my right hon . friend ' s capacious mind , he have have the UK ' s foreign policy delegate to his Department as well . he say in answer to the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) — indeed , he just reiterate the point — that nothing in the Bill will endanger our international obligation . presumably , with that capacious mind , he have read the write - round from the Foreign Office , which say directly that fcdo lawyer advise that the clause on Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories would significantly increase the risk of the UK be in breach of our commitment under UN Security Council resolution 2334 . have he have a word with our right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary about that ? yes . across Government , every Minister support the Bill , and quite rightly , because it give effect to our manifesto commitment and ensure that we live up to the responsibility that we have to deal with divisive campaign that operate on the ground in a way that adversely affect minority community and , most especially , the jewish community . rise — I be come to the end of my remark . I recognise that many people have , in good faith , express concern about aspect of the Bill , but I point out that the provision be specifically design to provide a high bar to ensure that local government act as it should in accordance with the interest of its citizen , to ensure that UK foreign policy be articulate with one voice , and to ensure in particular that a campaign that those on both Front Benches be clear have be responsible for the demonisation of the state of Israel , for the delegitimsation of its right to exist and for discrimination against jewish people in this country , be , at last , deal with . for those reason , I commend the Bill to the House . as I say early , the amendment in the name of the Leader of the opposition have be select . I call Lisa Nandy to move that amendment . I beg to move an amendment , to leave out from " that " to the end of the question and add : " this House , while oppose any discrimination or prejudice in the economic activity of public body , believe that all such body must act without bias or selectivity when make ethical decision on procurement and investment and recognise the impact selective and biased campaign have have on the jewish community in particular , decline to give a second reading to the Economic Activity of Public Bodies ( Overseas Matters ) Bill , because the Bill risk significantly undermine support for group around the world face persecution , for example the Uyghur , who be currently victim of grave and systemic human right abuse , be incompatible with international law and the due diligence of public body , undermine the UK ' s long - stand cross - party position in respect of the occupy Palestinian Territories and Golan Heights by conflate these with the State of Israel and run counter to UN Security Council Resolutions , single out the State of Israel in effect create the issue it intend to solve , seek to enforce its provision by give unprecedented power to the Secretary of State beyond those enjoy by the police and the security service , place unprecedented restriction on the ability of public body , many of they directly elect , to express a view on policy , current , propose and desire , have potential widespread and negative impact on local government pension fund , limit freedom of speech and be likely to be subject to repeat and extend legal challenge by reason of its conflict with established legal principle ; and therefore urge the Government to bring forward alternative proposal . " I recognise the Secretary of State ' s very touching word on Lord Kerslake . he be Lord Kerslake to some , but Bob to those of we who have benefit over many year from his ceaseless encouragement and advice . his knowledge of central Government and local government be unparalleled . his commitment as a genuine public servant who care deeply about people will be badly miss . he be take from we too soon , and I would like to add our voice to the very touching tribute from the Secretary of State . it be perhaps in the spirit that Bob would have want that I approach the Bill — on a note of consensus , on something that ought to be a matter of consensus for Labour Members . I recognise that there be deeply hold feeling about these issue , and I want to acknowledge that member in this debate must be hear . I shall , of course , welcome intervention , but I will seek to balance that with the need of member on both side of the House , whether I disagree with they or not , to make their view know . I want to begin by say to the Secretary of State that we recognise the problem which he say the Bill be design to tackle . it be therefore deeply frustrating that the Government have introduce a Bill that be needlessly broad , with sweeping , draconian power and far - reach effect . instead of member on both side of the House have the opportunity to come together and welcome long - overdue action , he face genuine , legitimate , heartfelt opposition from Conservative Members ; from group who face persecution , such as the Uyghur , who think that we stand with they ; from human right group ; and from local government . I have watch the Secretary of State lose Government Members because of the tone that he have strike in the debate . I hope that as the debate progress he will listen to some of those concern . I say to the House that it do not have to be this way . it be not , in our view , wrong for public body to take ethical investment and procurement decision . in fact , there be a long history of council , university and other take a stance in defence of freedom and human right . in the case of elect council , their elector often expect they to do just that . there be a difference between legitimate criticism of a foreign state ' s Government and what some individual and organisation have try to do in recent year , which the Secretary of State outline well . to seek to target Israel alone , to hold it to different standard from other country , to question its right to exist , to equate the action of the israeli Government with jewish people , and in do so create hate and hostility against jewish people here in the UK be completely wrong . there be at least one example of a publicly fund body that have take a stance against the state of Israel that have effectively cancel jewish culture here in the UK . we will always stand against that . Most public body would not dream of behave like that , but even one incident have unacceptable and far - reach consequence for the jewish community , increase hate and hostility at a time when antisemitic attack have reach a peak , child learn behind gate , and security guard stand outside synagogue . the hon . Lady be speak really well , and she give a remarkable second read speech on the Holocaust Memorial Bill . the hon . Lady be try to suggest that example of BDS be few and far between , and that it be a legitimate field of activity for public body to comment on foreign policy and express ethical concern . the trouble be , time and time again , it be about BDS and it be about target Israel . when the Welsh Government issue a procurement advice note two year ago , they be try to single out Israel yet again , and no Labour MP say a thing about it . be that not the problem ? I can assure the right hon . Gentleman that I feel strongly that BDS offer no meaningful route to peace either for the Palestinians or for the Israelis . I can assure he that when BDS be use as an argument for the total economic , social and cultural isolation of the world ' s only jewish state , not only will I speak out but I have speak out time and time again . as far as I know , I be the only member in the House — there may be other , and I apologise in advance if I have miss anyone — who have go directly to take on those who argue for a boycott , divestment and sanction against the state of Israel and for a one - state solution . I have take on that argument , because I firmly believe that it be wrong and unhelpful . as I have just make clear to the House , this might not be every public body — I do not believe for a moment that it be — but one incident be too many . it have profound effect on the jewish community . that be why so many people in the jewish community have fight long and hard for action to tackle this problem , and it be why we support they . in fact , we be sufficiently concerned about it that early this year we try to amend the Procurement Bill to ensure that when council take ethical decision , they do so in line with an ethical framework and Government guidance and apply those decision across the board , not seek to single out any one country for differential treatment . we believe that that amendment offer clarity and certainty to our elect official and council , and security for the jewish community , and we be disappoint that the Government vote it down . however , we continue to believe that there be not — and never should be — disagreement between we on that principle . I also do not believe there be disagreement between we on whether we oppose the policy of boycott , divestment and sanction against Israel . oppose that policy be a long - stand Labour position , and it will not change . as I say to the right hon . member for Preseli Pembrokeshire ( Stephen Crabb ) a moment ago , it be something I feel so strongly about that I have take the opportunity to debate with those who expound that policy and who believe in a one - state solution , which we thoroughly oppose . I have make the case that talk of a one - state solution and boycott , divestment and sanction against Israel offer no meaningful route to peace for Palestinians or Israelis . over the past decade , the one bright spot on a very difficult horizon that I have see on my trip to the middle east have be the co - existence and joint venture project that have flourish , through which BDS drive a coach and horse . we on the Labour Benches do not claim that all those who support BDS , despite our profound disagreement with they on that issue , be antisemitic . our concern be with those who have try to whip up hostility towards jewish people under the cover of either BDS or the targeting of Israel , particularly those who seek the total economic , social and cultural isolation of the world ' s only jewish state . that be what we must deal with , in a way that be enforceable — that have real impact and real tooth — and that tackle the problem it be design to solve . do my hon . friend agree that we have work hard to ensure that we be not antisemitic , and that for the Minister to display what he have do in the Chamber do no good to our democracy ? this be a very badly write Bill — it be not a good Bill — and the Minister ' s suggestion that anyone who vote against it be antisemitic be just a disgrace and something he should withdraw . this be a debate that need far less heat and far more light , because we be talk about real people — about community in the UK who be among the most marginalised and discriminate against in our country . I thank the Secretary of State for acknowledge in his opening remark that Labour Front Benchers be act in good faith in the approach we have take , but I would echo a note of caution : we should not in any sense suggest that Members , of all party in this House , who have express profound reservation about the Bill in front of we can be deem to be antisemitic . they be not . they be participate in democracy and give voice to real concern . they be do what we be send to this House to do : scrutinise legislation and ensure that it have the intend impact . I encourage member to continue to do so , because a Bill that be design to promote and protect community cohesion can proceed only with the broad possible consent . I thank the hon . Lady for what she have just say , because I also find the Secretary of State ' s suggestion that those of we who oppose the Bill be condone antisemitism , or be in fact antisemitic , to be disgraceful . have she , like I , see a public letter to the Secretary of State from a number of British - base jewish academic expert in the field of jewish study , the study of antisemitism and Israel study , include my dear friend Professor Francesca Klug OBE , visit professor of human right at the London School of Economics ? they have express the view that this legislation be damaging and wrong - headed and should be withdraw . will the hon . Lady confirm that that be a letter from lead british jewish academic ? I be grateful to the hon . and learn Lady for raise those concern . we be keen that all the voice in this debate ought to be hear ; I have hear different view from across the jewish community , but I have to say to she that the overwhelming view I have hear be that there be a desperate need to tackle this very real problem . the strength of feeling in the jewish community that we must legislate to tackle this problem be overwhelming . I do not want for one moment to deny that that be what I have hear in my frequent conversation with the jewish community , but as I will outline , there be serious problem with the Bill that need to be address . I be grateful for the hon . Lady for give way , and for the tone she have strike . as someone who have a significant proportion of jewish constituent , I speak in defence of they . the BDS movement and its increase presence on university campus have see the Community Security Trust state that there have be a 22 % increase in campus antisemitism . we be now in a situation where many of my constituent will not go to university because they face such hostility , so the enthusiasm for the Bill may not be about its drafting , but about the aim that it seek to achieve . that be absolutely right . in fact , the Union of jewish Students , which have express real concern about the Bill — the very student who have often be the target of the appalling abuse and attack that the hon . Gentleman have outline — be clear that it want to see this problem tackle . I hope that be a basis on which we can proceed across the House in a debate that , as I have say , need far more light and far less heat . I remain confident that , with good faith and good will on everyone ' s part , we can find a way to tackle what be a very real problem for the jewish community in this country . I will take a moment to explain why the Bill do not do what the Government intend it to do . clause 1 attempt to ban public body from take decision influence by " political or moral disapproval of foreign state conduct . " we have commission legal advice that suggest there be two reading of the clause . I would just say to some conservative Members that a King ' s counsel — a distinguished king ' s counsel who happen to disagree about the legal impact of this legislation — deserve a hearing and deserve respect . if in a democracy those who disagree with we be accuse of act dishonestly or in bad faith , we be in a very dark place indeed . that legal advice suggest that on first read the clause apply only when it relate to specific territory . that would create the absurd situation where public body could refuse good from China because of general disregard for human right , but could not refuse cotton good from Xinjiang because of concern about genocide against the uyghur population . the second reading of the clause , which I imagine be what the Government intend , be that public body be ban from have any regard at all to human right violation of foreign government unless they be expressly permit by this Government . there be a few exception in the schedule refer to in clause 3 — labour right , bribery and the environment — but not genocide , as my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) have say , or systematic torture or grave breach of the Geneva convention . after the horror of the second world war , it be british diplomat who hold the pen , craft the international legal system that recognise that some crime be so grave that they should never be acceptable . what have change that give the Government ground to create two tier through this Bill — to deem slavery unacceptable , but remain silent on the issue of genocide ? have we give up believe that these thing matter ? my hon . friend be make a powerful speech . do she share my concern that the Bill will weaken our voice on the international stage in tackle human right abuse ? it will enable many regime with appal human right record , or company that have track record of labour law violation or environmental recklessness , to continue without consequence , include where those abuse be incompatible with international law . I thank my hon . friend for raise that concern , which have also be raise with I . I defer to the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , the hon . member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) , who I know will make a contribution in due course . what be not clear to I and other Labour Members be why the Government have seek to draw this Bill ' s power so broadly . it be not just breathtake in its reach ; it be deeply contradictory , because the Bill itself accept that there will be time when public body will take a view about the conduct of foreign government on specific ground , such as modern slavery . in fact , the Secretary of State write to council last year urge they to do so in the case of Russia , and have since signal his intent to add Russia and Belarus to the list of exception allow by clause 3 . only two year ago in this House , I sit on these bench as we proudly and rightly pass the Magnitsky regulation , which recognise the power of economic sanction to direct state conduct and raise global standard . however , the Secretary of State be now propose a Bill that will prevent — for example — the Department for Business and Trade from take human right violation into account when decide whether to grant export credit guarantee . surely he can see the problem . the Cameron Government become a signatory to the UN guide principle on business and human right a decade ago . the Government ' s own action plan make it clear that business have a corporate responsibility to uphold human right and to monitor those they deal with commercially . after year of promise to hand over power and spending decision to Mayors , combined authority and council , be the Secretary of State seriously say that they be not capable of exercise the same duty ? there be other area of deep confusion in this Bill that we believe will open up the prospect of ongoing legal challenge , and I know that have be raise by Conservative Members . clause 1 ban action that a reasonable observer would conclude be motivate by moral or political disapproval of a foreign government , but on these deeply contest notion what constitute a " reasonable observer " ? clause 4 be even more problematic . it prohibit public body from express a view not just about how they intend to act , but how they would have do so have the law not be in force . it be difficult to know how public body , particularly those that be elect , should respond to this . in recent year , many council have , for example , be ask by their own resident not to use chinese company with link to Xinjiang . my own council be one of they . under this Bill , face with thousand of people sign a public petition , a council would not even be able to give any indication of whether or not it agree with its own resident . our legal advice suggest that this extraordinary situation be likely to be incompatible with article 10 of the european convention on human right . clause 3 ( 7 ) create even more confusion . it single out Israel , the Occupied Palestinian Territories and the Golan height as place for which no exemption can ever be make . the long - stand position of the UK Government be to support a two - state solution along pre - 1967 line that protect and respect the security and right to self - determination of the israeli and palestinian people . this clause drive a coach and horse through that , accord the occupy territory the same protect status as Israel and in effect conflate the two . it contradict establish Government policy , and I find it hard to believe that the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office have agree to this . I note the question from two conservative Members , and I be deeply concerned that it appear that the Government and the Secretary of State have not even ask that question . it appear that Conservative Members have see a circular from Foreign Office official raise objection to this Bill , yet the Secretary of State have not . I urge he to look closely at that matter before the Bill proceed . the hon . Lady talk about when she have visit Israel or Palestine , as I have do regularly with the breast cancer project I be involve with in Gaza and the west bank . the thing be that the settlement be illegal under international law , and they have be condemn by the Government in the past . obviously , company , pension fund , council and devolve government who try to act ethically and do not wish to purchase settlement good , which be illegal , would be floor by that clause . how do that match with current UK policy ? I hope , as the debate go on , that there may be an answer to this , but I have to confess that so far I be at a loss as to what it might be . where do this leave our commitment to international law , give that it cut across UN resolution , as Conservative Members have highlight , and weaken Britain ' s state support for a two - state solution , as the hon . Member have say ? the legal advice we have receive strongly suggest that this be likely to be in breach of our international law obligation . furthermore , it will force the UK court , which have traditionally be reluctant to adjudicate on issue relate to the Occupied Palestinian Territories , to take a view . all of these confusing and contradictory measure raise the very real prospect of protract legal challenge . one of the Conservative Members recently call this woolly . surely the Secretary of State can see that protract legal challenge over the occupy Palestinian Territories and the practice of boycott , divestment and sanction would not be in the interest of community cohesion , which be the very thing this Bill be design to protect . will my hon . friend give way ? I will not give way , if my hon . friend will forgive I . a lot of people be wish to speak , and give that she have make one intervention , I will make a bit of progress . as if that be not bad enough , it seem that nobody in Government have think of the consequence for local government pension fund , which be arguably the one area where council have to have a global outlook . let I give the Secretary of State a practical example . in recent month , as he will know , three israeli company have move their money outside Israel due to concern about the financial risk create by the contentious reform to the judiciary . if a local government pension fund be to do the same , this Bill would open it up to legal challenge , force it to prove to a reasonable observer , whatever that be , that its decision be on financial , not moral ground . write in the Local Government Chronicle , the director of pension at Westminster Council ask what happen " where an analyst have anticipate that a company ' s value will decrease because of ESG decision it have make … if that strategy fall within the new law ' s definition of not be in line with UK foreign defence policy , and the law therefore state that the fund must remain invest , and the fund therefore lose value , who will pay for that ? . . . the government ' s current message be that ' this be not design to get in the way of ESG factor , except the very narrow area of UK foreign or defence policy ' . but this be absolutely not a very narrow area . " he add : " we could end up in a scenario with never end argument involve ESG factor versus foreign and defence policy . " surely that can not be the intention of this Government . I think I agree with everything my hon . friend have say this afternoon . she will remember , as I do , how many of we on the Opposition Benches , and indeed in all of the House , spend year of our life campaign against the apartheid regime . that be a very strong policy within local authority and it have real impact at the time , so much so that when Nelson Mandela come to this country to thank people , he include they in those thank . do she believe that , have this legislation be enact at the time , it would have prevent those authority from take the action they do to oppose apartheid ? South Africa be obviously a different case , but the point my hon . friend make remain and be well found , because this Bill concentrate the decision making and judgment of hundred of public body in the hand of just one person . the hon . Lady talk about pension , and there be an additional point . whatever people may think of BDS or of an investment strategy that be ethical or otherwise , the money that sit in the local government pension scheme — and I be a member of the local government pension scheme — be the member ' money , my money . it be not the Government ' s money to direct in one way or another ; it belong to the pension holder , and it be surely for they and those to whom they delegate its management to decide how it should be deploy . as she rightly say , if the Government be get into the business of manage my pension money and I lose money because of decision make by the Government , presumably I should be compensate . this be precisely the question that the Government have yet to answer , but we hope that will be forthcoming during this debate . I would add to what the right hon . Gentleman say that the local government pension service be already under a fiduciary duty to take prudent investment decision base on an assessment of the financial consequence of a number of matter , include environmental and social governance , and when it divest on the basis of non - financial factor , it should follow the Law Commission direction that any financial impact should not be significant and that the decision would likely be support by scheme member . I be not sure what happen when a local government pension fund be take decision that would not be support by scheme member . we be talk about the pension of 6 million people in this country , and I think these be important question that the Government must answer . I want to turn to one of our chief concern about this Bill , which be the concentration of the decision making and judgment of hundred of public body in the hand of just one person and the implication of that for some of the most persecuted people in the world . there will be significant effect on the Uyghur in Xinjiang , who be suffer such serious crime against humanity that the Biden Administration have recognise it as genocide . the Secretary of State will have read the impassioned letter from those group in the Times about the effect of this Bill . surely we can not abandon they to their fate . for the Rohingya in Myanmar , for the Tamils in Sri Lanka and for countless other , the concern be that this bad law prevent not just economic action to uphold human right everywhere , but solidarity with some of the most persecuted people in the world . as be say early , the Bill go far and clause 7 grant to the Secretary of State or other relevant body the power to issue notice require all information to be hand over , if they suspect that a prohibit statement express a moral or political view about foreign conduct be in the process of or about to be make , include information in subsection ( 8 ) that would normally be protect by legal privilege . let I clear about the effect of that : this hand over to the Office for Students , the Secretary of State , and the Treasury , great power than those available to the security service . I know there be member on both side of the House who be deeply trouble by that , and those who be not should consider for a moment how they might feel about this Bill if their party be not in power . we should not be here . we have long fight for legislation to tackle what be a real problem , and we be determined to give the Government the opportunity to do the right thing . that be why today we be propose an alternative that allow the Government and this House to keep our promise to tackle a long - stand issue of deep concern to the jewish community , but avoid tear up our commitment to human right , local democracy and free speech , in a Bill that do not even appear to tackle the very problem it seek to solve . the hon . Lady have make a number of powerful point . she will have hear I question the Secretary of State about the fact that the Bill be not country agnostic ; it be direct primarily at one country and one issue , which be BDS . the question for she be , in a way , the opposite of that , which be that this problem have come to be because of decision make by Leicester City Council and Lancaster City Council , which be labour - run council act arguably in cahoot with BDS . what do she think the Labour party can do to take away the perceive requirement to have a Bill that seem , at the moment , largely to argue against BDS ' s action against Israel ? I listen carefully to what the hon . Gentleman have to say and I support it , but he should please not try to tarnish Labour Members with a record on antisemitism . there be those of we who stand up not just to those who be suppose to be our opponent , but to those who be suppose to be our friend as well . and we will always do that . I give my word , and I give our word on behalf of the Labour party . as I be about to outline , we have provide the Government with an alternative . early this year we seek to amend the Procurement Bill to ensure that no single country , especially in the case that we have be describe and the world ' s only jewish state , can be single out for different standard from other , and in do so whip up hate and hostility against the jewish community . it be a real problem . we provide the Government with a solution . they refuse it , but we remain convinced that co - operation and consensus be the right approach to tackle what we accept be a very real problem . today , the Secretary of State will hear this refrain again and again from member on his own Back Benches , and across the House : two important principle — the need to tackle racism and antisemitism , which be a scourge on our society , and the need to stand up for human right , freedom of expression , democracy and our long - stand position on Israel and Palestine , and act in accordance with international law — and those thing should never be see as mutually exclusive or allow to be pit against one another . we have a number of serious suggestion about the way that this problem can be tackle . we have outline an alternative approach . we have provide the Secretary of State with a solution , and we urge he to take it . otherwise , he should know that Labour Members will be compel to vote against the Bill on Third Reading , as I suspect will significant number of his own colleague . it be an outcome we should all strive to avoid . if a pledge to tackle division , around which there be broad consensus , be derail by a combative approach and a Government who refuse to listen to the wide range of voice that have express their concern , that would be a cry shame . with good will and good faith on the part of the Government , we can proceed together . we have propose how . the ball be now in the court of the right hon . gentleman . this evening ' s debate should focus on the specific of the Bill in front of we . the right of Israel to exist and defend itself be not up for debate . the right of Palestine to exist and defend itself be also not up for debate . the UK support a two - state solution , and I believe that everyone in the Chamber would also be of that mind . I wish to draw the attention of hon . member to the implication of the current drafting of the Bill . it have implication on our historic commitment and responsibility and ability to play the role of honest arbiter within the region , and risk undermine our commitment as a United Nations Security Council member . my concern about the Bill fall within four area : first , foreign policy implication ; secondly , exceptionalism in legislation ; thirdly , protection of freedom of speech ; and finally , the legality of what we be be ask to support . let I begin with the implication of the Bill on foreign policy and international obligation . my first concern , as be raise in early intervention , be the conflation of Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories . conflate East Jerusalem , the west bank and the Golan Heights break with our position , because the UK recognise the Golan Heights as annex and the west bank and East Jerusalem as occupy Palestinian Territories . that be a departure from our foreign policy . not only do the Bill break with our foreign policy , but clause 3 ( 7 ) put the UK in breach of our commitment under UN Security Council resolution 2334 ( 2016 ) . that be not just an international commitment ; it be one that we draft back in 2016 . it state that in their " relevant dealing " , state must distinguish " between the territory of the State of Israel and the territory occupy since 1967 . " the Bill do not distinguish between our treatment of Israel and the opt . why do breach UNSCR 2334 matter ? because we rely on the rule base system to protect ourselves and to protect our ally . how many of we have talk about the rule of law in this Chamber , when it come to Ukraine and Russia , Serbia , the Balkans , and so many other part of this world ? the impact of the Bill would be significant . it will undermine our position as a respectable and reliable multilateral partner , commit to uphold UN Security Council resolution as we should as a permanent member . it risk our lose the support of arab state on share issue , and their vote at the UN . we all know that western state be spend a significant amount of time try to shore up the support of so - call non - align country . I have spend most of the last few day on the phone to arab ambassador — the same arab ambassador who recognise Israel and want to normalise relation with Israel . finally , we risk give China , Iran , Russia , Serbia and other an easy propaganda win , because they will use this against we when we talk about the annexation of territory around the world . I be concerned that the UN Special Coordinator would have no choice but to explicitly name the UK in their next report on how member state be adhere to compliance with UNSCR 2334 . I also worry that it send the wrong message about the achievement of sovereignty through violence . it mean that if Israel breach international law in the occupy territory , public body can not express their ethical objection to those crime . I worry that the Bill will leave the international community question whether israeli settlement in the opt and the Golan Heights be still regard as illegal by the UK Government . the hon . Lady have give a very good list of people that the Bill could undermine . do she also recognise that it undermine many people in Israel who oppose the occupation in the occupy territory , and it would make their life hard when make the case in Israel in a democratic sense ? I have receive significant representation from human right organisation within Israel , and also from within our jewish community in the UK , who feel that this be not only the worst possible timing for the Bill , but that they themselves do not support it . if we be now to have question our position on the opt legally , how be the Bill compatible with that , and with the fact that the Conservative Government recognise that settlement build on occupy palestinian land since 1967 be illegal ? we must ensure that all legislation make a clear distinction between Israel where we support no boycott , and the illegal settlement on occupy land where a boycott would be consistent with our position on UNSCR 2334 . why be we undermine our international position by breach our position on a two - state solution , and change the UK ' s recognition of certain territory as occupy , when the Bill can achieve the same end simply by remove clause 3 ( 7 ) ? the House will hear that point reiterate throughout the evening by many of my colleague . I be also concerned that the Secretary of State appear not to be aware of the concern emanate from the Foreign Office and from diplomatic post . I ask he to clarify that when wind up this evening . I think the wording be that " no such advice have be receive " . have the Foreign Office truly not give any advice that it have concern that the Bill breach our UN Security Council resolution ? do the UK presently have any policy against good come in from the settlement ? I be not aware whether we do , but that would be legitimate within the current UN Security Council restriction so I would not necessarily oppose it . what I be say be that we would not necessarily support Israel be boycott , but we would support a boycott of product from the occupy territory , because we consider they to be illegal or annexed . be it not an issue to use the term " boycott " with regard to the settlement ? they be illegal under international law , so no public body should be invest in , or make profit from , they . inherently , the hon . Lady make a valid point , although it be potentially a different discussion . there be a fundamental question around whether we should be boycott or bring in good . as the House know , I have be vocal in ensure that good come from genocide be not import from across China . we must have a standard response across all country . to sum up , my concern be that legislation by the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities must not depart from our foreign policy , let alone undermine it or leave we ostracise internationally . my second concern be the legislative implication from the exceptionalism propose in the Bill . since my election , the Government have be at great pain to make the point to I that all legislation should be agnostic . I must admit that I rail against that when first elect , and the House may have see I table amendment with the word " China " and " Xinjiang " on repeat — ad nauseam , some might say . however , the Government be correct , and I have come to appreciate and recognise that position . to demonstrate that point , let I draw on the Procurement Bill , which this Bill interact with on exception , pension scheme and the UK security service . all the amendment that I table to the Procurement Bill — I be grateful to the Government for have accept they — be country - agnostic , because the Government make the point that that be how we legislate , except for such thing as trade Bills . we should be agnostic in all we do , but bad than be non - agnostic , the Bill give exceptional impunity to Israel . we should not give that to any country , and I would be stand here make the same request be any country name . to act in this way now send a clear message to all member of Parliament : " from now on , it be game on . if you want to put China , Xinjiang or any other country into primary legislation , crack on . " the Chief Whip will not be able to tell member they can not do it anymore , and Government Ministers will not be able to argue against it any more , because we have do it and break that practice in this Bill . the Government will regret make this precedent . the reality be that we can achieve the same outcome without put geographic reference into primary legislation . on the implication for freedom of speech — I thank my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) for have make I aware of how acute these be — the Bill have unjustifiable clause . clause 4 ( 1 ) state that if a local council leader , university vice - chancellor or even the chief executive of a private company deliver public service speak in a way that contravene clause 1 , they have break the law . to make the implication clear , the Bill state that just someone express in print that they would like , as an elect official , to boycott product from Xinjiang , China or any illegal settlement but can not , because the law do not allow they to do so , constitute an offence punishable by an as yet unlimited fine from the Secretary of State . that be completely inappropriate . the hon . Lady be make a wonderful speech and I agree with everything she have say . on that last point , do she agree that the Bill be likely to disproportionately interfere with freedom of expression and the conscience of individual , in such a way that do not sit with our obligation under article 9 and 10 of the echr ? I entirely agree with the hon . and learn Lady , because this legislation do breach article 10 right to freedom of speech , as it fail to distinguish between a person and an authority , so individual risk be liable . if the legislation make clear that it be about public authority , we would not have those concern , but the lack of that clarity make individual liable to be fine , and therefore it breach article 10 of the echr . give that the Government have just rightly pass the Higher Education ( Freedom of Speech ) Act 2023 , which I fundamentally and entirely support , to now stop elect individual from express moral disapproval or even to consider or vocalise ethical investment decision be wrong . my final concern be the legality of what we be be ask to support . I question whether this Bill will be legally sound once test , and I have every reason to think it will not be , because it have previously fail in the High Court . when the measure fail again in the High Court , we will then see a judgment on the UK ' s treatment of the occupy Palestinian Territories , which I fear I would not be proud to stand behind . similar legislation have fail , and legal concern rest around , for example , the term " political or moral disapproval " , which be not define in the Bill and breach our commitment to make human right fundamental in our decision making . our obligation under the UN guide principle on business and human right essentially mean that this legislation would see the private sector have great adherence to our human right than the public sector . I encourage the Secretary of State to consider potential conflict between the UK Government and the UN state that settlement be illegal while then penalise local council in the UK for take ethical procurement decision to address that illegality . there be significant unhappiness among colleague in the House and in our party . to enable my right hon . friend the Secretary of State to still deliver on our manifesto commitment , I urge he to please remove clause 3 ( 7 ) , which be unnecessary to deliver on our commitment . we can still do this , with just a small compromise from those on the Front Bench . the Government can still introduce Israel ' s exception through secondary legislation , which would mean that we would treat Israel as equal to every other state . it would prevent we from breach our UN Security Council resolution and from be drag through the court . it would maintain our country - agnostic legislative approach , and it would prevent we from undermine our standing internationally . while we be on the subject , I have never feel that we be so close to conflict , particularly follow this morning ' s news . there be the chance that we might be see a third intifada and the Gaza crisis of 2023 , and we need to demonstrate meaningful resolve from King Charles Street in end the conflict and de - escalating . I therefore urge the Prime Minister to appoint a middle east peace envoy , because we do not have any envoy for the middle east , let alone one focus exclusively on the middle east peace process . we should be worried , because what happen in Palestine and Israel impact around the world . I stress that this low - commitment ask would allow we to live up to our responsibility and demonstrate meaningful resolve . with that , I join with other respected friend of Israel in urge the Government to think again . it be a pleasure to follow the excellent speech of the hon . member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) . I also thank the hon . member for Wigan ( Lisa Nandy ) for suggest that tone in this debate be important . I see that the Secretary of State be leave at this moment in time , but I do not think anybody will miss the irony of his project himself as the sole moral arbiter for the whole United Kingdom . even worse , he seek to quell the just protest of honourable organisation and individual who be try to bring about decent change internationally . in Scotland , we have a proud history of promote social justice , human right and respect for international law on the world stage . as the hon . member for Brent North ( Barry Gardiner ) allude to in his intervention , Scotland can provide a very good example . in 1981 , the then Glasgow District Council decide to award Nelson Mandela the freedom of the city — the first city in the world to do so . five year later , St George ' s Place in Glasgow city centre be rename Nelson Mandela Place . why be that ? it be because the south african consulate be in St George ' s Place , and the council want to make sure that everybody know who Nelson Mandela be by make sure his name be on the address of the south african consulate . when Nelson Mandela address Glasgow City Chambers in 1993 , he say : " while we be physically deny our freedom in the country of our birth , a city , 6 , 000 mile away , and as renowned as Glasgow , refuse to accept the legitimacy of the apartheid system , and declare we to be free . " have this propose legislation be in place during the 1980 , Glasgow would have likely be legally debar from take the action that it do , or even from suggest that it might take those action , because the then Conservative Government do not support sanction for South Africa . I remember as a young lad see country after country boycott the Commonwealth game in Edinburgh in 1986 as a result of the then UK Government ' s action . SNP Members will be support Labour ' s reason amendment . however , it be miss one key part : the attack on the devolved administration . perversely , the democratically elect Parliament and Government of Scotland will be require under the Bill to give legislative assent to its enactment . we will be ask to provide the gag that silence our freedom of expression and that of the people we represent . as a good global citizen , Scotland be commit to the high ethical and moral standard in human right , climate justice , worker ' right and economic development . the Scottish Government will always fulfil their obligation under international law and agreement . the people of Scotland rightly expect that action in Scotland should be take with full consideration of moral and ethical duty to community around the world , and we will not idly watch that good work be constrain . I entirely agree with my hon . friend ' s point . the Welsh Labour Government have policy on such matter as modern slavery and human right . public sector investment and procurement be devolve , yet the Bill ' s impact assessment do not consider any specific Welch approach . do he agree that the Government should do that before take any further step ? indeed . there be probably no discussion with the devolved administration on the Bill and the impact that it will have on the devolved institution , so I agree with my hon . friend . the UK Government claim that the Scottish Government pursue action that undermine UK foreign policy , but that be simply not the case — it be not true . for many year , the Scottish Government have conduct international engagement which benefit the people of Scotland and align with present constitutional arrangement . scottish Government Ministers be simply embody the value - base principle of the scottish electorate , as the Welsh would do with the Welsh electorate . I listen to the Secretary of State argue for the Bill , which give an impression of what the death rattle of a die Government sound like . the Bill represent a desperate attempt by the UK Government to salvage something from the wreckage they have create across the field of international trade , diplomatic relation and human right . let we look at those field in turn . do not the gagging clause in the Bill , which will stifle debate and discussion about policy , fit with what we have see in the last year or so with the Public Order Act 2023 : the seizing by the Executive of almost every power to hold the Government to account , whether from the judiciary , voter , protester or even mps , through post - Brexit legislation ? let I add trade union and worker who decide to take strike action . yes , we know who the Government ' s enemy be because they have be legislate against they in the last year since they crash the economy . in Nottingham , we have significant number of people , include hongkonger and those from other part of the world , who have flee from many country perpetrate human right abuse . they rightly do not want their council or university to be complicit in human right abuse that their family and friend continue to experience . do the hon . Member agree that public body must have the right to take a principle stance against , for example , the persecution of the people of Hong Kong , the Uyghurs in Xinjiang or political dissident across China ? I do agree . I be go to quote an exchange between the hon . Lady and a Minister later in my remark , so she may want to intervene again . I have Uyghur Muslims as constituent . I know how serious the issue be . I have kurdish constituent who be very concerned about the oppression of kurdish people in Turkey and Syria , for example . I will always stand beside those people , but the Bill will prevent public body and institution from take such step . that be a real concern . the Government be leave themselves open to a new slogan : never mind the probity , feel the width . their ability to grow trade be now severely constrain , so they seem to be sell off their own principle to the high bidder . previous attempt to work with other in make the world a decent place be now to be put aside . rogue nation be to be tolerate for the sake of business and their transgression ignore . the Bill — the dog ' s breakfast that it be — leave they open to that charge . Amnesty International UK be right to say that the Bill will " make it almost impossible for public body to use their procurement and investment policy to incentivise ethical business conduct that be human right compliant . " however , perhaps the objective be not surprising . from the UK be an original drafter of the european convention on human right , I note that some on the Government Benches now wish the UK to leave that . we would have hope that the Conservative Government might have learn from their disastrous policy of give succour to the apartheid regime in South Africa . when the world rail against that regime , the then Conservative Government turn a blind eye , even though we already know the consequence of appeasement from early experience . we have learn in the last century what happen when government do not have a conscience and turn a blind eye to wrongdoing . we have learn that responsibility lie not just at a national level but at a local level — and , yes , even at the level of the individual . now we be inform that give expression to that conscience locally will be penalise under the law . it would appear that the only good conscience be a Tory conscience as express by a Government Minister at Westminster . I ask myself : why be the Government pursue this policy ? do every Government Member want to stifle local democracy ? every society have its share of people who be mainly self - interested , with little concern for those outside their own circle . it would be good to think that that proportion of society have shrink as we have become more aware of world affair . but it still seem to be far too substantial , suggest to niche voter that principle be costly to we and we can not now afford they . that be a dangerous game . it be much easy to break down society than to build it up ; to make people isolationist rather than internationalist . patch that fragmented society together again would be a monumental task . but there be good news : there be some part of the United Kingdom where that dystopian dream be not be pursue — quite the opposite , in fact . we have have helpful support in our position regard Israel , for example . on Thursday , at that very Dispatch Box , the International Trade Minister tell the House that the UK have a clear position on israeli settlement in the occupied palestinian Territories : " they be illegal under international law , present an obstacle to peace and … a two - state solution . " — [ Official Report , 29 June 2023 ; Vol . 735 , c . 408 . ] as set out in Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office guidance on overseas business risk , there be clear risk to UK business relate to economic and financial activity in the settlement and we do not encourage or offer support to such activity . so the Government ' s position seem to be , " Don ' t do it . we don ' t support it , but we ' re not go to allow people to boycott it . " that be a very confusing position for the Government to find themselves in . the Secretary of State suggest that the Bill do not stop boycott of occupy territory , but actually we need just to read the Bill to see that that be exactly what it propose . will the hon . member give way ? I will in a second . I want to make it clear that the Scottish Government and the SNP unequivocally condemn and distance themselves from member or affiliate in the BDS movement who advocate a complete boycott of Israel and israeli people and who suggest that the state of Israel do not even have the right to exist . the Scottish Government be also commit to tackle all incident of hate crime , work in partnership with a range of organisation , include Police Scotland . it would be a cruel distraction for the Government to equate sympathy and support for oppressed people with antisemitism . the Bill lead to the accusation that the Government think there be good and bad occupation . as other have say , when I have Uyghur muslim constituent with child in camp , I can not support and vote for a Bill that would stop organisation from campaign against or boycott chinese good on the basis of the treatment of Uyghur Muslims . with kurdish constituent , I can not support a Bill that would stop I , or organisation or public body , from boycott good from Turkey or Syria on the basis of the oppression of kurdish people . I can not support a Bill that ignore environmental concern . friend of the Earth say that the Bill will " prevent public body from divest from fossil fuel , as well as divert their money away from inadvertently fund human right abuse abroad " . that be what the Bill do . it will make it illegal for public body and local authority to divest from or boycott fossil fuel company and those with poor track record on protect environmental standard . the Scottish National party — and I believe , the scottish people — will not participate in this diminution of freedom of speech and disregard for the wellbeing of our friend throughout the world . early , I refer to the Bill as the death rattle of a die government . minister really should withdraw the Bill ; it be a complete and utter dog ' s breakfast . if they do not , I support the Opposition ' s reason amendment and the Bill do not deserve to pass Second Reading . rise — a large number of right hon . and hon . be try to catch my eye . if we be to get everyone in , my guidance be that speech should be limit to about six minute . I agree with much of the sentiment of the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Wigan ( Lisa Nandy ) , for whom I have a great deal of regard , as she know . however , fine word butter no parsnip . it be easy to identify the source of the problem , but it be a little more difficult to legislate in such a complex area . I would respond to some of the thing that the hon . Lady say on two front . first , it be okay for people to make reference to the political view and other writing of a KC who be advise she and her right hon . and hon . friend . that be a perfectly legitimate thing to bring to the House ' s attention . King ' s counsel be not Gods and they be not beyond any criticism . secondly , she make the point , in many way , for why we require the Bill — specifically , clause 3 ( 7 ) . she highlight her own work — for which I applaud she — during a very difficult time in her party ' s history . she stand up and receive all sort of appal abuse because of the position she be prepared to take on what be go on in her party . I be grateful for and impress by her bravery in do that . it be an incredible thing for Opposition Members to do at that time . precisely because we end up in the position we do , where people with sympathy for the BDS campaign come very close to power in this country , we require clause 3 ( 7 ) and the specification of Israel . BDS be an antisemitic , racist campaign — there be no doubt about that . it single out the state of Israel for special treatment . there be something peculiarly sinister about those who obsess about Israel while be blind to the behaviour of despot and dictator across the world . I hope that be not the case for most member in the House , but it be for some who oppose this view . that be not my view , but that of the German Parliament , the Bundestag , which pass a motion a few year ago that state that the action of the BDS be reminiscent of the terrifying Nazi campaign against jewish people under Adolf Hitler . it go on to say : " the ' don ' t buy ' sticker of the BDS movement on israeli product " could be associate with " the Nazi call ' don ' t buy from Jews ' and other correspond graffiti … on shop window " . I would hope that none in the Chamber would support those sort of action or behaviour . it be a little off subject , but today we learn that the last french D - day fighter of Nazism L é on Gautier have pass away . it would be nice for we to remember his name today . sadly , that behaviour root in the Nazi period have not pass . we have see so many example of it , as member have remind we this afternoon . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Mike Freer ) for remind I of some experience of his constituent in recent year . I will not repeat they due to time constraint , but they include the removal of kosher product because of the pernicious , racist BDS movement and the fact that film festival in this country have be cancel because they dare to take a small amount of sponsorship from the israeli embassy . the BDS campaign have consequence . it be no wonder a jewish driver be attack in Golders Green outside Kosher Kingdom for dare to have an israeli flag on his vehicle . it be no wonder we end up with the appalling antisemitic incident and attack on british campus . british Jews become the target and victim of the campaign — none of we should forget that . we can not divorce BDS from its impact on the jewish citizen of our country . we have see record number of antisemitic incident in recent year — it be important to remind the House of those . last year , 1 , 652 antisemitic incident be record by the Community Security Trust . worryingly , the proportion of victim who be minor have increase . perhaps even bad , the proportion of minor perpetrate those attack have also increase ; in 2022 , 20 % be record as minor — a number that have double in recent year . we must do everything we can to abate the trend among young people , some of which be motivate by the BDS campaign . every time there be a flare - up in the middle east conflict , british Jews be on the receiving end . the current issue , which the Chair of the Select Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) reference , of rise tension in the region be the big argument for the legislation in the form in which it have be produce . any rise in tension in the middle east will result in an uptick in BDS activity . I be interested in what the Scottish National party spokesman , the hon . member for Glasgow South West ( Chris Stephens ) , say on that . he be careful to say , " of course , we disassociate ourselves from people in the BDS movement who delegitimise the state of Israel through boycotts . " however , he do not tell we his view of those people when they argue for boycott in the Occupied Palestinian Territories or in the settlement . the problem be that they be not different people , but the same . he can not separate they from the people seek to delegitimise Israel , and say , " those people be wrong , and racist and antisemitic " , as many in the BDS movement be , and then infer , as I think he be do , that their activity and what they demand be okay when they relate to other part . they be the same people who hold the same pernicious , racist view . many people with issue about the Bill have legitimate concern — there be no doubt about that . the Secretary of State say at the Dispatch Box that he be prepared to work in Committee to see how we can improve the Bill if require . that be a sensible thing to say . however , I be afraid that for some who oppose the Bill , it be always about Israel . their beef be always the state of Israel . I have hear some bizarre argument against the Bill , one of which be that it will increase antisemitism . that be a strange argument , to put it mildly . just because some people do not like the legislation , say that it might result in an increase in antisemitism and " oh , in which case , let ' s not bother with it " rather prove the point of the Bill . rise — I will give way , because I like my hon . friend . it be not really about like each other , important though that be . it be about what the jewish Chronicle itself have say : " boycott Israel be wrong but this anti BDS bill be not the answer … this be a bad bill … and bad especially for british Jews " . be my hon . friend aware of that , and do he realise that many Jews be not in favour of this way of try to protect themselves from antisemitism ? the editor - at - large of the jewish Chronicle , in an excellent piece today , write : " there be no room for shade of grey here . you either think it ' s fine to boycott Jews — in which case you will oppose the Bill — or you don ' t , in which case you will support it . " I thank my hon . friend for his intervention , which rather helpfully take I on to my point about the view of the jewish community : the Board of Deputies of British Jews and the jewish Leadership Council be unite in believe that the Bill be invaluable in the battle against antisemitism . I be respond to some of the opposition to the Bill . one issue be that of settlement . the Bill will have no impact on the UK ' s policy on settlement , which be that they be illegal under international law . that do not change with the Bill . the country do not , at the moment , have a boycott policy against settlement product or product come from the occupy Palestinian Territories , precisely because it be so complex in term of who actually work there and who be damage economically . the Bill make no difference to that and neither do it prevent any criticism of Israel . that can continue and we have hear that today . I end where I start : this legislation be necessary to deal with a pernicious and peculiarly sinister antisemitic campaign group . rise — Order . I remind colleague that I say six minute , as oppose to 10 . if colleague could stick to that , that would be helpful . I be afraid I completely disagree with the hon . member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) . the Bill reflect what be wrong in politic today . the Government have put forward legislation that be flawed , poorly draft , and will have damaging consequence both here and abroad . they have not do it to support Israel , to demonstrate solidarity with the jewish community , or to show they really care about undermine the BDS movement . they simply want to set a political trap for Labour . by put their crude party political interest above the public interest , they confirm what voter think about we : that politician waste time on childish political game rather than try to make the world a well place . it be that behaviour that lead to a loss of trust . the Bill be not a consider attempt to bring about peace , provide well security for Israel or respond to the threat pose by BDS . it be about use Jews as a pawn in the Government ' s political game . to debate the Bill on the day that violence have flare up again in the west bank be a solemn reminder of why this really matter . I say to the Government : our voter have have enough of that sort of politic , and so have I . like many who oppose this legislation , I be a proud Zionist . I oppose the divisive and at time antisemitic BDS campaign . I will always fight antisemitism , whenever and wherever it rear its ugly head . action be need , but the Bill will do more harm than good . so what be wrong with it ? first , it single out Israel . many supporter of Israel rightly feel that hostile campaigner single out the israeli - palestinian conflict and that the same level of attack be not mete out to Myanmar , for example , or to China for its treatment of the Uyghurs . the Bill play into the hand of antisemite by do the one thing we should never , ever do : single out Israel as the one place that can never be boycott . no other country be name . if the Bill be pass , I fear — and know from my own post box — that it will have the unintended consequence of increase anti - Jew hatred in Britain . we have see the letter to the Prime Minister from Uyghur exile oppose the Bill , because it will affect they and make it impossible to boycott good from China . what thought have the Government give to ethical concern that public body may have about , for instance , the Ugandan Government and their treatment of the LGBT community ? by single out Israel , the Bill pit the mainstream jewish community against every other valiant human right campaign , and do so in a way and at a time that will make peace in the region more difficult . I return recently from Israel , where I see the chaos be work by the extreme action of the present Government . from undermine democracy with attack on judicial independence to the untrammelled expansion of settlement in the occupy territory , Israel have never be more divided and israeli politic have never feel more broken . the good thing Britain can do be to put diplomatic pressure on the israeli Government to abandon the judicial reform and de - escalate the violence . the Bill will deliver the complete opposite . it will be herald by the Netanyahu Government as a ringing endorsement of their action . it will send the wrong message at the wrong time . like other , I reject the approach of BDS to Israel . its action encourage hatred between community and too often its supporter be antisemitic in what they say . Wrongdoing be never defeat by stifle free speech and open debate , and that be what the Bill do . it prohibit elect public officer from even make statement suggest that they support boycott in any state . clause 4 be a gagging clause , and argument be never win by suppress democratic debate . I learn that fight the British National party in the 2010 general election . I do not beat Nick Griffin by refuse to engage with he . it be by engage publicly , by his appearance on " Question Time " , and by allow he free speech that we expose what a vile , divisive , racist party he lead . unmask he through debate help we to smash he at the ballot box . the Government have just legislate to enshrine free speech in our university , but be now cancel the freedom of elect official in this grubby little Bill . be they really committed to tackle the BDS problem , they would support our reason amendment which would ensure that decision public authority take on procurement and investment would be consistently apply to all country . Israel would not be single out . I spend year as a councillor . the idea that local politician should not express view on either national or international issue be deeply arrogant . we stand for public office because of our political principle , and that be true whether one be a back - bench councillor or a Cabinet Minister . the idea that the two elect position differ in their democratic status be plain wrong . it be a typical , hugely centralise move by the Government that put yet another nail in the coffin of devolution . on those ground alone , the Bill should be oppose . I be in local government when anti - apartheid be a strong movement . our council join many other to boycott South Africa . Margaret Thatcher oppose those boycott in the name of economic liberalism and introduce legislation in 1988 similar to that propose today . as we now know , that legislation prove ineffective , but the Government seem incapable of learn the lesson of history . I urge member to support the amendment move by my hon . friend the Member for Wigan ( Lisa Nandy ) . it provide a fair and pragmatic response to the potential damage that BDS could bring to Israel . the Minister may claim to be promote the Bill in the name of our community , but it fail to protect or advance the interest of the jewish community : it promote community discord rather than encourage community cohesion ; it encourage conflict rather than inspire peace ; it cancel free speech rather than promote democratic debate ; it be another centralise move at the expense of localism ; and it provide support for the extremist action of the present israeli Government , rather than use our influence to express our concern and calm thing down in the middle east . it be a bad , bad Bill . as one of the few Jews on the Opposition Benches , as a commit Zionist and as someone who stand with my community in desperately want a peace in the region that bring security to Israel , I ask the government : please think again . I thank the Government for bring forward this important Bill . in my former role as Chief Secretary to the Treasury , I take the Public Service Pensions and Judicial Offices Act 2022 through the House , and that mark the first legislative step against BDS . it be a landmark moment , legally enforce the principle that BDS have no place in the investment decision of local authority . I strongly welcome our fulfil our manifesto commitment to extend that principle . put simply , local authority have no business run a foreign policy parallel to that of his Majesty ' s Government . that remit be absolutely within our gift , not theirs . their role be to deliver local service for the community they represent , to innovate and to deliver good value . I say that as someone who be a convince believer in devolution . I believe that we should empower mayor to lead area of the country in a way that will unlock their economic potential , but I do not want they opine on the right and wrong of the behaviour of different country . it be emphatically unhelpful for local authority to hinder our country ' s export trade , damage our foreign relation and act in a way that be to the detriment of our international or economic security . much of the specific concern in this debate be about Israel , and that be because it be always about Israel . this be the point that we can not elide and that sit at the heart of the reason why Israel need to be mention on the face of the Bill . there be member argue against Israel be name specifically in this Bill for whom I have great respect and whom I count as personal friend . but we can not be oblivious to why Israel need this protection . the overwhelming focus of the BDS movement be , of course , on this one small state . the BDS movement be not argue against the horror perpetrate in Russia , China , Iran or any number of other country — we could list for hour those country that perpetrate grotesque wrong against their people — and I do not see local authority act against those country , either . I see they act consistently against our ally Israel . there can be no doubt , as my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) say , that the motivation of some in the BDS movement be dark , sinister and unashamedly link to the antisemitism that we have see in our society over recent year , perhaps particularly and most shamefully in our university . it be disgusting and it be hard not to see aspect of it in the attempt to enforce some of these boycott and divestment . they simply have no place in modern Britain . it be right that we should act against this and remind local government of its proper responsibility , which be large and grow under this Government . I certainly believe that that should be its focus . I come to this debate without any significant minority community in my constituency . I simply see a wrong that we should right , an offence that we should not give , and money , energy and time that our local authority should be spend to well effect on their significant responsibility . foreign affair should be leave to this place , not to town hall . it be an honour to rise to oppose this Bill in the strong possible term . I be very disappointed in how the Bill be present by the Secretary of State , who leave his place without even listen to other Front - Bench speech . I be incredibly encouraged , however , by the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , the hon . member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) , who give a reasoned and constructive speech , and , of course , by my right hon . friend the Member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) . she come to these issue from a different place from I , but I agree with every word she say . I want to cover three main area : the unprecedented power that the Bill give the Secretary of State and , by implication , the removal of balanced decision making from those in local government who have be elect to serve their local community ; the incompatibility of the Bill with international law and the conflation of the UK ' s long - stand cross - party position in respect of the occupy Palestinian Territories and the Golan Heights with the state of Israel ; and the exposure of the UK Government to extend and repeat legal challenge , which would take away money that , as the right hon . member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland ( Sir Simon Clarke ) say , need to be spend in our local community . let I go through those three point . the Government have often state their commitment to devolution , and they have deliver it in many area , allow as much decision making as possible to take place near the people whom politician be elect to serve . this Bill fly in the face of that claim . it will act as a gagging order on local authority in a way that no other piece of legislation do . many in local government have raise huge concern about the impact of the Bill , include the Local Government Chronicle , the Local Government Association and the TUC . particular concern have be raise about the Bill ' s impact on the 6 million local government pensioner . be that really the Government ' s intention ? the Bill will ban public body — mainly local authority but also university and other — from work within current procurement rule and make their own decision appropriate to their own area . if we look to history to inform the future , we will see that the most effective example in my lifetime be the successful campaign against the apartheid regime in South Africa . that undoubtedly help bring down that regime and lead to democracy in South Africa , which be something that the international community and the UK should be proud of . be we really suggest that we should not be allow to take such a position again ? I turn to the Bill ' s incompatibility with international law and the UK ' s long - stand cross - party position in respect of the occupy Palestinian Territories and the Golan Heights , which be be conflate with the state of Israel . why do the Bill highlight those three area ? on the face of it , it look as though the Secretary of State wish to penalise council that have act not against the state of Israel but against illegal settlement build on the occupied Palestinian Territories , in flagrant defiance of successive UN Security Council resolution , which the UK help draft and vote in favour of . it seem to I that the UK Government be throw all sense to the wind . we all wish to see this part of the world live in peace . the violence that have erupt today be an example of how crucial it be to bring peace to this area . the failure to distinguish between the sovereign territory of Israel and the territory occupy in 1967 , as outline in UN Security Council resolution 2334 , be an alarming deviation from the long - stand UK policy . I ask the Secretary of State to look again and remove the most contention part of the Bill . those who push this Bill make a very dangerous conflation between legitimate criticism of illegal israeli action and the horror of antisemitism , which we all abhor . finally , and briefly — I be go to stick to the time limit — this Bill , if it go through in its current state , will result in an appalling waste of money . it will undoubtedly lead to not one , not two but numerous legal challenge , with each cost the Government , and therefore the british taxpayer , an enormous amount of money . in the current economic climate , throw thing to the wind and rush headlong into such a Bill , which do not solve the problem that it set out to solve , be absolutely irresponsible in the first degree . I ask the Government to either look again and remove the contentious clause , or start again and bring to the House a Bill that actually do what it set out to do and that sort out the problem and do not cause utter chaos in this area of policy making . I rise with a heavy heart to agree with many comment from across the House on the nature of this defective Bill . I agree with Richard Hermer KC , who in a very compelling interview publish in today ' s jewish News talk about the problem that this Bill present not just for the UK as a whole but for British Jewry in general . take thing in order , my primary concern be the safety of that community . as somebody who have work very closely with the jewish community , particularly in the capital over the year , and who have a strong affection for the Haredi community in north London , whom I know well both in police and crime term and have deal with their housing issue as Housing Minister , I be afraid that I agree with the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) that this Bill , should it go through in its current form , be likely to damage and worsen their safety rather than improve it . in that I be with Jonathan Freedland , who write in the jewish Chronicle just last week : " what be the favourite refrain of the antisemite ? that Israel be the one country you ' re not ' allow ' to criticise . this bill take a canard and , in the case of boycott , turn it into the law of the land . " the inclusion of clause 3 ( 7 ) and , indeed , part of clause 4 send a chill through that sense of debate , and will feed some of the disgusting conspiracy theory about the status of Israel and the influence that that country have around the globe . I have to say that I fear for the safety of the jewish community should the measure be pass in that form . there be those who would do its member harm — we all know that in this House , and I have see it for myself — and we can not give they succour by fall into that trap . my second concern be the practical impact of the Bill on many organisation across the country . as we hear from the hon . member for Sunderland Central ( Julie Elliott ) , this be a lawyer ’ charter . there will be challenge to and fro , involve university , pension fund and council . every decision that be take will be scrutinise , and , moreover , councillor who have strong conviction in either direction will seek to find way that be oblique to fulfil their own sense of moral or ethical obligation . there be group out there who represent other country , such as China and Myanmar , who will seek constantly to push council in their direction , and not just in term of Israel or Palestine . as a result , a huge amount of money and effort , and kc at dawn , will be expend in pursuit of this legislation , and the impact will be enormous . thirdly , two key fundamental issue that be intrinsic to the way we live in the United Kingdom be challenge by the Bill . the first be , obviously , the free - speech challenge to which a number of member have already refer , and which be represent in clause 4 ( 2 ) . it appear that I can not even criticise this law , whether I be a council leader , a university vice - chancellor , or the chief executive of a company that be perform public service . I have never before see legislation that outlaw disagreement with the law , and I think that breach that right to free speech be a very problematic step . the second of these issue be mention by the hon . member for Wigan ( Lisa Nandy ) . a law grant power great than those grant to the police to the investigatory or enforcement authority identify in the Bill — the Secretary of State , the Office for Students , and one or two other — and allow they , in particular , to breach legal privilege so that organisation can effectively go on a fishing trip look at the legal advice that individual have take as they contemplate investment decision be a Rubicon that I believe it would be wrong to cross . the fourth area that concern I relate to our tradition of pluralism in this country . there be no doubt that the Bill will send a chill through debate about a series of conflict across the world . whether we be talk about the Uyghur Muslims in China , the fate of Hong Kong Chinese or , indeed , those in Israel and Palestine , the fact be that everyone who be engage in democracy , locally or on a devolve - nation basis , will have to be extremely careful about what they say . they will have to think twice and three time before they discuss these issue , lest that should prejudice , or be see to prejudice , an investment or other decision that they may make in the future . this be especially problematic in the context of academic freedom . as we hear from the Chair of the Select Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) , we have just pass a law to guarantee academic freedom : freedom on campus . for that freedom now to be restrict . particularly for those in leadership position in university , strike I as perverse . it should come as no surprise that the Union of jewish Students be flatly oppose to the Bill , which be apposite give that its member be often the people most expose to antisemitism in this form . finally , I want to raise the issue of timing . the right hon . member for Barking say that this be the bad Bill at the bad time ; I think that it be a defective Bill at a dreadful time . give what be unfold in Israel and Palestine today , give the toll of death that we have see so far this year on all side and give the international concern about the escalate violence in that part of the world , the introduction of this Bill at a time when many country in that region be extremely concerned about what be go on will be see by arab country in particular — although member may not feel this themselves — as be partial , and as privilege one country over the other . I think that that will be detrimental not just to our interest in the United Kingdom , which be a primary concern . but to the interest of Israel , Palestine and the wide region . it be a pleasure to follow another excellent speech dissect what be wrong with this very faulty Bill . what a contrast it be with the Secretary of State ' s open speech , which be effectively a display of polemical and performative rhetoric , contain assertion that the Bill itself contradict — and I think that be a shame . we have benefit from some extremely good analysis , although I have not be able to read all the briefing on the Bill that we have receive , not just from eminent kc — it be , again , a shame to witness one of they be spear by the Secretary of State — but from some lead expert organisation in the field : from the Council for arab - british Understanding , from our former colleague Richard Burden , from the Balfour Project , from many jewish organisation include Yachad and the Union of jewish Students , from many trade union , and from environmental group who believe they will be catch up in this as well . I do not think that be what the Secretary of State intend ; I think he intend the Bill to appeal to a populist narrative ; but I do not think that have happen . perhaps it be the revenge of the expert whom he trash so publicly year ago . while it be good that the Bill be not be give a platform and be not act in the way in which the Government would like it to act — the way in which all the other legislation they be introduce seem to act at the moment — that do not mean that it be not a dangerous bill . it do not mean that there be no harm in its provision : harm to civil society , the rule of law and freedom of speech , principle that the Secretary of State would doubtless say that he wish to uphold . I be pleased to say that the nature and number of the risk in the Bill have be helpfully set out by the shadow Secretary of State , my hon . friend the Member for Wigan ( Lisa Nandy ) , in the reason amendment , and I commend she for an excellent piece of drafting that really take the Bill to piece . I hope it will be approve tonight , because it would deny the Bill a second reading . if it do not succeed , some member may vote against Second Reading , while other may abstain . I will abstain at that point , because I be reassure by the shadow Secretary of State ' s assurance that if the Bill be not substantially reform in the way in which the amendment suggest , it will be reject . I hope it will be reject by member in all part of the House on Third Reading , before it leave this place . in the very limited time available to I , I want to headline my concern . the first question I want to ask be this : will the Bill help or hinder group that be under threat around the world , such as the Uyghurs , the Rohingya , minority in country , or people in occupy territory — in Western Sahara , Northern Cyprus , Crimea , or the palestinian territory ? will it help they in any way ? the answer be , I think , a clear no . the Bill will run contrary to international law , it will run contrary to United Nations Security Council resolution , particularly resolution 2334 , and it will run contrary to the due diligence and fiduciary duty of local authority and other public body and to legal principle . the fcdo guidance have already be quote , and we have hear what Ministers have say as recently as last week in make distinction between our policy towards Israel and our policy towards the Occupied Palestinian Territories . this point have be make a number of time already . by treat Israel exceptionally , the Bill do it no favour . by treat the occupied Palestinian Territories alongside Israel , in a way that I have not see before and that run contrary to Government policy over many year under different government , the Bill make a significant break and give comfort to those who wish to see the palestinian territory under permanent occupation , include many within the extremist Government in Israel . whatever the Secretary of State say , the Bill be a clear attack on free speech , and it be quite kafkaesque in how it deny people the ability to speak out against what be happen . by inflict not only strong power of search and seizure but unlimited fine and penalty on those who speak out , this really be appal legislation . the Bill will have a chilling effect . we do not need to analyse the exact effect on every procurement and investment decision to see that pension fund be conservative body that will take decision in way that do not lay they open to this very woolly legislation . the consequence be that they will make bad decision that go much far than the Secretary of State say he wish to take the Bill . finally , I speak up , as many member do , for the palestinian people . how do this Bill benefit they ? what effect will it have ? on a day in which battlefield weapon be be use against civilian area of the west bank for the first time in decade , we be talk about this scurrilous and performative Bill . the occupy territory have be occupy since 1967 . who will champion , as I wish this government and this country would , their right to self - determination and their right to have their country recognise as a sovereign state , as we absolutely respect for the people of Israel ? this Bill only hamper ambition along those line . for those reason , I ask Members on both side of the House to vote for the reason amendment and not to allow the Bill to pass from this House in its current form . I also have grave reservation about this Bill . I want to be clear that it be not exclusively about Israel and Palestine ; it be about the mandate and responsibility of elect figure in the UK . it be also about contradiction in policy . on the one hand , we have legislate to protect freedom of speech in university , but this Bill will prevent university from discuss the impact of foreign government ' behaviour on their activity . the Bill be wide in scope but confuse in its relationship to the Government ' s aim as a whole . for instance , clause 1 be word so that territory recognise as illegally occupy by international law be still within scope , wherever in the world they be . it seek to prevent public body , such as local council , from " be influence by political or moral disapproval of foreign state when take certain economic decision " . in fact , those public body may well simply be have regard to international law or the previously express opinion of his Majesty ' s Government . clause 4 address how a person intend to act . this mean that elect official with serious responsibility can not even have a public discussion about how they ae affect by the behaviour of overseas state . a prohibition on publishing mean it be impossible to have a discussion at a husting , in the medium or in response to question about human right . as we have hear , the Bill be likely to end up in court , either in the way that Prigozhin try to muzzle journalist in the UK or , conversely , by someone assert that their article 10 right under the ECHR have be breach . the Bill curb free speech and the free exercise of responsibility for elect body whose mandate we should respect . the Bill ' s wording imply that , among office holder , only Ministers can express an opinion on the country that should be exempt under clause 3 . this mean that people in other tier of government with responsibility within the scope of clause 2 can not . no matter how bad a country ' s human right record or respect for international law , discussion or action will be prevent . that bring I on to Israel , the Occupied Palestinian Territories and the occupy Golan Heights . why have they be single out in clause 3 ( 7 ) ? like my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) and the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) , I do not believe this be helpful . Jonathan Freedland write in the jewish Chronicle of his concern that the Bill will make antisemitism bad , because ban the consideration of the economic consequence of thing that be happen in the occupy territory , and issue financial penalty where consideration be give , will just cause resentment . as he say , the good way to bring about change be to engage and debate . I disagree with some BDS advocate , such as the Palestine Solidarity Campaign . Israel have every right to exist , and its people have a right to live in peace . however , where Israel breach international law , other must be permit to point this out and hold it to account . this Bill would prevent that . the Bill mention the opt and the Golan Heights . do this mean that boycott the settlement will be against the law ? these settlement be illegal under international law , and the UK Government ' s own website state that there be " clear risk relate to economic … activity in the settlement , and we do not encourage or offer support to such activity … UK citizen and business should be aware of the potential reputational implication of get involve in economic and financial activity in settlement , as well as possible abuse of the right of individual . those contemplate any economic or financial involvement in settlement should seek appropriate legal advice . " Israel benefit economically from its illegal occupation , and we should be permit to comment and consider it in our policy . the Foreign Secretary ' s joint statement with Australia and Canada on 1 July show the concern about the rapidly increase number of new settlement on the west bank . how can public body show their concern , and why can they not show that concern by not buy good from settlement or by choose to buy palestinian good instead ? surely this be why we be a free country . disagree with the policy of the israeli Government have nothing to do with antisemitism . after all , many Israelis disagree with their own government . this Bill will not promote community cohesion but do the opposite , open more division . like other , I fear it may be detrimental to the british jewish community . I hope this Bill will be substantially change in Committee and beyond , because I do not understand why we need it . this poorly draft Bill will have far - reach consequence for the UK ' s protection and promotion of human right overseas . I extend my thank to the coalition of 70 civil society and justice organisation that have express strong concern about this Bill and how it will outlaw a powerful tactic of dissent and freedom of expression that have be use throughout history to achieve social change . I rise to oppose this Bill and to support our reason amendment that would decline to give it a second reading . what be at stake today should deeply concern every Member of this House . the Bill risk significantly undermine support for group around the world that be face persecution and international human right violation . labour steadfastly support a negotiate diplomatic settlement to the israeli - palestinian conflict , base on two state , and oppose the expansion of illegal settlement , settler violence , eviction and demolition . but how realistic be that when an israeli national security Minister have pledge to " crush " Palestinians " one by one " ? let we not forget that boycott campaign have exist right across the political spectrum and have long be use as peaceful and principled tool to fight oppression and injustice . they be a form of protest that should be protect in a democratic society . last year , the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities ask council to divest from Russia follow the illegal invasion of Ukraine , and he clearly recognise council ' economic importance and that moral consideration should inform what they do , so why can they not be trust to make their own choice now ? this Bill be so broad and destructive that it will completely prevent public body from take responsible and ethical decision in relation to human right abuse in their investment and procurement decision . although the Secretary of State argue that there be safeguard in the Bill , he know they will do nothing to limit the damage this Bill will cause . I be proud to represent the city of Liverpool , a city that have never falter in its solidarity with international liberation struggle . in the 1980 , when the African National Congress and south african trade union be fight apartheid , as a city we mobilise across the board to support their struggle . trade unionist organise in Ford factory to smuggle ANC literature in the boot of car , and seafarer drop parcel at south african port . the boycott movement play a significant role in successfully turn the tide on the apartheid Government , at a time when many powerful international government , include our own Thatcher - lead Government , support the regime . the importance of international solidarity when wage a struggle such as that against apartheid can not be underestimate and this ring as true today as it have throughout history . in the word of Nelson Mandela : " our freedom be incomplete without the freedom of the Palestinians " . his word resonate today , with injustice and violation of international humanitarian law across the globe still demand accountability . now , as then , international pressure will be key to achieve peace and justice . let we be clear : the aim of the Bill be to limit our ability to take action to protest , and the chilling effect that will be create be immeasurable . perhaps the most chilling aspect of the Bill be the so - call " gag clause " , whereby not only will public official be prevent from raise the issue of human right abuse in financial decision making , but it will be illegal for they to refer to the Bill as the reason prevent they from make a financial decision influence by human right abuse . for a Government who claim to champion freedom of speech , this be the depth of hypocrisy . it should make member in all part of this House seriously consider the impact of their vote today . today ' s vote be historic and it be up to we to decide which side of history we be on : be we a nation that champion freedom of expression and conscience , one that encourage act of solidarity with the oppressed , or be we a nation that curb even the basic right to speak out about violation and abuse of human right ? vote for the reason amendment . decline to give this Bill a second reading . I strongly support this legislation , and I want to thank all constituent who have be in touch with I to tell I their view on it . it be my honour and privilege to represent a constituency that be home to a substantial jewish community . as we have hear this evening , the BDS movement be deeply divisive . the founder of the group and many of its leadership figure do not recognise the right of Israel to exist . they have no commitment to a negotiate settlement and want to drive the two side apart , not bring they together . as have be point out , these local boycott split community here in Britain . many jewish people feel a deep sense of connection to Israel , so they could feel intimidate and victimise if their local council be to pursue a boycott . the spillover of anti - Israel to anti - jewish attitude and discrimination be illustrate by the supermarket that , in 2014 , take kosher food off the shelf after protester gather outside in support of a boycott of Israel . moreover , the BDS movement often seek to justify its campaign use the allegation that Israel can be equate with apartheid South Africa . that be a pernicious slur . in falsely accuse Israel of racism , it single out the world ' s only distinctively jewish state for unjustified and disproportionate attack . that fall squarely within the international Holocaust Remembrance Alliance definition of antisemitism and we should always reject it . I be gravely concerned that BDS activity have sometimes legitimise and drive antisemitism , and I note that the Communities Secretary have state that BDS have lead to " appal antisemitic rhetoric and abuse " . there be no justification for a boycott or sanction against Israel . cut economic tie with Israel will do nothing to further the peace process , or to get negotiation restart . Israel be our ally . it be the only real democracy in the middle east ; the only country in the middle east where equality for woman be fully protect ; the only one where the right of the LGBT community be respect ; and the only one with a genuinely free press and a fiercely independent judiciary . we should be strengthen economic , cultural and academic link with Israel , not sever they . Deeper engagement with Israel mean that we as a country can play a strong role in support peace and reconciliation between Israel and the Palestinians . it also bring advantage for job and economic growth here in the UK . I welcome the 2030 road map for bilateral relation between our two country , which be sign in March and will boost tech , trade and security tie . the phenomenal energy of Israel ' s digital economy and its cutting - edge pharmaceutical sector be just two reason why trade with Israel be an important source of prosperity for we in Britain . in 2017 , the Health Minister Lord O ' Shaughnessy estimate that every year some 100 million NHS prescription item in England be make by company in Israel . if we listen to the BDS movement and adopt its approach , we would see major disruption of NHS procurement of the medication that so many of we need and , inevitably , that would lead to rise cost . I join my right hon . friend in welcome today ' s legislation . BDS activist who bully council into adopt these measure be also bully the UK ' s advertising industry . for example , stop Funding Hate and Ethical Consumer be pro - BDS group that tell their supporter to follow the BDS national committee , a group with link to Hamas and other designate terrorist group . do she agree that today we can , certainly as a first step , set an example in tackle BDS within public body ? indeed . today be our opportunity to take a stand against BDS and I encourage as many hon . member as possible to do that . as part of the large ever deal between an israeli and a UK company , Rolls - Royce be deliver engine for El Al Dreamliner aircraft , support many highly skilled job in Britain . that type of massive commercial opportunity would be a thing of the past if we let these BDS boycott take hold and spread . in conclusion , this be a timely bill that I hope the House will back . I be deeply disappointed that Labour have say that it be vote against it today . the question be : do you support boycott against Israel or don ' t you ? I be strongly opposed to boycott of Israel , which be why I be vote for the Bill this evening . I be proud that it be a Conservative Government who have listen to the jewish community on this vital issue and bring forward the Bill it ask for to ban council boycotts . Israel be our friend and ally and we should be try to increase trade with Israel , not try to ban it . there be no justification for local council adopt their own international trade policy . these be rightly matter for our democratically elect Government in Westminster . I urge hon . and right hon . member to support the Bill in the Division Lobby this evening . I have be look forward to this legislation . as the chair of Labour Friends of Israel , I be against effort to destabilise , delegitimise and destroy Israel , the world ' s only jewish state . the purpose of the BDS movement , with its talk of apartheid , genocide and ghetto , be to demonise and , ultimately , destroy Israel . I have hope we might see a simple Bill design to restrain the ambition of BDS , with its single target , the state of Israel . Boycotts be not new for Jews . on 1 April this year , we mark the 90th anniversary of the Nazis ' first nationwide action against the Jews , a boycott target jewish business and professional . there be a long , dark history of boycott direct against jewish people . for the world ' s only jewish state to be target in this way show complete indifference to that history and a single - minded determination to destroy Israel ' s right to exist . the effect of BDS be feel not only in Israel . a 2019 Ministry of Strategic Affairs and Public Diplomacy report conclude that the victim of BDS include Jews in the diaspora . let we think what it mean to be jewish in Britain today . there be an understandable affinity between Israel and Jews in this country , but every day jewish student confront obsessive campaign for an academic boycott of israeli university . BDS seek to prevent israeli artist , actor and musician from perform in Britain . it want library to remove israeli author and to " no - platform " israeli speaker . supporter of BDS often seek to draw a comparison with South Africa . the measure take at that time be design to end apartheid and bring about the democratic state that we see today . but — here I agree with the Secretary of State — BDS do not support a two - state solution , advocate peace negotiation or seek to bring community together . to be fair to its leader , Omar Barghouti , he be clear that he oppose a jewish state in any part of what he call Palestine . we all know what the chant " from the river to the sea " actually mean . BDS be a policy design to end Israel ' s existence . the movement oppose the idea of normalisation ; in fact , normalisation have become a pejorative term in relation to Israel and Palestine thank to the effort of such movement . of course , BDS be not without success : a vociferous campaign against SodaStream lead to the closure of a plant in the west bank and the loss of 600 palestinian job . BDS put at risk the 10 , 000 UK business that have import - export arrangement . the UK be Israel ' s second large trading partner , with a relationship worth about £ 7 billion . israeli company provide one in seven NHS drug , estimate to save we around £ 3 billion per year . as we have hear , we be negotiate a new free trade arrangement , which will vastly improve benefit for both country . our security arrangement help to save thousand of life and regularly help to foil terrorist attack in the UK , yet BDS want to end military co - operation . it be against that background that I have hope to welcome this legislation ; instead , we get a dog ' s dinner — a Bill that in its present form can serve only to guarantee conflict between the Government , local authority and other public body , and will inevitably result in endless legal challenge . it seek to limit the freedom for council and other public body to speak out in the face of obvious injustice . far from not single out Israel — a key demand of many jewish and anti - BDS group — specific attention be draw to Israel in the Bill . this be a Bill that have lose focus . its scattergun approach and willingness to confuse legitimate political protest with what should be simple power to restrict the demand associate with the BDS movement will provide endless publicity opportunity for Israel ' s enemy . it be unworkable in its current form . if there be to be any hope of the Bill become a reasonable , practical measure , it require substantial improvement . I hope that the Secretary of State will not play party or petty politic but seek to build consensus with people across the House who be willing to work together on measure design to rid we of the malign influence of the BDS movement . at the same time , I say to my hon . friend the Member for Wigan ( Lisa Nandy ) that , although I be full of admiration for her good intention and acknowledge that the reason amendment have be frame in response to the mess before we , I be not entirely sure that it cut mustard either . nevertheless , in deference to her good intention , I will support the amendment tonight . if I be fortunate enough to serve on the Bill Committee , I hope we can find common ground to create workable legislation to tackle the folly of BDS ambition and its one and only target . I hope we can achieve that without impose ludicrous restriction on legitimate political activity , or the freedom of speech of local government and those who represent public body . have wait so long , tonight be a tremendous disappointment for I , but there be still time to put thing right . I urge Ministers not to ignore the opportunity . I welcome many of the remark make by the hon . member for Birmingham , Selly Oak ( Steve McCabe ) , and particularly his final comment about want to work together across the House to see how the Bill can be improve . it will , I think , come as no surprise to many that I be uncomfortable with the Bill as it stand — and arguably more , not less , so after hear the Secretary of State ' s almost exclusive focus on the BDS movement and its antisemitic agenda . the point of the Bill be to fulfil a conservative party manifesto commitment , so let I explain why I be unhappy with it . first , as it stand , the Bill fulfil something different from our manifesto commitment ; secondly , it seriously undermine our commitment to freedom and tolerance ; thirdly , it give a special and exclusive right not just to Israel but to part of Israel that be either annexed or illegally occupy ; fourthly , it effectively outlaw even the express thought of disagree with the Bill , should it be pass ; and lastly , it could backfire — and it be element of the jewish community who say that , not I . let I bring the detail alive . our manifesto do not mention Israel or the BDS ; it focus on prevent " public body from impose their own direct or indirect … sanction … against foreign country . " that commitment be , absolutely rightly , country - agnostic , yet clause 3 ( 7 ) specifically protect not just Israel but the Golan Heights and the occupied Palestinian Territories , which be of course not country . the provision exempt Israel alone from any change in Government policy — for example , the sanction on Russia — and that could be change only by primary legislation . our manifesto also rightly commit to championing free speech and tolerance . as I mention early , as have other , the Secretary of State for Education legislate only recently specifically to enforce that commitment on our university ; now , however , as a university vice - chancellor put it to I , the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities have tell he that he can not even say , be it allow , that he would prefer his university not to purchase anything manufacture on illegal settlement in the occupy territory . be that really what be intend ? this Bill , as present on Second Reading , appear to be a pro - Israel and anti - BDS Bill much more than the country - agnostic anti - boycott Bill promise in our manifesto . in turn , that have cause — there be no point in some member deny this early — some jewish commentator in jewish medium , jewish student union and jewish civic society group to express real concern that the Bill risk backfire . as the jewish Chronicle say , it would be " bitterly ironic if this … bill " to tackle the " anti - Israel BDS , end up hurt those who so many … have seek to help " . the Union of jewish Students go far and say that the Bill may " pit Jews against other minority " . so what to do ? the Labour party solution be to rip the Bill up and start again in unspecified way . our solution should be different . we should fulfil our manifesto commitment to legislate against public - body sanction in a country - agnostic way , but we do not need a special rule for Israel , let alone for annexed or occupy area that the United Kingdom do not recognise as a legitimate part of Israel . I very much hope that on Third read the Government will reconsider clause 4 ( 1 ) ( b ) , which as it stand be antidemocratic , and drop clause 3 ( 7 ) , which be neither necessary nor appropriate . I will therefore abstain in the vote on Second Reading . I very much hope that the commitment of my right hon . friend the Secretary of State to consider draft amendment will be strongly realise on Third Reading . I remind member that I be a vice - president of the Local Government Association . first , I want to be very clear that the Liberal Democrats condemn antisemitism . Anti - jewish hatred have absolutely no place in our society , and we must all do more — as individual , as political party and as a Parliament — to tackle antisemitism in all its form . nor do we support the BDS movement or any other single out of Israel drive by anti - jewish hatred . however , we do not believe that this piece of legislation be go to help to tackle antisemitism . in fact , as many member throughout the House , include the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) , have already set out , the measure in the Bill could even be counterproductive , which be frankly the last thing we want . liberal Democrats be also deeply concerned by a series of the provision in the Bill . first , it will greatly restrict the ability of public body to take action against human right abuse . many public body as well as civil society organisation be alarm by the persecution of the Uyghurs in Xinjiang , which have lead to the detention of more than a million people by the chinese state . regrettably , the Government have fail to recognise the genocide that be take place in Xinjiang , even though Parliament have call on they to do so . it be appal that a local council will be prevent from call what be take place in Xinjiang what it be — a genocide — simply because the Government continue to take a cowardly approach . it seem extraordinary that a local council or museum would risk a significant fine by decide that they do not want to buy product come from Xinjiang . many of we in this place will remember the popular boycotts of south african good in the 1980 , which be an effective way of demonstrate opposition to apartheid and which add to the international political pressure to end the regime . in this country , it be local council that lead the way then — and thank goodness they do — but under these new provision , such action would be illegal . secondly , this piece of legislation represent an unjustified restriction on the power of local community to take decision for themselves . as a liberal Democrat , I believe in liberalism , federalism and localism . we believe that it be up to local authority and public body to be able to decide for themselves what they do . if local councillor be elect on a manifesto that include a commitment to a boycott on ethical or environmental ground , we believe that those councillor should be hold to account by their local electorate , not ban by a distant central government . thirdly , we be hugely concern by the restriction on the freedom of speech on public body and elect representative in clause 4 — the gagging clause . the Bill do not just restrict a public body from engage in boycott and divestment ; it restrict it from say that it would support such a boycott if it be legal . that represent a significant overreach , which will erode a fundamental democratic right — that of free speech . fourthly , I echo the concern raise by other member that the provision in clause 3 represent an attempt by the Government to change their position on the status of the occupy territory . the UK Government have always make a distinction between the occupy territory and Israel , in line with international law . that be clear in everything from our trading arrangement to the advice give to business look to operate in the occupy territory . however , the Bill conflate the two by list the occupy territory as exempt from the Bill alongside Israel . the Bill go against not just the widespread consensus hold on both side of the House and by our ally , but international law . what an irony it be that , at the heart of a Bill design to restrict local council from speak out about international issue , we find the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities try to conduct his own foreign policy . it be almost as if he have forget the purport purpose of his own legislation . on today of all day , when we have awake yet again to more violence in the region , it be incredibly depressing that the Government be choose not to stand up for international law , at a time when there be such hopelessness around the conflict . in conclusion , I firmly agree that we need to do more on the press need to tackle antisemitism . I agree that the BDS movement target Israel will not help to achieve peace between Israel and Palestine . if there be a need to beef - up legislation on hate crime or prejudice against protect characteristic , such as race and religion , Liberal Democrats would wholeheartedly support such a move . local council should not be single out one country and hold it to a high standard than other because of their own prejudice , but close down debate on international human right issue will not achieve the stated aim of stamp out antisemitism . the resolution to the problem be not to clamp down on debate on international human right issue . the Liberal Democrats will oppose the Bill for that reason , and will be vote in favour of the reason amendment table by those on the Opposition Front Bench . I urge the Secretary of State to rethink this legislation and work across party line to resolve issue of prejudice and discrimination by more practical and fair mean . I rise to speak in support of the legislation this evening . I welcome the fact that we be follow through on a manifesto commitment to bring forward legislation in this difficult , sensitive and complicated area . I very much agree with the remark make by my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) , and my right hon . friend the Members for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland ( Sir Simon Clarke ) and for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) . we have have a number of speech strike slightly different tone . there be a very good speech from the hon . member for Wigan ( Lisa Nandy ) , who try to strike a reasonable tone and explain the rationale behind Labour ' s reason amendment . unfortunately for she and for the hon . member for Birmingham , Selly Oak ( Steve McCabe ) , who also make a thoughtful and intelligent speech , many of the speech from the Opposition Benches seem to be in favour of boycott , and want to keep a candle burn for be able to use boycott , divestment and sanction as tool at a local authority level , or among other public body . we on the conservative Benches be clear that we do not want to see public money be use in that way . we be clear about the main purpose of this legislation , which be to tackle , as have already be discuss , the BDS movement , with its pernicious effect , its link to antisemitism and the very ugly and divisive character behind it . to any Conservative Member who stand up and say that that be not the purpose of our commitment in the manifesto , I say that that be just not true . the gestation of the Bill — the process that it have go through and the internal discussion — have very much centre on try to do something for the first time about the BDS movement . to those member who argue that the problem with this legislation be that it will attract legal challenge , I say that every single time we have try to do something about the BDS movement it get a legal challenge . we know that the BDS movement will try to fight this in the court . that be not a surprise , but that should not be a reason for we to resile from our commitment to do something about the matter . there will be member in the House today who believe that the BDS movement , leave aside its ugly antisemitic characteristic , be a legitimate way of try to challenge the state of Israel . we hear that in some of the speech . the trouble with the BDS movement , as we know , be that time and again it single out the state of Israel in a way that it do not do with other country . as for the Labour party try to maintain a reasonableness about its position , I say look at what it do when it be in government . when the Welsh Labour Government try to introduce a new national procurement note in 2020 , what do they do ? surprise , surprise , they single out one state for potential sanction — the state of Israel . I be talk about Labour Ministers of the Crown today serve in the Welsh Government in Cardiff , so member will forgive I if I do not have total confidence in the reasonableness of the labour position that it be try to put forward . the BDS be a Palestinian - lead movement . who else be it suppose to protest against ? I realise that it have a global application , but it be a Palestinian - lead movement about Palestine . my hon . friend be right : it be a Palestinian - lead movement . when we consider the individual and organisation — palestinian and otherwise — at the root of it , we can see that the movement be deeply problematic . I do not believe that any Conservative should be identify and align themselves with any aspect of the BDS movement . I welcome the legislation . I welcome , too , the fact that the Secretary of State have make a very strong commitment to work with other and see whether improvement can be make to the Bill . he have show a genuine openness in that regard . none the less , improve the Bill can not mean water it down to make it ineffective , which we know the opponent of the Bill — the BDS movement outside this place — want we to do . I hope that the Government will remain robust and clear - sighted on this , but I also hope that we can work pragmatically and get good legislation on the statute book . I be pleased to contribute to what have be a generally thoughtful debate , from the moment that the shadow Secretary of State rise to speak . I be sorry that the Secretary of State leave so soon after his own rather provocative contribution , because he would have benefit from hear many of the speech . this be an ill - judge and unnecessary attack on local democracy — unnecessary not least because of the provision of the Local Government Act 1988 , which , alongside the notorious clause 28 prohibit local authority from " promotion of homosexuality " , also ban non - commercial consideration on contract on the basis of " the country or territory of origin . " that remain in place , so the Secretary of State have law to refer to , without need to bring forward this Bill , if there be the problem he describe . that legislation be a response by the Thatcher Government to a campaign co - ordinate by Sheffield City Council . we be the first council in 1981 , under the leadership of David Blunkett , to pledge to end all link with apartheid . many other follow , and in 1983 we set up Local Authorities against Apartheid , develop a network of around 120 council take action — action that be subsequently praise by Nelson Mandela after his release for its contribution to end apartheid . as someone who be in the leadership of the anti - apartheid movement for 20 year , I do not accept the application of the term apartheid to Israel , although I have to say that , if the policy trajectory of the current israeli Government continue in the way it have , that comparison will be increasingly difficult to resist . my point about the action that we organise be that it demonstrate the long history of local authority action over human right , which be something we should be proud of , and of local politician respond to local concern , whether about South Africa 40 year ago or about China today . clause 3 will enable action to be take where dispensation be give — by the whim of the Secretary of State , not even by Parliament . however , that highlight the exception provide in clause 3 ( 7 ) in relation to Israel , the Occupied Palestinian Territories and the Golan Heights . I want to be clear that I do not support the BDS campaign against Israel . I do think that we should long ago have take action on economic engagement with the illegal settlement , to match our word with positive measure , and it be extraordinary that this Bill prevent public body from implement the Government ' s own advice to business not to trade with the illegal settlement . however , for those of we who do not support BDS , that do not mean we should support ban it , and much of israeli society would agree . I be grateful to Yachad , which many colleague will know be a significant voice within the mainstream british jewish community , campaign for a political resolution in which Israel thrive alongside a viable and independent palestinian state . in its briefing on this Bill , it draw parallel with the debate in Israel on its own anti - boycott law in 2011 , in which Tzipi Livni , then Leader of the Opposition in the Knesset and previously Foreign Secretary , say : " I disagree with those that demand boycott , but I will fight for their right to express their view . " Dan Meridor of Likud , then Deputy Prime Minister , say : " I oppose boycott , but they should not be illegal . " Ruvi Rivlin , then Leader of the Knesset and subsequently President of Israel , slam the law for " turn freedom of speech into a civil injustice . " the Government argue that this Bill be necessary in oppose antisemitism , but , as other have say , there be important voice within the jewish community who disagree . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for student , I have work closely with the leadership of the National Union of Students in challenging antisemitism within its own organisation , and on every step of that journey I have liaise with the Union of jewish student . nobody will question the UJS ' s credential as a robust opponent of antisemitism . at its annual conference recently , UJS unanimously pass a resolution reaffirm its opposition to BDS , but reject any attempt to outlaw it . one of those involve in that motion write recently in the Times : " use legislation to outlaw BDS will do nothing in the fight against antisemitism … we may disagree with the BDS movement — we may even think that there be some people who support the BDS movement who be motivate by antisemitism — but the tactic of boycott , divestment , and sanction be non - violent and legitimate . " the Secretary of State have argue that it be his responsibility to bring forward this legislation in the context of the Government ' s manifesto commitment . I be conscious of the fact that the Government have fairly casually disregarded manifesto commitment in the past , but even if that be his justification , he should recognise that thing have change enormously since 2019 . the new extremist israeli Government be move from de facto to de jure annexation of the occupy territory . illegal settlement have be legalise and many more be plan , with the responsibility for they give to a far - right Minister who deny the existence of the palestinian people and have be condemn by the Board of Deputies of british Jews . today , we have see the massive israeli attack on Jenin , and not the first ; it follow month of raid across the west bank and on Nablus . across the west bank , settler attack — kill and injure Palestinians , torch their home , their business and their car — be be encourage by the israeli Government and those responsible be go unpunished . all that be design to end the prospect of a viable palestinian state and frustrate attempt to secure a just settlement . those israeli civil society voice who support our ambition for a two - state solution have make it clear that there could not be a bad time for the UK to send a signal that we see the occupy territory as part of Israel in the way that this Bill be frame . we should not do it . I urge the Government to think again . I draw the attention of the House to my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Sheffield Central ( Paul Blomfield ) , with whom I very largely agree . I want to start with a challenge to my right hon . friend the Member for Preseli Pembrokeshire ( Stephen Crabb ) to finish off the answer to my question about BDS itself . BDS be a Palestinian - lead movement , so it be not remotely surprising that its attention centre on the policy of Israel , which be in illegal occupation of palestinian territory . it be israeli policy that be prevent any possibility of a two - state solution from become a reality and BDS be the only movement within palestinian civil society that be pursue a non - violent course of resistance . we need to ask ourselves some fundamental question about what we expect of the occupy Palestinians . if we present the BDS movement in the very extreme way — describe to I as " disingenuous " by someone who have message I in the course of this debate — it have be present in this House , we be deny the Palestinians in that sense by ban their only legitimate way of express resistance to that occupation . that be where we need to take a step or two back . we be now on the receive end of more than 50 year of illegal israeli occupation of somebody else ' s territory . in an egregious way , Israel have occupy and settle that territory with 700 , 000 jewish people . the physical result of those settlement be that a two - state solution be now in effect impossible . there need to be some serious consideration of the implication of israeli policy , because it have be deliberate . we sit here parrot our support for a two - state solution , and the only point of difference I have with my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) who be now Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee be that I be afraid I now do support a one - state solution , because a two - state solution be now impossible . I hope that hon . member on the Front Bench will reflect that the people who convince I of that be the negotiation support unit that the Department for International Development be pay for in 2002 to give the palestinian negotiator a bit of capacity and heft in conduct negotiation with their israeli counterpart . Diana Buttu and Michael Tarazi be themselves then in favour of a one - state solution . what be wrong with that as a vision ? indeed , it would mirror the original sense of moral purpose about the state of Israel . it be a great achievement of the 20th century to find a homeland for the jewish people , who have be on the wrong end of history for hundred and hundred of year , particularly the appalling policy towards jewish people in Europe . I say to my colleague : do not try to present the one - state solution as a terrorist answer drive Israelis and Jews into the sea — that be absolute nonsense and of course it will never happen . if we be about try to create national reconciliation and a path to peace , we need now to start think originally . Palestinians be look over the wall at Israel and , strangely enough , young professional Palestinians want what the Israelis have . I do not think that Israelis in a similar position want to send their child , in 20 , 30 or 40 year ' time , to police the occupation . we see today the terrible event in Jenin , which be a product of the disaster and false horizon that the Oslo process have turn out to be for the palestinian people . there be desperate anger in occupied part of Palestine , where everything be be take away from people , but here we be attack a movement that try — although , of course , there be element of unacceptable rhetoric — to stay within the limit of peaceful resistance to illegal occupation . it would be think absolutely astonishing that we be face with this measure in the British Parliament . we need to think back on our history and the Balfour declaration . there be two part to that declaration . we have deliver on one of they , but I be afraid that the right of the people who be live in the territory that be now Israel have be violate in the most profound and fundamental way . we now have to deal with the dispossession that come of the establishment of the state of Israel . we need to deal with the result of this illegal occupation . we in this House be about to take away not only the ability to seek peacefully the mean to do that through local authority , but people ' s right to express support for it . this be a very un - Conservative measure and it need to be reject at the first opportunity , which be this evening , and that be how I will be vote . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Reigate ( Crispin Blunt ) . like many other , I think this be a sordid and grubby little Bill that take away many of the political freedom that we have enjoy for decade in this country . it follow , of course , similar piece of legislation from the Government over the past few year . they have seek to restrict our freedom to dissent and protest , but this Bill go far , as other have already remark upon . for the first time that I can remember , the Bill seek to criminalise thought as well as deed . that take it into a whole new dimension and be reason enough for it to be throw out by this House tonight . we live in a dangerous and uncertain world . humanity face many challenge , some of they existential in nature . I would argue that this be a time in our public discourse and public life when we need more moral judgment and ethical consideration , not few as the Bill try to suggest . in fact , the Bill do not actually outlaw local authority and public authority take ethical and moral judgment ; it simply outlaw they take one that the Government disagree with . the Government be try to tape to themselves not just the legitimacy of be the elect political Administration of the country , but the role of arbiter and mouthpiece for all of civil society . that be quite ridiculous . as other have say , many people elect their public official to represent their point of view , and they have a right to do so . if we constrain the ability of the representative , we also constrain the ability of the people . it be in the field of pension policy that this be most ridiculous . like other , I be , since the age of 60 , in receipt of a local government pension . that be because I pay into a saving fund for the year in which I work in local government . it be my money and that of my fellow pensioner . what right do this Government have to tell I what I can and can not do with my own money ? the Government have seek to place the question of Israel right at the heart of this legislation and of their argument . it be fundamentally base on a flawed premise : that criticism of the israeli Government or of israeli state policy be in itself antisemitic . that be wrong . we in this House should never get ourselves into the position of think that we have to choose between defend the human and political right of Palestinians in the middle east , and fight antisemitism on the street of our own country and throughout the world . we can and we must do both . I have the privilege to attend last week a meeting call by Yachad , a jewish organisation , in this House . I hear Michael Sfard , a distinguished human right lawyer from Israel , speak on the situation . he give a concise picture of what be happen in Israel today and describe the action of the current israeli Government — the most right - wing , anti - palestinian Government that Israel have ever have . he describe how two project be under way in that area of the world at the moment : the first be the de jure annexation of the occupied Palestinian Territories into the state of Israel , and the second be the change of constitutional law inside the state of Israel to allow that to happen . that be what have provoke mass demonstration by the ordinary israeli public on the street of Israel , where hundred of thousand of people be turn up to protest . that be what have lead to a situation in which the current Government of Israel have opinion poll rating down at 20 % . if there be an election today , they would be throw out of office by a landslide . yet in the context of what be happen on the street of the middle east at the moment , and of even the American Administration try to put distance between themselves and President Netanyahu , what be the policy of the UK Government ? their policy — an outlier in the international community — be to welcome the Israeli Administration with open arm . no one would be more pleased or gain more succour from the passing of such legislation than the current Israeli Administration , and no one would be more crestfallen about its passing than those of progressive liberal opinion inside the state of Israel , who do not want that to happen . the choice that we need to make be whether we will stand with the people of Israel and of Palestine in protect their human and political right against a very right - wing anti - palestinian Administration , or give succour — almost alone in the world in do so — to that Administration . I have already run out of time , Madam Deputy Speaker , but let I finish with this . we have to ask ourselves why the Bill come at this particular time , in the middle of all the crisis in the world and the domestic economic crisis right here on our own doorstep . why this piece of legislation at this particular time ? I think the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) hit the nail on the head : this be a grubby measure by the govern party to try to embarrass his Majesty ' s opposition for party political advantage . it be sordid , bad politic . it will not help jewish community in this country and it will not help to find a solution in the middle east for all the people who live there . I join the Front - Bench spokespeople in their tribute to the late Lord Kerslake . I will never forget the help and advice that he give I on deliver the Homelessness Reduction Act 2017 . it be sadly ironic that the Kerslake commission , on which I be proud to serve , be due to meet tomorrow to approve a long - await report , but it have be cancel because of his sad death . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Secretary of State on this long - await Bill , in which we take on — let we be clear — the BDS movement directly . this legislation be an endeavour for which I have be campaign for many year , and I thank he for his tireless work in bring this policy to fruition . I listen carefully to the hon . member for Edinburgh East ( Tommy Sheppard ) . I know his view — they be very clear , and he have espouse they on many occasion in the Chamber . he be vocal about they , and he be rightly hold in regard , but I be afraid that he be wrong . the House will be aware that the ability for public body to take power unto themselves that should correctly be reserve for the Government have sow division and discord across our nation . call for university to sever tie with academic partner in Israel have lead to a great number of prejudicial motion at our institution , isolate and alienate jewish student . the National Union of Students have report that anti - Israel hatred be plainly link to the racist treatment of british Jews , corroborate finding from the Community Security Trust , which find that campus antisemitism have hike by 22 % in the past year alone . this brand of student politic should not be permit at our university , let alone in our great democratic institution . this be not news . when I be at university the same thing go on — and that be a long time ago . speak of democracy , I shall elaborate on the claim that I have hear in recent day that this Bill somehow harm our commitment to free speech . I believe that it be the proponent of BDS who be pit one community against another , which result in a chilling effect on honest debate . it be intimidation , marginalisation and incitement to hatred . I agree with my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , a former Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government , who say in 2021 that " successive study have show the single good statistical predictor of anti - jewish hostility be the amount of BDS activity " . — [ Official Report , 22 February 2022 ; Vol . 709 , c . 213 . ] hon . member do not have to take my word for it . Omar Barghouti , founder of the BDS movement , write 20 year ago in 2003 that " the two - state solution for the Palestinian - Israel conflict be finally dead … the more just , moral and therefore endure alternative . . . the one - state solution . . . where , by definition Jews will be a minority " . the BDS national committee , the directive organ of the BDS movement , have on its board organisation include the Council of National and Islamic Forces in Palestine , and a coalition of proscribe terrorist group , include Hamas , palestinian Islamic Jihad , the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine , and many other . the council ' s leader , Khaled al - Batsh , act as a senior official for palestinian Islamic Jihad . the council ' s general co - ordinator , Mahmoud Nawajaa , have publicly support the armed wing of Hamas , the terrorist organisation that heinously murder three british national — a mother and her two daughter — in April . today in Holland , two BDS fundraiser be arrest for secure € 5 million to go directly to Hamas . the proposition set out in the Bill be a safeguard against the rise tide of discrimination and double standard , and will provide the balance crucially need in our national conversation . the Bill will empower the Government to introduce secondary legislation to enforce a boycott of state commit human right abuse . in response to colleague who have cite particular country , that mean that the Government can introduce those measure through secondary legislation . in turn , public body will be able legitimately to advance their own trade sanction in support of the national interest , as determine by the democratically elect Government . surely , that be welcome . this be precisely what will , I hope , happen shortly in relation to Russia . the Bill will inevitably generate much debate , but I restate its importance in protect the Government ' s foreign policy interest , the jewish community and the wellbeing of the many citizen who have grow tired of grandstand public body exploit the public purse and the money on which they depend . the Government will have my full support on this important matter . I listen carefully to the shadow spokesperson , who give a very reasonable speech . when the Bill go into Committee — I hope that it will go into Committee — all these different element should be examine carefully to make sure that we end up with a Bill which , I hope , can command the support of the overwhelming majority in the House . it be genuinely an honour to speak in this debate . there have be some incredible contribution , and I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Wigan ( Lisa Nandy ) for the way in which she recalibrate the tone of the debate . it get off to an appalling start , so I congratulate she on her tone and the way in which she have engage in discussion of this vex issue . this be a difficult bill . it be one of the most freedom - damage , human right - destroy piece of legislation that I have ever see . it be badly draft and ill thought - through . I take issue with the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) . the concept of try to correct an appalling Bill that can not be correct be not one that I share . that say , the Labour party have table a reasoned amendment , which rightly decline to give the Bill a second reading , and set out a compelling case as to why it should be give short shrift . I speak in favour and support of the powerful argument contain in the amendment . the Bill will , as we have hear , prevent public body from make decision to procure good or service , or invest or divest accord to their own ethical framework . local authority have long play an important role in the protection and promotion of human right overseas , for example , in oppose the apartheid regime in South Africa , as member have mention . the Bill will make the Westminster Government the ultimate arbiter of what be acceptable . as the reason amendment set out , the Bill be a clear and obvious fetter on the principle of devolution and on freedom of speech . by hamstring the due diligence that public body carry out , it will entirely disregard the european convention on human right . the Bill will be a disaster for the environment and the drive to net zero , by withdraw the freedom of public body to boycott country that pollute our environment . as for Palestine , which have be the subject of a lot of attention in this debate , the legal opinion of Richard Hermer KC , commission by Labour Front Benchers , state that " legislation prohibit local authority from take step to promote palestinian self - determination within the OPT , take with the term of the exclusion in Clause 3 ( 7 ) , would likely place the United Kingdom in breach of international law obligation . " labour ' s amendment point to the way in which that clause conflate the Occupied Palestinian Territories and the Golan height with the state of Israel , undermine the UK ' s long - stand cross - party position , and run contrary to UN Security Council resolution , specifically resolution 2334 . by single out the territory under Israel ' s control in this legislation , the UK will give licence to the continuation of the terrible event that unfold in Jenin today , without an appropriate , legitimate and peaceful response . no other people should be put in the position of the Palestinians . at this very moment , we be see the image from Jenin , where a massive number of israeli occupation force be commit what the palestinian president have call a " war crime " as they storm the city and refugee camp . they have kill at least nine Palestinians , include three child , and injure countless innocent civilian . over 180 Palestinians have be kill by israeli force since the beginning of 2023 — about one a day . at least 34 of those have be child . the destruction of school , home and life be be carry out with total impunity . how many time have we hear warm and ineffective word from Ministers at the Dispatch Box ? one wonder how such an attitude and policy would have play out in respect of South Africa . the Tory Government of the day deem the south african apartheid regime legal , and Nelson Mandela a terrorist . if that policy have succeed , he would have be leave to rot in jail . what have happen to any sense of a moral compass in our country ? have we forget the lesson of the anti - apartheid struggle in South Africa ? the Bill would make it an offence for someone from a public body to say that , if not for the legislative ban contain in the Bill , they would have choose to pursue some form of sanction . that have be rightly call a " Minority Report " provision and I know it worry many member across this House . the Bill be wholly incoherent , give how we have rightly impose sanction on Russia follow its illegal invasion and occupation of ukrainian territory . the Bill be simply wrong — an offence against human decency and international law . I will be exercise one of my human right , the freedom of expression and of conscience , by vote consistently against it at every stage . it be unworthy of this House and I have no doubt that history will judge it so . I urge member to support the reason amendment , but to reject the Bill in its entirety . I declare my interest as a vice - president of the Local Government Association and the co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on british Jews . I be privileged to represent a very diverse constituency with a large and established jewish population , and indeed many people from every possible religious background . it be great to see that , on the whole , those different community get on extremely well , but this legislation be necessary for the reason that many member have outline . as the hon . member for Wigan ( Lisa Nandy ) say , the long - stand BDS campaign create a situation where the state of Israel , and jewish people here in the UK and elsewhere , be single out for criticism and discrimination . however , like my neighbour and hon . friend , the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) , I will be vote for the legislation , have note a number of area in which improvement be require , which I hope we will be able to address in Committee . I will take each in turn . first , I urge Front - Bench colleague to give serious consideration to entirely drop clause 4 ( 1 ) ( b ) , which have raise a number of concern among member . in the context of local government , especially in respect of pension committee , a significant population of councillor be decision maker for the purpose of the legislation and , as an increase number of local authority — especially small one — move to the committee system , the constituency of member who would be consider decision maker for the purpose of the legislation get large and large . the hon . member for Caerphilly ( Wayne David ) will probably remember the late councillor Ray Davies : everywhere you turn , you would find he protest against something or chain himself to railing about something else . we can imagine a situation in which a back - bench member of a local authority call to attend a pension investment committee as a substitute member express the view that their preference would be to not make a particular decision because of concern about the behaviour of a particular government , and find themselves in breach of the law as a result . that would seem to have a chilling effect on freedom of speech . we should ensure that those who disagree with a policy be able to express that view while still make a decision that be within the law , as outline in clause 4 ( 1 ) ( a ) . the second piece of important context go to the point that be raise by the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) : we should give our local government colleague a degree of respect for their common sense in this matter . at the Local Government Association , it be my privilege to do some work on exactly this issue , work with the Local Government Friends of Israel — a very good organisation . through that process , we identify that , at the time , at most two or three council have pass BDS motion . we should accord respect to our local government colleague by remove clause 4 ( 1 ) ( b ) , recognise that , on the whole , they have be wise and sensible in exercise their power . the next issue be the way in which these power be exercise in respect of contractor and subcontractor . on , for example , an investment committee or a procurement committee charge with make decision to place contract , elect member may not necessarily be aware of the decision and policy of the body with which they be contract . it be not unusual for a local government pension committee to have 15 to 20 investment at any one give time . give that those private company may themselves be under similar pressure to exercise BDS view , what be not always go to be transparent to those elect member be how those thing be take effect in practice . we need to ensure that , in bring in what be intend to be about decision maker in public body , we be not lose our desire intention to ensure that BDS be not present in the public sector by ensure that those body that be contract or subcontracting be also within sight . again on my concern in respect of how these decision will affect elect member in local authority , the legislation envisage that it will apply where matter be in line with , or outside of , the policy of the Government . paragraph 9 of the explanatory note set out the example of where a specific legislative provision be introduce in respect of sanction against Russia follow the invasion of Ukraine . it be my view that when this legislation pass we need to be completely clear what we mean when we talk about the policy of the Government . do we mean as express in legislation ? do we mean as express by the Minister at the Dispatch Box ? what be it that we mean when we talk about the policy of the Government ? be it a policy of different Government Departments ? we need to make sure , give that it would be a breach of the law to express opposition to it , that the position from which the policy of the Government be draw be absolutely clear . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) , with his very pleasant reference to the late Ray Davies , who be a wonderful campaigner all his life . a truly appalling piece of legislation have be put before we . it fit into the big picture of anti - democratic legislation that this Government have put forward that reduce the right of free speech and assembly , over - empower the police , restrict trade union and try to criminalise people who seek a place of safety and asylum on our shore . we have to put it in that context ; it be yet another attack on the civil liberty of people in this country . over 70 organisation have express deep misgiving and opposition to the Bill . muslim organisation , jewish organisation , trade union , human right organisation , libertarian organisation , religious group and many other have say that the Bill be wrong and that it will damage the civil liberty of everyone in this country . it give massive power to the Secretary of State effectively to decide what local authority can say , think or do . if a local authority , for example , decide it want to speak up about human right in a country when a significant number of people from that country be live in its community — for example , there be a very large somali community in my constituency — would my local authority not be allow to say anything about Somalia under the Bill ? it would have to seek the permission of the Secretary of State before it could do anything , and so it go on ; there be so many other example . have be in this House since the 1980 , I sit through many debate about South Africa . there be many member over there on the Government Benches — many — who support the apartheid regime . they openly support the apartheid regime , call Mandela a terrorist and ask for the banning of the African National Congress in this country . the ANC have its office in my borough , and the South West Africa People ' s Organisation , which lead to the liberation of Namibia , have its office in my constituency . there be call to ban they and , when local authority such as Sheffield lead the way on local authority action and opposition to apartheid , they face sanction from the Government . why be they so concerned about it , other than to prevent any effective , peaceful show of loyalty and support to the people of South Africa who be face the horror of the apartheid regime ? under this legislation , what we do over South Africa would be impossible or illegal , so we would end up suspend councillor , prosecute local authority and surcharge councillor . I be not sure where it would lead . some of we support the people of Chile after General Pinochet seize power , and call for a boycott of chilean good and a non - investment policy in Chile ; again , that would be illegal . on a different basis , some of we call for a boycott of californian grape when californian grape picker be face oppression from police force in California ; again , that would be illegal . all the issue around the world that we be face with , such as Indonesia ' s behaviour in West Papua , the failure of Morocco to allow a referendum on the future of Western Sahara , Saudi Arabia and its war against Yemen — any expression of that would be ban by the Bill . a terrifying Bill have be put forward here today . Most of the Bill have be frame around Palestine and Israel . many group in Israel be frighten by the Bill and what go with it and also believe that there should be justice for the people of Palestine . I spend Saturday evening talk to Mustafa Barghouti of the Palestinian National Initiative , who believe in non - violent resistance to the occupation . he point out to I — I note the figure down as he be talk — that , at the moment on the west bank , there be 150 settlement , 70 more settlement be be plan or actually build at present , more than 400 , 000 israeli people have be move into those settlement and it be impossible for palestinian people to move around their own area of land . the idea that the product make on those settlement that be sell outside should be see as legitimate product — they be illegal within term of international law and within term of EU law . so I just ask that we understand the importance of the right of protest . today in Jenin , as an example of the occupation , 14 , 000 people be in a refugee camp that be less than 0 . 4 square kilometre — 14 , 000 people in less than half a square kilometre of land . Israel Defense Forces say that it be not target civilian . it be impossible to use any kind of weaponry against the population there without target civilian . More have die . More bitterness , more hatred and more problem come down the road . those people all around the world who want to support the palestinian people be not antisemitic . they be not anti - israeli group , but what they do want be justice for the palestinian people . that surely would be a much well and strong message to send out from this House today , rather than the attempt to close down free speech in this country . three decade ago , Margaret Thatcher say that the ANC be a " typical terrorist organisation " , add " anyone who think it be go to run the government in South Africa be live in cloud - cuckoo land " . history prove she wrong on that , but that history be shape by the determined effort of people worldwide , include million in this country and many local government , to boycott South Africa . the lesson be clear : government be not always right ; government do not always make moral decision ; government do not always act in line with the wish of the population , but through the democratic process , million of people can effect change . this Bill ignore that lesson . it shut down the freedom of people to exercise a key democratic right . it be just another example of this Government ' s anti - democratic crackdown , with restriction on the right to vote , the right to protest and the right to strike . labour ' s reason amendment , which decline to give the Bill a second reading and which I will be support , make the case clearly about the many deep flaw in the Bill , as do the shadow Secretary of State in her response . in summary , the Bill be a huge attack on the concept of ethical investment and procurement by prevent public body from be influence by " political or moral disapproval " of the action of any foreign state . the Government claim that boycott and divestment will still be possible , but just not where it " relate specifically or mainly to a particular foreign territory " . that simply do not wash . almost all case of company engage in human , labour or environmental abuse have a territorial element . if we be talk about divest in company that cut down the rainforest , for example , that activity will obviously take place in area with rainforest , and certain country would be target by campaign . this Bill even ban public body from say they would support such boycott be it legal to do so . it be a gagging Bill that breach freedom of speech and would prevent a local councillor in husting debate or other public forum from give their political view . this Bill also have chilling element in how it will be enforce , include potentially huge fine and far - reach information compliance notice . the aim be clear : to put so much fear into public body of end up in court that they do not just act within the law , but go beyond it in an effort to reduce that risk . as legal advice provide to the Labour party make clear , this Bill would be likely to place the UK " in breach of international law obligation " and " effectively equate the occupy Palestinian Territories with Israel itself and be very difficult to reconcile with the long - stand position of the United Kingdom which support a ' two - state solution ' base on ' 1967 line ' in which the security and right to self - determination of both Israelis and Palestinians be protect . " I be afraid that I do not have any faith in the exemption list in the Bill at schedule 3 . just as apartheid be legal in South Africa , much environmental destruction take place entirely legally . the very fact that something be illegal be often the rationale for a boycott and divestment campaign in the first place . many people in the discussion today and around this Bill have mention boycott — not just those relate to illegal settlement in the Occupied Palestinian Territories , where we have see terrible scene today in Jenin , but arm boycott against Saudi Arabia over its war crime in Yemen , boycott in Colombia over its past treatment of trade unionist , and commercial boycotts of good relate to the treatment of the Uyghurs in China or the Rohingya in Myanmar . it be not for we to decide which country people be allow to boycott — that be a huge curtailment of basic freedom . we need to maintain the democratic right of people to challenge Government policy through boycott and divestment , if that be their wish . to conclude , the Bill have face widespread civil society opposition , include from the Quakers and the Methodists , the Muslim Association of Britain , Friends of the Earth , the Union of jewish Students , the TUC , unite the union , Unison and the director of 14 israeli civil society and human right organisation , as well as Human Rights Watch , Liberty and Amnesty , whose own legal ruling suggest that the Bill would be illegal . not all those group support boycott , but they do support the right for people to boycott . that be what we be vote on today . we can not allow the Government to scrap this cherish democratic right . reference have be make to Bob Kerslake consistently throughout today . Bob and I be friend . I go back long than most , because I go back to 1981 , when I be a young man and a GLC councillor and Bob be a young man and a GLC officer . I fully concur with all the tribute that have be pay , but I also want to say that he be a good man . he be a very good person and a good friend , and we will miss he . let I come on to this debate . I do not want to repeat some of the argument , but I want to get on record for my constituent why I be vote the way I be this evening . I will vote in solidarity with the amendment , and I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Wigan ( Lisa Nandy ) on her speech , but I will also be vote against the Bill , because I can not do anything else . the debate have largely focus on the specific BDS movement and Israel . just to follow my hon . friend the Member for Leeds East ( Richard Burgon ) , I want to talk about the right to boycott , to disinvest and to sanction as an issue . at the weekend I draft an article , because I want to get clear in my own mind the whole issue around boycotts and the past history of the boycott , disinvestment and sanction movement . to be frank , virtually all of my life I have be involve in some boycott , disinvestment or sanction campaign , so it be almost like a flashback . like my right hon . friend the Member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) , I be outside the south african embassy when the City of London anti - apartheid group be on a 24 - hour permanent picket . I be arrest there . he be arrest ; I be not . I be there on Christmas day simply singe carol . you get off lightly . I get off lightly . all we be singe for be the release of Nelson Mandela . for the other one , I plead guilty . I be one of the organiser of the demonstration over a decade ago against the royal visit of the saudi leader . we be call for no public contract to be award to company operate in Saudi Arabia , because at that time they be behead gay people for be gay . that be later focus on military support from this country for the saudi attack on Yemen . the list of BDS campaign that I have support go on and on . I campaign against the Bahraini regime and its ongoing brutal repression of the country ' s democratic movement , and the continued imprisonment of opposition political leader . we have meet some of they over the year , and they be still inside . I have campaign against the Sri Lankan Administration owe to their genocidal attack on the Tamils , with their continue abuse of human right , their use of torture , the disappearance , and the colonisation of Tamil homeland . again , I have lose constituent who have be disappear when they have go out there . I campaign for sanction against the military junta in Myanmar to halt the attack on the Rohingyas and to demand the freedom of Aung San Suu Kyi . yes , I have support the boycott of good come from the palestinian territory occupy illegally by Israel . the campaign in my constituency be undertake by young people when the bombing in Gaza be kill young people there . in solidarity , young people in my constituency go round the local shop ask they to check where their good be come from and urge they not to sell good from the occupy territory . there have be some reference to BDS campaign be associate with antisemitism . that be not what I have witness in my constituency , but if there be evidence that individual associate with these campaign be antisemitic , we already have law to deal with that , and I believe that the full force of the law against racist behaviour should therefore be deploy . more recently , I have call for sanction against the Chinese Government for the barbaric treatment of the Uyghurs , and also because they have imprison a group of my Unite trade union friend who work with I on the British Airways campaign . all they be demand be adherence to democracy by the Chinese , and they have be inside for two and a half year , without any form of access to their family in many instance . the common factor in all those campaign be that they would not have be support by government policy . therefore , they would have be render illegal in their demand for action by public authority to boycott , disinvest and sanction . I agree with the hon . member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) that there need to be clarity about who be make foreign policy and what be be refer to , because actually the Bill make the Secretary of State ex cathedra — infallible — and put at his whim decision about what be right and what be wrong across the globe , when government in this country have consistently get it significantly wrong . they have certainly not back such campaign and would have outlaw they overall . all those campaign have focus on press for action from Government , local council , pension fund , private company and investor . it be interesting that a few hon . member have mention the focus on the local government pension fund . I declare an interest as a member of the local government pension fund , and I think it be up to member of the fund to determine its investment policy . I must say , as a constituency MP , that the campaign have reflect the diversity of my constituency . there be not a campaign that have not involve a constituent or group of constituent or have not be ask for by my constituent . it be a matter of stand in solidarity . the advice of every human right lawyer I have speak to so far , and all the briefing from human right group and trade unionist , have all make it clear that that range of activity will be outlaw and it will be make illegal for decision maker even to talk about the strategy . that be why I oppose the Bill . I be vote against it because we have hear today , right across the House , that not a single clause have stand up to scrutiny . therefore , I do not believe it can be amend ; it be fundamentally flawed and should be defeat . let I make one final point , as an aside . we should change the Standing Orders or look at " Erskine May " , because it would have be useful if the Secretary of State come here to present the Bill have actually read it or address the same Bill that we be address in this debate . all we see today be a diatribe of the low politic we have see for a long time , which divide our community unnecessarily and , to be frank , appallingly . let I be absolutely clear that the Bill before this House , which should be reject , be not just bad and unworkable but fundamentally flawed and dangerous . hon . member across the House have rightly state that it do not just prevent public body such as local council involve themselves in foreign policy — as the Government innocently declare — but meddle in the autonomy of local government pension scheme to make the good investment decision , and swing a wreck ball through the UK ' s obligation to respect international law and countless United Nations resolution . the Bill undermine the ability of public body and civic society to divest from those who be harm our environment and drive climate change . it provide the Government with unprecedented and deeply alarming power of enforcement that curtail freedom of expression and democracy by gag public body that have the audacity to speak and act on their conscience . it force public body and civic society to kneel , against their own moral conviction , to the Secretary of State ' s foreign policy . most alarmingly , by prevent public body from adopt position that deviate from this Government ' s foreign policy of turn a blind eye to persecution , oppression and injustice in other country , the Bill quash the ability of those individual , public body and member of civic society with any sense of humanity to take a stand against human right abuse , at a time of rapid increase in those abuse right across the world . each of those reason alone be enough to bin the Bill but , take together , they make it not only one of the most far - reach and dangerous piece of legislation this Government have ever seek to make law , but one of the most repressive . that be why it must be strike down today . as point out by hon . member across the House , the Bill directly contradict decade of establish UK foreign policy on illegal israeli settlement build on occupy land . it be astounding that it have to be repeat in this Chamber time and again that settlement in the occupied Palestinian Territories be illegal under international law . why do the Bill not recognise that international position ? instead of introduce legislation to Parliament that provide cover to the Netanyahu Government ' s illegal annexation of palestinian territory , Ministers must decide whether they agree with the establish position of the rest of the international community that the settlement and the israeli Government ' s repeat disregard for international law be illegal . as hon . member have state , the Bill as it currently stand be in direct contravention of not just international law but United Nations resolution . many of we fear the anti - democratic precedent the Bill will set . effectively , if a human right campaign do not enjoy the support of the Government , it will be criminalise for attempt to bring abuse to light . the Uyghurs in Xinjiang , the Rohingya in Burma , the Palestinians in the occupied Palestinian Territories and the Kashmiris in Indian - occupy Kashmir — member of those community , many of whom be resident in my constituency , have now have their fear double . not only be they witness numerous human right abuse in their country of origin , they be now be silence here , too . indeed , until just recently the UK Government refuse to approve sanction against the burmese military despite the horrific genocidal campaign it wage against the Rohingya , with minister declare that they do not want to unbalance what exist of Burma ' s democratic Government . instead , it be leave to other organisation and group to lead the resistance against a genocide take place while the UK Government look on . the Government be in a well place on that issue today , but we be still leave with the question of what happen if there be a return to the same form of democratic Government in Burma that exist before and which allow the Rohingya genocide to take place . it be clear that Ministers will lift sanction and force local authority to do the same through the Bill , leave the perpetrator of genocide able to escape justice and accountability for their grave crime against humanity . the impact the Bill will have on human right in Indian - occupy Kashmir , where Kashmiris continue to face persecution , oppression and injustice be even more alarming , because it be in this region that UK foreign policy under this Tory Government be not only most unreliable but most spineless . even as the indian Government blatantly engage in violent , physical and psychological suppression of any resistance to the military occupation , however peaceful it may be , and seek to deter further opposition to their brutal rule by make an example of campaigner such as Yasin Malik , whose execution indian prosecutor be now seek , all the UK Government remain focused on be secure a trade deal with the right - wing Modi Government before the next general election . they could not even bring themselves to object to and boycott , as other country do , the shameful decision to hold the G20 culture working group summit last month in Srinagar . in the absence of the UK Government step up to fulfil their historic , moral and international obligation to the region , it be once again leave to local council and public body to do what they can to protect human right in Indian - occupy Kashmir by refuse to engage with those whose hand be stain with the blood of Kashmiris . yet under the Bill the Government will put a stop to that and force public body to be party to human right abuse because they think it be in the UK ' s good foreign policy interest . this rotten , unworkable and dangerous Bill be an alarming overreach of Government power that break the UK ' s international obligation and undermine effort to protect our environment and fight climate change . it protect human right abuser in countless nation and gag democratically elect local representative . we can not pick and choose which human right abuse to act on and which to turn a blind eye to . let I be clear : human right be a universal obligation and a universal right . it be time the UK Government accept that . I will therefore be stand up , as I always have do , for democracy , for our environment and for human right by vote for today ' s amendment that will reject the Bill . on first read the Bill , memory of my childhood come flood back , when my family and I be very heavily involve in the South Africa anti - apartheid movement in Wales . that campaign deploy a range of campaign method , include boycott , divestment and sanction , and lobby local council to divest and use sanction against South Africa . we campaign and succeed in stop a local choir from tour South Africa , as well as boycott good . that be some of my formative political campaigning . it be legitimate , proportionate and all about challenging racism . it inform I on why I must oppose the Bill in its entirety . this Bill be the late example of the shrink space for freedom of expression in the UK , follow the passage of the Elections Act 2022 , the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 and the Public Order Act 2023 , and the continued progress of the Strikes ( Minimum Service Levels ) Bill . today ' s Bill be an attack on democracy and ride roughshod over democratically elect representative at a local , regional and devolved level . it be the epitome of cancel culture that the right - wing culture warrior on the conservative Benches complain about so bitterly . it really do , as other have say , contain a direct threat to freedom of speech by bar public authority from take action and , indeed , from even make statement of policy . the Bill will assist the suppression of campaign for justice and accountability across the globe on issue as wide ranging as pollution , the environment , exploitation of child and woman , and fossil fuel divestment — the list go on . I and other who have speak out against this Bill be not alone in oppose it . a wide range of human right organisation , lawyer , trade union , charity , non - governmental organisation , faith group , climate justice group and cultural organisation share our concern . and all of those would rightly reject the use of boycott tactic be use to stoke racism or antisemitism . the Bill , as have be say , undermine elect local council and regional Mayors by not allow they to make decision that they have be democratically elect to make . it also clearly and definitely undermine the devolve settlement . what consultation have be carry out with the Welsh Government and the other devolve nation ? how will the Bill impact on the devolved nation ' procurement policy , which be currently be pursue and be ethical and have human right consideration at their heart ? it have already be highlight how this Bill , while give the Government broad - brush power to prevent criticism of any state Government , uniquely privilege Israel . that be despite its repeat and escalate human right abuse in the west bank and Gaza , and , as we be witness today , the horrific and heartbreaking event in Jenin . despite assertion that foreign policy be unchanged , for the first time a piece of british legislation will require Israel and the territory it illegally occupy to be treat in the same way , depart from decade of international consensus on the illegality of settlement . there be a proud record of the use of boycott in progressive struggle — from the sugar boycott of slavery abolitionist in the 18th and 19th century , to the anti - apartheid boycotts of South Africa , divestment from fossil fuel company and action against the russian invasion of Ukraine . Boycotts have be use legitimately , proportionately and often successfully to peacefully put political , economic or cultural pressure on a regime , institution or company to force it to change abusive , discriminatory or illegal policy . they have historically be anti - racist campaign , and I believe that they must and will continue in the future . I want to finish with a quote from Nelson Mandela , who come to Cardiff in 1998 : " when the call for international isolation of the force of apartheid go out to the world , the people of Wales respond magnificently . the knowledge that local authority all over Wales be ban apartheid product from canteen and school … be a great inspiration to we in our struggle . " I believe that he too would have say that those oppose this Bill in its entirety be on the right side of history . that be why I support the Labour Front - Bench position to decline a second reading , and as a matter of conscience I must oppose the Bill in its entirety . Diolch yn fawr . it have be a joy to hear the different opinion express in the Chamber today , both from those in favour of the Bill and from those against it . I have to say to my good friend , as I call they , sit near I in the Chamber that my opinion differ from theirs , but that will not be a big surprise to they . I be a well - know friend of Israel , and I make no apology for register my interest and my support . have say that , I know that it will — again — come as no surprise to any member that I support the Bill , and , indeed , I say as much to the Secretary of State in an intervention early . the anti - israel sentiment that flourish in the absence of legislation must be address . I know that some member who be present believe that the principle of boycotting have be use effectively for year , recall the boycott of german good , and I know of many a person who have boycott a company in opposition to a decision or policy in that company . however , it be not the job of university or other Government - fund body to make the decision to boycott for a political reason without an outright decision in this place , which be why the Bill be before we tonight . while some may also believe that only a principle be be debate today , the fact be that there be an active boycott against Israel in some political circle , and it do have an effect . let I give some example from Northern Ireland . in 2014 , the Sinn F é in mayor of what be then Newry and Mourne Council write to shopkeeper in the council district require they to inform he about all the israeli good that they stock . in his capacity as mayor , he tell local business in Newry that unless they immediately withdraw israeli good from sale , they be give " financial support , succour and legitimacy " to " apartheid " and racism . well , no , they be not . those receive the letter from the mayor — local shopkeeper and business people — understandably feel target , and some say that the letter strike they as deeply sinister , intimidate and extremely divisive . this boycott be clearly racially motivated , which be underline by debate take place on the Israel issue . in a Belfast City Council debate on Israel in 2019 , Israel be present by nationalist and marxist councillor as a unique evil in the world , require unique measure to be take against it . People before Profit councillor refer to Israel ' s establishment and existence as a racist endeavour . well , no , it be not , but they say that it be . the reality of any conflict in the middle east be deny ; it be only their perceive jewish oppression of Arabs . concern express about grow antisemitism be shamelessly deflect and ridicule ; it be just a deliberate tactic to silence criticism of Israel . it be suggest by some councillor that only Jews who hold anti - zionist position deserve the council ' s solidarity , a view that be perpetuate by the boycott of israeli good on a global scale in which this nation have be a silent partner for so long . that be why the Bill be so important . let I be clear : Israel ' s existence and survival be vital to many in our jewish community as a matter of their core identity , religious faith , family connection and sense of physical safety and security . criticism of an israeli Government or policy be one thing ; demonisation of Israel as a unique evil , along with demand for the jewish state ' s elimination from the face of the earth , be quite another . demonisation , boycott and expulsion direct against the world ' s only jewish state do not sit well with I or with my colleague , and , indeed , should not sit well with any member of this House . local authority in Northern Ireland , as elsewhere , should be work hard to support diversity and good relation , not isolate and undermine one of our small and much - cherish community . recently , a media outlet in Northern Ireland publish a letter from a self - style interfaith group identify the leadership of Ireland ' s tiny jewish community with genocide and apartheid in the middle east . well , no , they do not do that . the letter call on the 80 Jews in Belfast to support their " moderate " aim of bring down the zionist regime . to put it starkly , this be where the so - call BDS campaign will lead if it be never properly call out and challenge : it will lead to the targeting and isolation of not just the jewish state , but those of we — and I be one — who consider ourselves friend of Israel , include many member of our jewish community . let I give some more example in the last couple of minute available to I . family business in Northern Ireland , such as Wilson ' s Country Ltd , be subject to a vicious attack on social medium because they stock israeli new potato . an israeli - own stall at CastleCourt in Belfast be regularly physically attack , and its staff intimidate . some of these attack be so serious that they lead to custodial sentence . the stall be force to close and have never return . staff at the Linen Hall library in Belfast complain of online bullying after it host an event celebrate the centenary of Chaim Herzog ' s birth in Belfast . library staff be harangue . during the conflict in the middle east , Belfast ' s synagogue have its window smash and the community ' s rabbi receive threat and need escort to and from the synagogue . the community have frequently be target by online abuse . a County Tyrone sport personality with an online following tweet , " if you ' re lucky enough to know a Jew , punch he in the face . " the psni be investigate . pubgoer in the Bogside be record by an undercover israeli reporter tell he , " Jews be the scum of the earth . Hitler didn ' t kill enough of they . " the psni be investigate . there be call to cancel a friendly football match between Northern Ireland and Israel . the israeli national team be more diverse than any other team in the world , because it include Jews , Muslims and Christians . again , the line of abuse be incredible . my last example be from 2016 , when Derry City and Strabane District Council claim to be the first local authority in Northern Ireland to pass a motion boycott israeli good . in 2018 , the same council vote that to have a friend of Israel representative speak to the council to put their side of the case would be a disgrace to the city . it do not want to hear the other side of the argument . the voice of freedom and free speech be not hear . I will not be side with the threat of expulsion , boycott and isolation . I therefore welcome this Bill , which will prevent our local authority from be abuse in this extreme and divisive manner . we in Northern Ireland have see more of that than most . it be a pleasure to close this challenging but important debate on behalf of the Opposition . the debate have cover Britain ' s place in the world , freedom of speech , human right , genocide and a whole range of other important topic . at the heart of the debate lie a central question : do the Bill balance legitimate , strongly hold and well - mean desire to challenge behaviour overseas on principled ground against important protection for particular nation or region in the face of disproportionate treatment ? I be afraid the answer be no . we believe there should be legislation to frame boycott and divestment - type activity — legislation that allow community to decide where their money go — in response to human right or genocide concern , while ensure such decision be make equitably and consistently so that the world ' s only jewish state , for example , be not single out and target . this be consistent with our long - hold stance against the boycott , divestment and sanction campaign against Israel . colleague can have confidence that we believe in such framing legislation , because the shadow Secretary of State , my hon . friend the Member for Wigan ( Lisa Nandy ) , and I table such amendment to the Procurement Bill in Committee , some month ago , and on Report . the amendment be reject by the Government , but the Bill table in their stead , the Bill before we , be considerably bad than the option we offer . my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Selly Oak ( Steve McCabe ) call the Bill a " dog ' s dinner . " he be generally not a man to disappoint , but his sentiment be one of disappointment , which be echo in the remarkable contribution of my right hon . friend the Member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) , who speak of the frustration of those , include the hon . member for Birmingham , Selly Oak , who want to see legislation that the House can unite behind . we do not have that currently . there have be a range of other excellent contribution . the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , the hon . member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) , reference clause 3 ( 7 ) , as do my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) and the hon . member for Meon Valley ( Mrs Drummond ) . this subsection break the distinction between the state of Israel and the occupy territory , which be a significant change in Government policy , and it ask significant question about our compliance with UN resolution . the Minister must account for that change of policy and assuage some of those concern in she sum up . the right hon . member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland ( Sir Simon Clarke ) and for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) say that foreign policy matter of this nature be not for local decision maker . well , we do not think that be right . my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Central ( Paul Blomfield ) make a very strong argument about how it have work and be effective in his community in the past . in a bold argument , the hon . member for Edinburgh East ( Tommy Sheppard ) rightly say that it be our community ' money . I , like many colleague , be a member of the local government pension scheme — that be our money ; and I be a council tax payer — that be our money . it be not unreasonable that we might want to have a say in how it be spend . this Bill be anti - democratic and anti - human right . it frustrate peace effort in the middle east and it be an obstacle to social justice everywhere . as such , it have be condemn by a huge range of civil society organisation , include trade union , charity and faith organisation . do my hon . friend agree with they and with I that for those reason the Bill must not receive a second reading ? yes , I think that what have be strike be that colleague who come at this from very different place and party have reach that conclusion of the inadequacy of this legislation . I hope the Government will reflect on that . the hon . member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) ask what our alternative be . the hon . member for Gloucester ( Richard Graham ) make a powerful contribution , but I slightly challenge his suggestion that we be say that we should rip this up in an unspecified way . that be not the point we be make . we be say that we table an amendment to the Procurement Bill that we think be well . if the Government think it be technically inadequate , we would be happy to work with they to improve it . what we do know be that it be much well than what be before we today . my hon . friend the Members for Middlesbrough ( Andy McDonald ) and for Cynon Valley ( Beth Winter ) make important point about what this Bill do to the devolve regional and national settlement — it challenge and press they greatly . the right hon . member for Preseli Pembrokeshire ( Stephen Crabb ) and the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) and for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) make powerful anti - BDS case . I hope the position that my hon . friend the Member for Wigan ( Lisa Nandy ) and I have take on that assuage some concern . my hon . friend the Member for Strangford be my friend and we should always be honest with our friend , so let I say that he have do peerless work in this place on tackle the persecution of Christians abroad and he should have real concern about how this legislation would fetter such activity in the future . I will cover some more of the contribution as I get through the rest of my point , but certain concern must be address by the Minister in her closing remark . first , which of the two possible reading of clause 1 do the Government intend ? do the " territorial consideration " provision mean that not wish to procure from Xinjiang be unacceptable but that not wish to procure from the entire nation of China would be acceptable ? or do it mean that all action of all foreign government be beyond the scope of local decision maker ? how , at this stage , can it be satisfactory that there be ambiguity ? as we have hear , this be legislation that will head straight to the court . secondly , to accept clause 3 be to exalt the Secretary of State ahead of any other public representative , as my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) say . it be to set aside the mandate of the Mayor of the West Midlands , the Mayor of Greater Manchester or of the leader of council in favour of the Secretary of State . it be to give that person , whoever they may be , sole arbitration of human right abuse , of genocide . that should give all of we pause , but it be worsen by clause 4 , the gagging clause , which my hon . friend the Members for Sunderland Central ( Julie Elliott ) , for Liverpool , Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) , for Leeds East ( Richard Burgon ) — we hear a powerful and compelling contribution from my neighbour , my right hon . friend the Member for Barking , about pernicious political thinking behind this Bill . do my hon . friend agree that that have happen multiple time ? we be talk about a smackdown on democracy . we have the so - call " gag Bill " , which be about gag charity and become the Transparency of Lobbying , Non - Party Campaigning and Trade Union Administration Act 2014 ; in 2016 , we have the wrapping up of trade union in even more red tape ; and , recently , we have have more attack on trade union and the right to protest . be the Government not crush dissent on the part of any organisation or body that want to challenge they ? I be grateful for that intervention . my hon . friend almost read to the end of my paragraph , so I will address that point presently . the point on gag clause be also make by my hon . friend the Members for Leeds East and for Bradford East ( Imran Hussain ) , and the hon . member for Reigate ( Crispin Blunt ) and for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) . the Bill mean that not only do the judgment of the Secretary of State supersede any and all local leader , but the Government seek to ensure that those leader be not even allow to talk about their desire to challenge human right abuse or not to consume settlement good . the Government be take away not only the right to act , but the ability to speak . as my hon . friend the Member for Ilford South ( Sam Tarry ) say , that be consistent with a legislative programme design to whittle away at the civic space , with the Trade Union Act 2016 , the 2014 Act , the Public Order Act 2023 and more . what we have in front of we be an unacceptable fetter on free expression . separately , but no less importantly , the Bill will , as the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) say , have consequence for billion of pound in local government pension fund . any hard deadline that be impose on they to change their operation in accordance with new law could be deeply destabilising , and the Minister ought to talk about how much she have look into that impact . we know that at the moment a pension fund make a divestment decision on a financial ground that relate to territory name in the Bill , that decision will be challenge in the court as a moral judgment . that will bind up our pension fund in court case after court case . let I turn to an issue that have have little airing in the debate so far and will have a lot more to run . through clause 7 , the Bill permit extraordinary power to compel information — power that demolish long - hold legal privilege . it be not proportionate to hand to the Secretary of State even strong power to compel information from public body than the security service have . surely the Government see the unsustainability of that position . as detail by Labour and other colleague , these be weighty concern that make the Bill unacceptable in its current form . but there be an alternative , as cover in our reason amendment . our country have a proud history in the development of modern international humanitarian law , from the ashe of world war two to the creation of the United Nations and the role that we continue to play on the world stage . we have always defend the fundamental and inalienable right of all human being . it be vital that procurement decision make in respect of such right be then apply across the board to prevent unethical action against specific state and to ensure that common action have the great impact . that could be readily achieve by require public body to produce a document that set out their policy on procurement and human right , and for that to be develop in accordance with guidance publish by the Secretary of State . that would ensure consistency in how contracting authority decide on such matter . what would that suggestion mean in practice ? the practical effect would be to make it clear and unambiguous that if a public body do not wish to procure good from Russia because of President Putin ' s abhorrent human right abuse in Ukraine , the law will be on its side . if that same body do not wish to procure service from Xinjiang because of the appalling treatment of Uyghur Muslims , the law will be on its side . but if a public body act only against a particular state — let we say the world ' s only jewish state — while turn a blind eye to human right abuse elsewhere , such action would be illegal . we offer this workable solution to the Government and I hope the Minister pick it up . if colleague do not hear that in the Minister ' s response , I encourage they to vote in favour of the reason amendment table in my name and the name of my right hon . and hon . friend . I thank member from throughout the House for their impassioned and heartfelt contribution . let I remind the House why we have introduce this legislation : we believe that we should have one foreign policy , and we also believe that BDS campaign risk undermine community cohesion . we believe that public body should not be waste time and money on pursue their own foreign policy agenda and should instead focus on provide vital public service and deliver value for money for the taxpayer in their procurement and investment decision . let I also clarify certain misapprehension that certain member have about the Bill . first , the Bill apply only to public authority . it do not apply to private individual or private company , except if they be exercise public function . it do not place restriction on local councillor , except when they talk expressly on the behalf of their local authority . it do not prevent public authority from make statement on foreign policy ; it prevent they only from make a procurement or investment decision if it be motivate by moral or political disapproval of a foreign state ' s conduct . many member have mention clause 4 . I reassure member that clause 4 only prevent public authority from make statement of intent to boycott or divest . it do not prevent public body from disagree with this legislation . the Bill do not ban ethical , religious or socially conscious fund , so , for instance , climate change fund can continue with the Bill unless there be issue that be country - specific . a number of Members mention clause 3 ( 7 ) . I want to clarify the role of the clause . the Bill apply equally to all country . country can be exempt from the ban by secondary legislation , which be what we be plan to do with Russia and Belarus — [ interruption . ] order . this have be a very good - natured and difficult debate . it have be hold with disagreement , but courtesy across the House . People have now come into the Chamber who have not be here during the debate and it be most discourteous of they now to make so much noise that we can not hear the Minister . that be bad behaviour and it be bad for the way in which we do thing in here , especially on a day when we have have a very well - construct and conduct debate . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . give the focus of the BDS campaign on Israel , we be simply say in this clause that , for Israel to be exempt from the legislation , it will require primary legislation . I want to make that very clear . this policy do not affect our foreign policy position . we be not legislate for the UK ' s foreign policy on Israel or on any other country in the Bill . the purpose of the Bill be to ensure a consistent approach to foreign policy across our public body , lead by the UK Government . the Bill will not prevent the UK Government from impose sanction , or otherwise change our foreign policy on any country in future . I stress that none of the provision in the Bill change the UK ' s position on israeli settlement in the west bank and the Golan Heights . we be continue to urge Israel not to take step that move we away from our share goal of peace and security . we support a negotiate settlement lead to a safe and secure Israel live alongside a viable and sovereign palestinian state , base on 1967 border with agree land swap , Jerusalem as the share capital of both state and a just , fair and realistic settlement for refugee . furthermore , our position on settlement be clear : they be illegal under international law ; present an obstacle to peace ; and threaten the physical viability of a two - state solution . our position be reflect in our continued support for UN Security Council resolution 2334 , with which the Bill be compliant . what the Minister say be not really what be reflect in the Bill because a specific exemption be give not just to Israel , in what should be a country - agnostic Bill — just like our manifesto commitment — but to two part of Israel which we do not recognise as part of Israel under international law . therefore , there be specifically an exemption for Israel . do she agree — the Secretary of State say early that he would listen very carefully to suggest amendment — that this be something that need to be work on during the Bill Committee ? UN Security Council resolution 2334 ask country to differentiate between Israel and the occupy territory . we have do that in this clause ; they be clearly separate out in different paragraph . however , as the Secretary of State say in his opening remark , we be open to any discussion on the Bill and of course we want the good legislation here . rise — I be very conscious that , in the interest of time , I only have a few minute . my hon . friend know the incredibly high esteem I hold she in , but it just be not credible to keep repeat that this do not change how we treat the Golan Heights , which have be annex , and the occupied Palestinian Territories . the Foreign Office ' s own legal advice state that the Bill could breach UNSC 2334 . how be I be tell repeatedly from the Dispatch Box that that be not the case , when that be what government lawyer be say themselves ? we have a responsibility to uphold that resolution . we draft this legislation and therefore we need to remove clause 3 ( 7 ) . we on these back Benches have offer a landing platform to the government : " remove that clause . you can still do this . " but please do not repeat that this do not change anything when the Government lawyer themselves say it do . the Government ' s view be that the Bill be compliant with UN Security Council resolution 2334 . I move on to the reason amendment , which rightly recognise the impact that boycotts and divestment campaign can have on undermine community cohesion . the Government , however , be resist the amendment on the basis that this legislation be a robust and proportionate mean of stop public body engage in divisive campaign and of fulfil our 2019 manifesto commitment . the amendment refer specifically to the Uyghur Muslims . this Government be concerned about the issue of Uyghur force labour in supply chain and be take robust action . the exception in this Bill , alongside the exclusion ground in the Procurement Bill , will keep supplier involve in labour market misconduct , include human trafficking and modern slavery , no matter where they be in the world , out of public sector supply chain . we have already discuss the point on the occupy territory and the Golan Heights . the amendment claim that this Bill limit freedom of speech , but that be not the case . private individual and body be not affect by the legislation . the right to freedom of speech be protect by article 10 of the european convention on human right and the Government remain strongly committed to the UK ' s long and proud tradition of freedom of speech . the amendment also criticise the power give to the Secretary of State to enforce this ban . far from be the unprecedented power claim , they be model on exist power of regulator such as the Office for Students and the Pensions Regulator . it would simply not be logical to impose a ban with a toothless enforcement regime . this legislation deliver an important manifesto commitment . it will ensure that the UK have a consistent foreign policy approach and speak with one voice internationally . I look forward to work with hon . member throughout the Bill ' s passage to deliver this important legislation and to continue engagement on the issue that hon . member have raise in the House today . I commend the Bill to the House . question put , that the amendment be make . Debbie Abrahams Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Clive Betts Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Crispin Blunt Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Dan Carden Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Imran Hussain Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Clive Lewis David Linden Tony Lloyd Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kirsten Oswald Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Rachel Reeves Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Chris Stephens Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart William Wragg Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Tonia Antoniazzi Mary Glindon Bim Afolami Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bone Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Conor Burns Alun Cairns Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Michelle Donelan Steve Double Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Luke Evans Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer Mike Freer Louie french Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Michael Gove Richard Graham Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alok Sharma David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Jane Stevenson Iain Stewart Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Joy Morrissey Mike Wood the House divide : ayes 212 , Noes 272 . question accordingly negative . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 62 ( 2 ) ) , that the Bill be now read a second time . Bim Afolami Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bone Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Conor Burns Alun Cairns Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Michelle Donelan Steve Double James Duddridge David Duguid Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Luke Evans Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer Mike Freer Louie french Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Michael Gove Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alok Sharma David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Jane Stevenson Iain Stewart Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Joy Morrissey Mike Wood Hannah Bardell Apsana Begum Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Crispin Blunt Steven Bonnar Alan Brown Dawn Butler Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Wendy Chamberlain Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Martyn Day Martin Docherty Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Tim Farron Stephen Farry Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Sarah Green Claire Hanna Drew Hendry Wera Hobhouse Stewart Hosie Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law David Linden Caroline Lucas Kenny MacAskill John McNally Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Anne McLaughlin Ian Mearns Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Helen Morgan Grahame Morris Gavin Newlands John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Kirsten Oswald Anum Qaisar Liz Saville - Roberts Tommy Sheppard Chris Stephens Richard Thomson Claudia Webbe Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart William Wragg Marion Fellows Peter Grant the House divide : Ayes 268 , Noes 70 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read a second time . economic Activity of Public Bodies ( Overseas Matters ) Bill ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Economic Activity of Public Bodies ( Overseas Matters ) bill : Committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Public Bill Committee ( 2 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on Thursday 14 September 2023 . ( 3 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . consideration and Third Reading ( 4 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which those proceeding be commence . ( 5 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding on consideration and Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Scott Mann . ) question agree to . economic Activity of Public Bodies ( Overseas Matters ) Bill ( money ) king ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Economic Activity of Public Bodies ( Overseas Matters ) Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of : ( a ) any expenditure incur under the Act by the Secretary of State or by the Treasury ; and ( b ) any increase attributable to the Act in the sum payable under or by virtue of any other Act out of money so provide . — ( Scott Mann . ) question agree to . business without Debate Deferred Divisions Ordered , that , at this day ' s sit , Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply to the Motion in the name of Secretary Michael Gove relate to Economic Activity of Public Bodies ( Overseas Matters ) bill : carry - Over . — ( Scott Mann . ) economic Activity of Public Bodies ( Overseas Matters ) Bill ( carry - over ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 80a ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that if , at the conclusion of this Session of Parliament , proceeding on the Economic Activity of Public Bodies ( Overseas Matters ) Bill have not be complete , they shall be resume in the next Session . — ( Scott Mann . ) question agree to . delegate Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , exit the European Union that the draft Healthcare ( International Arrangements ) ( EU Exit ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 5 June , be approve . International Immunities and Privileges that the draft International Atomic Energy Agency ( Immunities and Privileges ) ( amendment ) Order 2023 , which be lay before this House on 5 June , be approve . — ( Scott Mann . ) question agree to . crime and Antisocial Behaviour : West London Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Scott Mann . ) it be a pleasure to lead this debate on crime and antisocial behaviour in west London . I be pleased that this debate come so soon after my most recent crime survey for resident . we have more than 300 response this time , and the result be sadly more shocking , more worrying and more concerning than those from our last survey in 2019 . while the title of the debate cover west London , I know that the experience and challenge we face in my constituency be feel across London and the whole of England . I want to discuss four central theme today : my constituent ' own experience with crime , base mainly on my recent constituent crime survey ; the response of the Metropolitan police ; the response of the Government ; and , finally , what we can and should do to tackle crime and keep people safe . I could have start this debate by reel off a long list of figure and statistic about crime and policing , but I will not . debate about crime be not abstract . it be not a line on a bar chart , but so much more . it be often a life shatter , confidence take away and a hole leave behind . take one constituent who contact I after a string of car theft outside their home . they tell I : " we be scared to walk outside alone , we be scared to wear a watch , we be scared for the safety of our child . " that be what crime do . crime have an acidic and poisonous impact on community , whether that be car be violently steal outside of house , home be break into , schoolchildren be mug at knifepoint or young people afraid of get involved and be suck into gang activity . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure the debate . do she agree that it be a wake - up call when child tell their mum they be afraid to walk home through the high street after school ? that be take away their childhood . my hon . friend be absolutely right . child be afraid of be the victim of crime . they be also afraid of the gang . too many parent and young child be be target and , once suck in , if they do not have the money to pay the gang back , it be difficult to get out . I will come to that later . the fear that crime put into victim last so much long than the time take to experience and report the crime itself . something wide have also emerge in recent year : a sense of broken Britain . People tell I of see drug be deal openly in plain sight , bike theft and phone theft become virtually legal due to the lack of police response , and fraud and cyber - crime become more and more widespread . there be a sense that this be a country where certain form of crime simply happen without any consequence . recently , even call 999 be a futile gesture that lead nowhere . I will touch briefly on the response I receive to my recent constituency crime survey . of those who respond , 35 % have be victim of crime in the last 12 month . the most common theft be vehicle theft and catalytic converter theft . West London be at particular risk because of the a4 and m4 pass through , which allow for a quick getaway . for year , I have be raise the issue of catalytic converter theft with the Home Office . as we know , they be steal to order and pass on for the valuable material they contain . one of the many police Ministers tell I that the Government would consider a review of the Scrap Metal Dealers Act 2013 if necessary . will the Minister tell I whether the Home Office be do that review ? if so , when will we hear of any likely action ? his script might mention the national vehicle crime working group , which apparently meet regularly , but will he tell the House how it measure its outcome ? in my survey , the top three area of priority for constituent be burglary , violent and sexual crime , and drug - relate crime . antisocial behaviour be also frequently buy up , and it be also raise when I meet constituent , although the phrase rather obscure just what that crime be . whether it be constant fly - tipping on estate , long - run harassment campaign against neighbour or illegally modify bike speed through park , it feed into the sense of hopeless and powerless and the sense that our justice system be simply not work as it should . my hon . friend be be generous in give way . do she agree that when resident contact we , contact the police and contact other for help , they have the feeling that the answer be there but those who should be help they — local authority and the police in particular — be not respond and not join up to ensure swift action and cut this off so that resident and community can live in safety ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the problem with antisocial behaviour be that it be often deal with as " no crime " . it be true that there be more serious crime that need to be deal with , but , for so many , antisocial behaviour feel like the thin end of the wedge . there be a thread connect these crime that impact on all of our constituent , and ASB in particular : the sense that they be allow to happen in plain sight . there be an assumption that the police be at the core of the solution . in some way , they be . I be grateful to my hon . friend for secure the debate . she be describe something familiar to all of we in west London . in the post - covid period , there have be a rapid increase in antisocial behaviour , vehicle crime and drug - relate crime . I have an active local authority that have more CCTV camera per head of population than any other in the country and which have employ 70 law enforcement officer of its own . what be miss be the neighbourhood police that we use to have that reassure local community and gather intelligence . that really do make a contribution to both reassurance and keep crime down , and that be what we need back . I agree . we remember the time in the noughtie when we have five officer for every ward , but they have be cut to less than half that . let I talk about the role of the Metropolitan police . I be grateful for my regular meeting with Chief Superintendent Wilson and other inspector in Hounslow , and for the fact that Commissioner Mark Rowley have meet London MPs frequently , include last week . in Hounslow , I have be on a walkabout both in Osterley and in Isleworth , and in a response car all around my constituency . I have have the chance to see just how well local officer know our community and how hard they work . however , there be a huge gap between those positive experience and the wide service provide by the Met , as we know from both the Casey report and the experience of our constituent . I be well aware of the work that Metropolitan Commissioner Mark Rowley be do to try to turn around the appalling prejudice of a number of police officer and the generic response that all victim of crime get , so that people have some confidence in the core service . we look forward to see significant progress on that before too long . many resident , constituent and business have tell I that when they have report crime , they receive either not a proper response or no response at all . they get a crime reference number — that be it . a crime reference number be not justice serve . that be Commissioner Mark Rowley ' s task . the lack of response feed into the sense of powerless and unfairness . People want the police to investigate , catch the criminal and stop crime from reoccurre . Mark Rowley have promise to turn around the ship and restore trust in the Met . that trust need to be rebuild urgently . I want to focus on the Conservative Government , who have oversee the last 13 year of broken promise on police across England . first , there be the decision to cut 20 , 000 experience police officer . in London , more than 2 , 000 be cut , and in Hounslow borough , 80 experienced officer be cut . they know their community and know the appropriate response to ensure that information be gather and conflict situation be not escalate . those experienced officer have , too often , go . do my hon . friend agree that the way in which the cut take place and police be take from our community have have an impact on the relationship between the police and our resident ? the loss of knowledge of people , their life and community , and those in our school , have have an impact on that trust and familiarity , which go such a long way to prevent crime and give reassurance . my hon . friend explain so clearly the point that we make back then when the cut be be make . when I be deputy leader of Hounslow council , we say that the cut would have consequence , and my hon . friend just describe they perfectly . so , what have happen ? the Government have realise that they make a mistake , and be provide funding to re - recruit those vacancy . however , recruiting be difficult . the experience have go out the door . get new people in involve cost and training , and it take year for knowledge to be build up . there be not the number of keen , competent and experienced recruit the Metropolitan police so badly need , particularly from within London . as my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) say , ward team be cut from five or six police officer and police community support officer , down to one or two per ward . the police have tell I that they still do not have the number to carry out regular , high - profile foot patrol in at - risk area . that be what people desperately want to see , but conservative cut have make it impossible . in parallel to the cut be the swingeing cut to local government and other key frontline service : sure Start centre , play area , park , public health , social worker , school and college — all area that form the soft safety net . local group have have to fill the gap . one group I have work with be Action Isleworth Mothers . it be just one of many community group across west London work tirelessly to support family , in particular young people at risk of be exploit by gang . for three year Astrid Edwards , who found AIM , have be work unpaid with mother and their son to support they in keep away , or get away , from gang . she can not do that alone . she have work hard , use a progressive public health approach , to ensure key agency in the borough — school , the police , social service , housing , mental health and youth offender service — get out of their silos and work together . after three year of do that unfunded , AIM now have funding from Hounslow Council and the Mayor of London ' s violence reduction unit to be the lead facilitator for the hounslow parent - carer champion network to provide peer support to parent whose child be , or may be , at risk of serious youth violence , criminal exploitation and / or get involve in the criminal justice system . meanwhile , the Government have be bystander on the issue of crime and the cause of crime . on their watch , the number of arrest have halve , prosecution have almost halve and the number of crime solve have halve . More crime be be report , but few crime be be solve . criminal be get away with it . Don ' t worry , the Home Secretary be work hard — but only to prepare her leadership bid . she be often miss in action and seem to talk about crime only when she think she can get a cheap hit and headline out of it . I hope to finish on a slightly more positive note by say that we have see some sign of improvement locally in recent month . we have a new dedicated police team in Hounslow town centre , make up of over 20 officer , focus on the high street which have be a hotspot for crime . business and shopper say that it have make a positive difference . do my hon . friend agree that the way our police and local authority work with other organisation , such as no Shame in Running , run by Garvin Snell , and Project Turnover , work with child on the very edge of crime , be really important , and that our institution must have the capacity to support those who do such frontline work in our community ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . some of the most effective work be be do by people of , and from , the community — people like Garvin Snell and organisation such as AIM . they know the young people and they know the parent , but they can not do it alone . they must work in partnership with statutory agency . I be glad to say that in the borough of Hounslow there be well work together and less silo work between key public service . only then , when we see the child as a whole and work around the child as a whole , can we support they in keep away from crime and gang activity . one other success , follow my intervention , be the installation of CCTV camera behind a local estate and extra police patrol after resident contact I about crime gang use the alleyway for a quick getaway . to feel safe , all community need a visible police presence , proactive community work and engagement with the local council . that be why my right hon . friend the Member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford ( Yvette Cooper ) the shadow Home Secretary have call for the Government to bring back neighbourhood policing and to recruit over 10 , 000 neighbourhood officer and pcso . these be people who know their street , know their community and know how to tackle crime . that be what we desperately need : a government focus on tackle crime rather than chase cheap headline . after 13 long year of conservative rule , people locally desperately want change . I congratulate the hon . member for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) on secure the debate . it be particularly well time , give that this week be Anti - Social Behaviour Awareness Week . in fact , the launch event happen in Parliament early this evening , attend by the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , my hon . friend the Member for Derbyshire Dales ( Miss Dines ) who be the Minister with responsibility for safeguarding . we be clearly all extremely concerned about the effect of antisocial behaviour : the effect it have on our community and the way that it can undermine resident ' feeling of safety in their own neighbourhood . whether it be a high street , a local park or a playground , people should be able to feel safe on their own street and not feel any sense of fear or menace . the hon . Lady be right to say that antisocial behaviour should not be consider a low level or minor thing , because it affect how people feel in their own neighbourhood . for that reason , it be a very important topic , and I be glad that we have an opportunity to discuss it this evening . the hon . Lady start by say that she do not want to talk about figure . however , although the story be important and we will talk about how people feel , it be also important to have a firm statistical grasp of what be actually happen . as member will know , the only statistically approve measure of crime in England and Wales be the crime survey , endorse by the Office for National Statistics , which say that it be the only reliable long - term measure of crime . if we look at the figure since 2010 , just to take an arbitrary year , we will see that violence have reduce by 41 % , criminal damage by 68 % and various form of theft by about 40 % . we have , therefore , see dramatic reduction in crime , as report by the crime survey , over the past 13 year , but we should not be complacent , and we clearly need to do a lot more . one thing that we have in our armoury to fight antisocial behaviour be police officer . the hon . Lady speak passionately and eloquently about that . it be particularly welcome that we now have a record number of police officer across England and Wales — 149 , 572 , to be precise , which be about 3 , 000 more than we have in March 2010 . there be now more than 35 , 000 officer in London — every Member present be a London MP — which be more officer than it have ever have at any time in its history . that be thank to the police uplift programme that the Government fund . rise — I will give way to the hon . gentleman in a moment . London could have have another 1 , 000 officer on top of that , fund by the Government , but unfortunately Sadiq Khan be not able to organise himself to hire they , which be a great shame . I be sure that Labour Members , include the hon . member for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) , will join I in call on Sadiq Khan to get his act together and recruit those extra fund officer . I just want to give the Minister a quick reality check . if he be right that crime be massively down , why be my constituent tell I every day that there be a feeling of lawlessness on the street that they have not experience before ? offence include drug offence and car be break into and steal . if he have replace the 20 , 000 officer that the Government initially get rid of , why , as my hon . friend the Member for Brentford and Isleworth have say , do my neighbourhood team have only one or two officer per ward , rather than the six officer that they have before the Conservatives start run they down ? it be not I that be tell the hon . Gentleman that crime have reduce ; it be the crime survey of England and Wales , endorse by the Office for National Statistics . what he be talk about be the perception of crime , which be very important as well . it be important that people feel safe , and that be why we need to do more , but the figure be very clear . if he doubt they , I honestly recommend that he look at the crime survey statistic , because they actually make for quite comforting reading . the perception of crime be important and there be more to do . the hon . Gentleman ask about the deployment of neighbourhood officer . how the record number of officer be deploy be an operational matter for the commissioner , Sir Mark Rowley , and the police and crime commissioner for London , Mayor Sadiq Khan . the hon . Gentleman ' s representation would be well direct to they , but London have never in its history have a great total number of officer . I agree that have they on neighbourhood deployment be valuable . the hon . member for Brentford and Isleworth say that an extra 20 officer be part of a newly establish town centre team . the same be true of Croydon , which also have about 20 extra officer , and that be very welcome and useful . in addition to officer , we also need basis from which they can patrol . I be sure that Labour Members will join I in call on the Mayor of London Sadiq Khan to ditch his plan , announce in 2017 , to close 37 police station . I notice that , miraculously and for reason that I can not imagine , he have just decide to cancel the closure plan for Uxbridge police station . let we hope that he cancel the closure plan for the other 36 police station . let I move on to the importance of prevention . we have talk about police station , officer and the importance of their being deploy in the neighbourhood , but prevention be important , too . the hon . member for Brentford and Isleworth refer to the Mayor of London ' s violence reduction partnership , and in the next breath she say that the Government have be bystander . what she forget to mention be that the so - call Mayor of London ' s violence reduction partnership be entirely fund by the Government . for some reason , she omit to mention that . I be glad to say that violence reduction unit , or partnership , have receive £ 170 million of Government funding . they do valuable work in provide diversionary activity . the Youth Endowment Fund , which have £ 200 million over 10 year , identify the good kind of intervention and fund they , as well as cognitive behavioural therapy , which help many young people . we have an antisocial behaviour action plan , which be launch by the Prime Minister just a couple of month ago and be be roll out as we speak . it have a number of element ; I will not detain the House by go through all of they at this late hour , but I will mention a couple . one be hotspot patrolling : antisocial behaviour hotspot be identify , and police officer be " surge " into those area . ten police force area around the country be conduct pilot during the current financial year . I speak to the police and crime commissioner about it today , and all the pilot will be up and run this month . from next April , every police force in the country — all 43 of the force in England and Wales — will have hotspot policing , and there will be just over £ 1 million for each police force to fund the ASB patrol . that will be welcome , and will address some of the issue that the hon . Lady raise . there will also be 10 immediate justice pilot , again fund with about £ 1 million for each force , and start this month . People who take part in antisocial behaviour will very quickly — ideally within 48 hour — have to undertake restorative work such as remove graffiti or clean up a park or a high street , wear brand hi - vis jacket . once the pilot have be complete this year , every police force in the country , from next April , will have an immediate justice project , again fully fund by the Government with £ 1 million for each police force — about £ 43 million in total . we be ban nitrous oxide , which I think will also help on the antisocial behaviour front . I hope member will agree that the antisocial behaviour action plan , of which those measure be just a small part , will help we to clamp down on ASB in our community . the total funding for the plan be about £ 160 million . in the moment remain to we , let I commend the safe street fund . the hon . Lady mention CCTV in an alleyway , which may well have ultimately be fund by the fund . London have so far receive about £ 3 . 2 billion . the fund be design to fund measure such as CCTV to help people feel safe on the street , with particular emphasis on woman ' s safety but with the aim of combat ASB more widely as well . we will shortly announce the next safe street fund round . we take vehicle and bicycle theft very seriously — the incidence of both have fall dramatically , and I think that bicycle theft may have fall by as much as 65 % since 2010 — and we also take catalytic converter theft very seriously . we have a spate of those in Croydon . I be tell by our borough commander that a gang have be arrest a few month ago , and since then we have see a big reduction , certainly in south London , although I be not sure whether the same be true in west London . we experience a big drop about six month ago , when that gang be arrest . the Scrap Metal Dealers Act 2013 — which begin as a private Member ' s Bill , take through the House by my constituency predecessor , Sir Richard Ottaway — have help a great deal . the Bill be originally inspire by theft of lead from church roof , but it be also make it hard , although sadly not impossible , to sell the rare earth metal to be find in catalytic converter . we be work on that with the National Vehicle Crime Working Group . I do ask whether there would be a review of the Scrap Metal Dealers Act . it be clearly not work , because we be still experience spate of catalytic converter theft . my predecessor ' s private Member ' s Bill , now the Scrap Metal Dealers Act , have dramatically reduce the theft of scrap metal from thing like church roof , which be what inspire his PMB 10 year ago , but we be always happy to look at whether the legislation can be strengthen . broadly , the Act deal with metal , but I would be very happy to respond if the hon . Lady would like to write to I with specific proposal for how it could be improve or for how regulation could be strengthen . it be welcome that crime have fall so much since 2010 and that we have record number of police officer — more than we have ever have in England and Wales , and more than we have ever have in London , too — but we all accept that there be more to do to fight crime . this Government be commit to do that , whether through the safe street fund , violence reduction unit or the ASB action plan . when we need to do something , we will do it . I look forward to work with member across the House to keep our constituent safe . question put and agree to . House adjourn .