Oral Answers to Questions Women and Equalities the Minister for Women and Equalities be ask — Conversion Practices : Legislative Ban when she plan to bring forward legislative proposal to ban conversion practice . the Government remain committed to publish a draft bill on ban conversion practice for pre - legislative scrutiny by a Joint Committee of both Houses in this parliamentary session . it be now over five year since the Government first make a commitment to legislate on conversion therapy , and more recently there be a promise that legislation would be table this spring . can the Minister elaborate on some of the reason for the delay , and perhaps be more clear about when the legislation will be bring forward ? I can assure the hon . Gentleman that we be absolutely committed to introduce the Bill in its draft stage as soon as possible . it be a complex matter . it be something that I have feel very passionately about over many year , but it be right that we get the legislation right . I hope that we will be able to present it as soon as possible . I call the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee . do my right hon . friend agree with I and , indeed , with the former Prime Minister that conversion therapy be " abhorrent " ? if he do agree , do he think it be abhorrent for everyone ? I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for her question . I absolutely agree that it be abhorrent ; moreover , it do not work — that be a serious point . yes , I do believe that that be with regard to everyone . give that the Minister have agree that conversion therapy be abhorrent , and give what my hon . friend the Member for North Down ( Stephen Farry ) say about five year have pass since we be first tell that it would be ban — we be then tell that the Bill have be scrap , then that it would be come back , and then that it would come back with a loophole about consent — do the Minister agree that that confusion be cause unacceptable stress , confusion and fear among the LGBT community ? will the Government commit to end the confusion soon ? I do not want anybody in the LGBT community to feel fear — I have have that experience myself and I would not wish it on anyone . that be why we be make sure that the Bill be a good Bill that deliver good law to ensure that we outlaw those abhorrent practice . I recognise that the delay have cause some issue for the community , but I assure they that we be on their side . through my personal dealing with the Minister , I know how much he be committed to make sure that this legislation come forward . can he reassure I that , despite what some have say , the Bill be not about stop parent from have meaningful conversation with their child who may be question their sexuality ? my hon . friend raise an important point . that be why we need to consider the evidence carefully ; those conversation that parent have with their child be really important . I will never forget the conversation I have with my mum and dad , who help I when I be come out . I call the shadow Secretary of State . some 1 , 835 day have pass since the Government first promise to ban conversion practice . that be long than it take to make a good Bill — it be long than it take to build the Empire State Building and the Shard put together . we be tell in January that a Bill would be publish " shortly " . seven month later , can the Minister tell LGBT people how many more day , week , month , or even year they must wait ? I refer the hon . Lady to the answer I give a moment ago . the answer that the Minister give a moment ago be that we would see something before the end of this Parliament . I be afraid that be not good enough for those LGBT people who have be wait for too long . I will ask the Minister another question . we hear from the Government during their consultation on this ban — even that be almost two year ago now — that they would let some of the bad practitioner off the hook by include a consent loophole . do the Minister seriously think that LGBT people can consent to abuse and , if not , will he end the charade and remove that loophole so that every LGBT person be protect ? I respectfully say to the hon . Lady that she have not see the Bill yet , so it be a bit early to make those comment . this be exactly why we be make sure that a Joint Committee of both Houses look at the Bill ; it be a very complex piece of legislation . we want to make sure that it outlaw those awful practice , but also ensure that people — clinician , parent , teacher and so on — do not feel a chilling effect . it be right that we get stakeholder and people from this House engage in that process , so that when the Bill be present to the House for debate , it be in the good possible position . pension Credit Uptake what discussion she have have with the Secretary of State for work and Pensions on increase the uptake of pension credit among old people . since April last year , we have be run a substantial campaign to raise awareness and increase take - up . there be strong indication that this campaign be work . application for pension credit be around 75 % high in the year to May 2023 than in the same period the year before . my retired constituent , from Dennistoun to Ruchazie , from Carntyne to Blackhill , and across the north and east of Glasgow , know that I be a champion for their right . that be why I set up the all - party parliamentary group on pension credit , and why I and my team have sit with hundred of old constituent and help they to apply for pension credit , which be after all their right . I choose to do this as a constituency MP , but it be our role to champion the right of old people , and the Minister be not tell I anything that be give I any comfort that she be actually go to champion they . when will she start do that ? I thank the hon . Lady for the work that she do for her constituent . many mp use the help to claim service or the benefit calculator to assist constituent . I think she will be keen to know that the Minister responsible for pension , my hon . friend the Member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) , announce the innovative Invitation to claim trial , which will be hold in 10 local authority across Great Britain this summer . it will involve the Department for Work and Pensions send letter to 2 , 600 pensioner household identify by housing benefit datum and most likely to be entitle to pension credit . that be on top of the wide - range communication we be already do . I thank my hon . friend for the answer she have give . clearly , there be a reluctance among people who be entitle to this benefit to actually claim it . what action be she take to break down that taboo , so that people who be fully entitle to this money and desperately need it actually claim it ? I thank my hon . friend for that point because some people do not come forward . it be in their make - up . we need to help they to be encourage that they be absolutely entitled to the benefit . I reassure he that the DWP receive around 21 , 000 claim in the two week in the run - up to 19 May , which be 171 % up compare with the corresponding week in 2022 , so the action we be all take be work . Equality Act 2010 : Public Bodies what step she be take to help ensure that public body implement the requirement of the Equality Act 2010 . the Government have publish a range of advice and guidance to help public body comply with the Equality Act . the Equality and Human Rights Commission also publish technical guidance on comply with the public sector equality duty . I will shortly be reissue my December 2021 update to Ministers on how to comply with the public sector equality duty , especially when it come to complete equality impact assessment , and I hope that that be distribute widely . with the Met police force reluctant to investigate murderous threat towards three sit mp for their lawfully protect belief and characteristic ; a convict criminal call for violence against woman at Trans Pride incoherently defend as freedom of expression by that same force ; and broadcaster , journalist , faith leader and even the Equalities and Human Rights Commissioner for Scotland all have have their bank account close for what appear to be their lawfully protect characteristic , will the Minister meet I and other affected member to consider how we tackle this dangerous misinformation , rampant homophobia and misogyny be promote in our institution by organisation such as Stonewall ? I take the point that the hon . Gentleman have make very seriously , and I would be very happy to meet he . we be a free and fair society , and we must protect free speech and allow open discussion , as long as it do not break the law . on bank account closure , bank and other payment service , provider occupy a privileged place in our society , and it would be a serious concern if financial service be be deny to anyone exercise their right to lawful free speech . I need to express this : a notice period of fair and open communication with a customer must apply in those situation that relate to termination on ground other than suspect or actual criminal offence or when otherwise allow by law . the Government be currently review evidence on whether the exist payment service and account termination framework be operate effectively , or if further clarification be need . we be all delighted that the Government appoint an independent inquiry chair by Lord Etherton to look into the disgraceful treatment of LGBT soldier , sailor and air people before 2001 and the fact that those wrong have not yet be put right . that report be give to the government some three week ago now , and I understand that the Government have say they will produce it before the summer . will they also answer the report at that time , will they give we a date for it and will there be an oral statement in this House , so we can quiz the Government on the report ? I will speak to my ministerial colleague in the Ministry of Defence who have receive the report , and ensure that my hon . friend receive a response . Female - lead business what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help increase the number of female - lead business . I be work with Cabinet colleague to harness the skill , innovation and talent of UK female entrepreneur , and widen opportunity for the next generation of woman set up business . that be why we launch a woman - lead high - growth enterprise taskforce . build on the work of the Rose review , it bring together some of the country ' s most successful female entrepreneur , lead by the founder of Starling Bank , Anne Boden . I thank the Minister for her answer . we have brilliant successful female entrepreneur across Anglesey , include Laurel Knight at Medic 1 , Lynne Farr at the Beaumaris Artisan Market , Helen Evans at the Amlwch Artisan Studio , and Jo Weir at Beau ' s Tea Rooms . we also have some fabulous successful male entrepreneur such as Celfyn and Emrys Furlong . they be support by organisation such as Alison Cork ' s make it your business , the British Library ' s Business and IP Centre , the Federation of Small Businesses Wales , and Small Business Saturday UK . how be this Government support those organisation to broaden their reach and empower even more fabulous female entrepreneur ? my hon . friend rightly mention some of the highly successful initiative lead by entrepreneur , male and female , across Anglesey , which we fully support . those be exactly the sort of organisation that we like to see flourish across the UK . just last week , I speak to the woman and enterprise all - party group , alongside my hon . friend the Member for North Warwickshire ( Craig Tracey ) . that be attend by female entrepreneur from across the country , who talk about how the Government be invest in woman , and how the Rose review and the high - growth enterprise taskforce be have an impact on their life and business . pathway , a new approach for woman and enterprise , be commission by the Scottish Government . it have begin to implement , along with key stakeholder , include enterprise agency , the Scottish National Investment Bank and private investor , way to include under - represent part of society in the business system . what step be the UK Government take to weave inclusivity through the business support system in a similar fashion to that in Scotland ? we believe that business be well place to do that themselves , and we provide as much advice , guidance and support as possible . for example , the British Business Bank have lead many scheme and initiative to promote inclusivity in the workplace . however , if there be something specific where the hon . Gentleman think there be a gap in the market , I would be happy to hear about such an initiative . I call the shadow Minister . under the Conservatives , just 12 % of executive director of FTSE 250 company be woman — a gap that will not close until 2058 at the current rate . woman who want to go into business can not wait for the Conservatives to get their act together . they need a new deal for work people , a review of the gender pay gap , and a menopause action plan in the workplace . that be labour ' s pro - business , pro - woman plan to smash the glass ceiling and break down the barrier . do the Minister have a plan ? I be afraid that the shadow Front - Bench spokeswoman be confuse all sort of different thing . FTSE director be not the one who need support get into the workplace . she be talk about a menopause action plan , but we have have one , complete and deliver it , while Labour member be just talk about bring one in , which show that they be not pay attention . we be the only one who will be do what be right to promote gender equality in the workplace . Government Equalities Office : policy relate to Men if she will hold discussion with Cabinet colleague on the potential merit of include policy relate to man on the list of Government Equalities Office responsibility . the Government be already take action to improve outcome for man and boy . for example , through the introduction of share parental leave , man now have more opportunity to take time away from the workplace to care for their child . we continue to work closely across Government to embed equality policy for both man and woman . I thank the Minister for her answer , but do she believe that there should be a Minister for Men , as there be a Minister for Women ? I thank my hon . friend for his hard work in this space as chair of the all - party group on issue affect man and boy . he know — this be with my health hat on — of the work that we be do to improve lung cancer outcome for man , and about the suicide prevention strategy that will be come forward ; we know that middle - aged man be at particular risk . I reassure he that the Equality Hub have responsibility for both man and woman to ensure equality for all , and I will speak to the Minister for Women and Equalities so that we can be clear about how that work impact on man . current legislation require all public facility to have sanitary bin in female and gender - neutral toilet . however , as highlight by the Boys Need Bins campaign , hygiene bin need to be provide in man ' s toilet . what step be the Minister take to introduce legislation that address that issue ? I reassure the hon . Lady that work be go on in that space . my ministerial colleague from the Department for Work and Pensions be look at this , and will be update the House shortly . [ Official Report , 17 July 2023 , Vol . 736 , c . 9mc . ] Gender and Racial Inequality in the Workplace what step the Government be take to help tackle ( a ) gender and ( b ) racial inequality in the workplace . what step the Government be take to help tackle ( a ) gender and ( b ) racial inequality in the workplace . the Government have take numerous step to tackle gender and racial inequality in the workplace , as see with the comprehensive action outline in our landmark " Inclusive Britain " strategy , as well as various initiative to support woman in the workplace . as outline in our " Inclusive Britain " report , we be work towards a new voluntary inclusion confident scheme to support employer on clear , manageable advice on effective diversity and inclusion intervention . like most thing in this place , this Government ' s policy on parental leave be in the dark age . research by Pregnant then Screwed show that well - pay parental leave for all parent would bring well equality in the labour market , yet this Government seem dog in their determination to stand still . why be the government block great gender equality in the workplace ? I completely disagree with the hon . Lady . this Government have do more than any other to promote gender equality in the workplace , include bring in policy such as share parental leave . we have also bring in extend redundancy protection for those on maternity leave and introduce carer ' s leave , and we be support legislation to strengthen the protection against harassment in the workplace . a new report from the Fawcett Society show the motherhood pay penalty and how mother with two child take home 26 % less income than woman without child , impact on a woman ' s income and earn power throughout her work life . it compound the effect of the ethnicity pay gap . will the UK Government tackle that by make flexible work the default and introduce mandatory gender and ethnicity pay gap reporting ? we have just finish a private Member ' s Bill that make the right to ask for flexible work mandatory . that strike the right balance for business , rather than make it mandatory for people to demand flexible working . not every business can provide it , and it be not something that will improve equality in the workplace . when I ask black and minority ethnic resident in Basingstoke about their experience at work , their response be concern . I have be work especially with our big local employer , the local education authority and the NHS to tackle the issue . what be my right hon . friend do to ensure that public service be exemplar when it come to race equality in the workplace ? if my right hon . friend see the work that we have put into our " Inclusive Britain " strategy , she will see that almost everything that be in action be about the public sector . there be so much we can do to promote racial equality in the workplace , but we need to do that fairly and transparently , as well as universally . the Equality Act 2010 protect characteristic , not group . if she would like to work with I on any specific initiative , I would be keen to hear more from she about what she have be work on . I call the SNP spokesperson . there be grow concern about new technology such as artificial intelligence and automation software be use in recruitment and employment . study show that AI perpetuate bias across gender , race , age and disability , as well as dialect and regional difference of speech . what recent assessment have the Minister make of the equality impact of AI use in recruitment and the workplace ? have she raise that with Cabinet colleague ? yes , I have raise it with Cabinet colleague . in fact , I have a meeting with the Government chief scientific officer just last week on this issue . it be a concern that AI can embed bias , and that mean we need to look at the dataset and large language model that be inform the AI be use . equality impact assessment apply to the public sector equality duty , and much of AI be be do in the private sector . we will do our part , but I be keen to hear from member about specific initiative that they think can help . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . in February this year , we announce the STEM ReCharge pilot to support parent and carer back into science , technology , engineering and mathematic role . since then , we have recruit and train the first cohort of engineering and technology returner in the midland and the north of England . they have receive personalised training and support to help to get they back into the workforce , and we be now recruit a second cohort , who will use insight and lesson learn from the pilot to develop new guidance , so that STEM employer across the UK can benefit from the full wealth of the return STEM group . the summer holiday , which be approach , see a spike in domestic abuse . do my right hon . friend agree that it be important that people know there be help available ? will she lend her support to the campaign I be run in Basingstoke with the police and crime commissioner Donna Jones to help to make sure that victim of domestic abuse in north Hampshire know they be not alone and that there be help there ? I agree with my right hon . friend . it be important that people know where to go for help when they have experience domestic abuse . the Government be provide police and crime commissioner with dedicated ringfenced funding for at least 900 independent sexual violence and domestic abuse adviser and will fund an additional 100 , bring the total to more than 1 , 000 by 2025 . the cost of live crisis disproportionately affect disabled constituent who be reliant on specialist diet and equipment and now face increase food and energy cost . will the Minister confirm what cross - governmental action the Government can take to well support disabled constituent with those additional cost ? the Government recognise the challenge for disabled people and those with health condition . the £ 150 disability cost of live payment should be see as one part of the overall package . the benefit calculator on gov . uk will help people to claim the wide benefit that be out there — that be just one of the payment . last week , I host the Institute of Physics and its campaign to increase diversity in physics , which be the second most popular a - level for boy but only the 16th for girl . what step be my hon . friend take to encourage more girl to study physics beyond GCSE ? study STEM a - level such as physics can boost potential earning and , with a grow demand for student with STEM qualification in the job market , it be important that girl take that opportunity . we be therefore work with the Department for Education in fund the Inclusion in Schools project , which be design to increase the uptake of a - level physics among student from under - represent group , include girl . Homelessness be on the rise , and it disproportionately affect young LGBT + people . the youth LGBT + homelessness charity Albert Kennedy Trust have report a 58 % increase in new referral over the past four year . will the Minister work with Cabinet colleague to well understand the specific challenge that people in the community face with homelessness and look at what more can be do to support they ? the hon . Lady raise a very important point . I be pleased to report that I have meet colleague in the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , and we have hold a roundtable to discuss exactly those issue . one of the key element , which we really need to do , be to gather the datum so that we can well understand some of the cause and what the solution might be to help those people . how many discussion have the Secretary of State have with Department for Education colleague about forthcoming guidance on tran - identify child ? I have be work closely with the Education Secretary , because it be important that we get the guidance for school right . it must show school how to be compassionate to pupil question their gender in a way that be compliant with the Equality Act 2010 , include ensure that single - sex space be maintain and the safety and wellbeing of all pupil be not compromise . conversion therapy should be ban entirely , not with a voluntary loophole , as this Government intend , which we know mean that conversion therapy will be open to coercion . the loophole be so large that it will leave any Bill meaningless . will the Minister commit to a full ban on conversion therapy , as support by organisation such as Stonewall and Time for Inclusive Education in Scotland ? the hon . Lady raise some important point . that be exactly why we have take considerable care to engage with a whole range of stakeholder to consider all the issue that need address . it be precisely because of those point that we be go for pre - legislative scrunty so that all of those issue can be look at again , to ensure that we present the very good Bill to help people who be subject to these horrible crime . GambleAware figure show that the number of woman seek help for problem gambling double between 2015 and 2020 , with up to 1 million woman deem to be at risk . datum also show that woman be less likely to participate in sport bet ; instead , they be more active in online bingo and casino - style game . what work be my right hon . friend do with Cabinet colleague to highlight the risk of online gambling , to reduce stigma and to help woman seek treatment ? my hon . friend raise a really important point . we recently publish the gamble White Paper , in which we address a number of those issue . Stigma be a very important one . we want people to come forward and get the treatment they need . we be also introduce a statutory levy on gambling operator to ensure that we have the prevention and treatment need to help those suffer with gambling harm . early this year , the Government cut almost £ 6 million of funding for a Save the Children programme provide education and other service to girl in Afghanistan , despite a promise to put woman and girl at the heart of the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office ' s work . will the Secretary of State work with colleague at the Department to deliver on the Government ' s commitment and reinstate that funding ? educate girl be one of the top priority under the british Government ' s international development strategy — indeed , it be the way to change the world . over the last five year for which figure be available , the british taxpayer procure a decent education for more than 8 million child in the poor world . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Oil Production and Domestic Energy Prices whether he have make an assessment of the impact of a potential reduction in oil production by Saudi Arabia and Russia on domestic energy price . I have be ask to reply . global oil price have remain largely stable this year . this have not change follow the announcement of additional production cut by Saudi Arabia and Russia . we expect that the impact of the cut will be mitigate by the increase in supply from other producer and a decrease in global oil demand , as we have see previously . if we want to insulate ourselves from future price rise , we need to invest in a green future . the United States get it : it have commit $ 370 billion to net zero energy . the European Union get it : it be set to match that figure . in Scotland , we get it . we have the ambition to lead the world on renewable energy . we have the energy but not the power . why be Westminster try to block Scotland ' s path to a safe , green future ? we of course will continue to invest in renewable , but I say to the Scottish National party that we should also invest in our energy independence , and that mean invest in the North sea . if we fail to invest in the North sea , we will be more reliant on foreign producer and we will have high carbon emission as we import from elsewhere . engagement if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 12 July . my right hon . friend the Prime Minister be in Vilnius , attend the NATO summit . it be an opportunity to build on the work we have do over the past year , strengthen NATO and support Ukraine . in addition to my meeting in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . New Labour ' s old mantra be " Education , education , education . " its new one seem to be " tax education , tax education , tax education . " do the Deputy Prime Minister share my disgust at Labour ' s plan to tax education of choice , which could lead to 40 , 000 pupil be send into the state sector , with a cost to the taxpayer ? a number of english language school in my constituency be concerned that this will also apply to they , as well as to out - of - hour tuition and sport training . do the Deputy Prime Minister object to those measure as strongly as I do ? once again , we have see the Labour party put the politic of envy above the interest of child in this country . as my hon . friend rightly highlight , recent analysis show that it could lead to over 40 , 000 pupil leave the school they be in , place further burden on exist school and cost £ 300 million . I call the deputy Leader of the Opposition . I know you be a keen historian , Mr Speaker , so I look up the last time a Prime Minister miss two session in a row for other engagement . it be March 1996 . I be very proud to be fill the boot of Lord John Prescott , but I think it be safe to say that the Deputy Prime Minister be no Heseltine . John Prescott ask , why be it that in Tory Britain , ten of thousand of family be face repossession , negative equity and homelessness ? can the Deputy Prime Minister tell we , 27 year later , why I be have to ask the same question ? clearly , the right hon . Lady do not listen to my previous comment . the Prime Minister be at NATO . of course , that would not be a problem if she have have her way . her old boss want to abandon Ukraine , abolish the Army and withdraw from NATO , and he certainly would not be go to any summit . when it come to house building , I will take no lecture from the Labour party on home ownership . my parent would not have be able to buy their own home if it be not for Margaret Thatcher and the reform introduce by her Government , and this Government be build on those with record house building . I think the right hon . Gentleman be take lesson from the former Prime Minister on tell the fact . the last Labour Government work hard to dramatically reduce the number of child in temporary accommodation , but under the Tories the number of homeless child have rise by 75 % . I be proud of our record on tackle child poverty . do the right hon . Gentleman feel ashamed of his ? I will tell the right hon . Lady what this Government have do : we have lift 400 , 000 child out of child poverty ; we have introduce the national living wage , something the Labour party totally fail to do ; and we have increase the national living wage by the large amount ever , mean £ 1 , 800 for work people and cut their taxis by double the personal allowance . that be the sure way to ensure we lift people out of poverty , and it would never have happen under the Labour party . it be like the ghost of Prime Minister past . I tell the right hon . Gentleman that he should be careful about the stat he use , because the Children ' s Commissioner warn the other Prime Minister about peddle false narrative on child poverty around those figure . the truth be that rise bill , soar mortgage and plummet real wage be push more and more family to the brink . those already struggle be be hit hard by the Tory mortgage bombshell and rise food cost , so can the right hon . Gentleman tell we how many primary school child have be push into poverty since his government take power ? I say to the right hon . Lady that it be this conservative party , not the Labour party , that extend free school meal to all five , six and seven - year - old — something the Labour party fail to do — and that sit alongside many measure we be take to help people with the cost of living . we pay half of family ' energy bill last winter , fund by our 75 % windfall tax , and we be freeze fuel duty , help family with childcare and deliver on our pledge to reduce the debt . it may come as a surprise to she , but balance the book mean more than work out how many more million to take from her union paymaster . once again , the right hon . Gentleman talk about balance the book . his party crash the economy and he seem to be completely oblivious to what it be like for work people in this country at the moment . new research out today show that 400 , 000 more primary school - age child be grow up in poverty since his government come to office . why do he think that be ? I will take absolutely no lecture whatsoever from the Labour party about how we help child in the most need . it be record investment from this Government in education — £ 2 billion more this year , £ 2 billion next year — which be give those very child the good possible start in life , ensure that we have the high reading standard in the western world . I have to say to the right hon . Lady , her leader say he hate tree hugger , but they seem very keen on hug that magic money tree . the right hon . Gentleman do not even acknowledge that child poverty be rise , let alone explain why . what hope have he get of solve it ? let I try a simple question : how many kid do not have a permanent address today compare with when Labour leave office in 2010 ? we can exchange all these number across the Dispatch Boxes , but these be the number that matter . there be 1 . 7 million few people in absolute poverty under this Government , 400 , 000 few child , 200 , 000 few pensioner and 1 million few people of work age , because the single good route out of poverty be a job , and record number of people — 4 million more under this government — have get a job . that be the difference between this conservative party and the Labour party , which always leave office with unemployment higher . what matter be what people feel every single day at the moment — go to work yet they can not afford their mortgage , their rent or their Bills , because of this Conservative Government . there be 55 , 000 more child without a permanent address today compare with when the Tories take office 13 year ago . we have go from a Labour Cabinet focus on tackle child poverty to Tory Ministers who will not even admit the problem . just as in March 1996 , they can offer only excuse , not answer . John Prescott ask Michael Heseltine that day : " how can the right hon . gentleman be so complacent in the face of the sheer misery create by the Government ' s policy ? " — [ Official Report , 5 March 1996 ; Vol . 273 , c . 147 . ] twenty - seven year on , why be we ask the exact same thing ? I know there be an opposition reshuffle come up , but this audition for John Prescott ' s old job be get a little bit hackneyed . it be this Government who have lift 400 , 000 child out of poverty . I hear the right hon . Lady claim that Labour be the party of work people , but under their policy people can not even get to work . they support just stop oil protester block our road , they support their union paymaster stop our train , and of course they support the hate ultra - low emission zone stop car across our capital . while conservative get Britain move , Labour stand in everyone ' s way . give that the Mansion House compact do not encourage our pension fund to invest specifically in british company , what more can the Government do to encourage great investment in our company , especially climate technology start - up , which increasingly be go abroad to find the funding they require , to the benefit of our competitor ? my hon . friend raise an important point about both start - up capital and ensure that we get more money to high - growth company . the Chancellor ' s pension compact be a very important step forward , which will unlock £ 75 billion of additional investment . I be quite confident that large amount of that will go to UK company , and it sit alongside measure such as the Edinburgh reform to financial service , which will help improve financial service in this country and unlock money for those industry . I call the SNP deputy leader . last month , the Deputy Prime Minister dismiss warning from the SNP Benches that mortgage rate be nearly back to where they be after the disastrous mini - Budget . this week , mortgage rate have surpass those level . how high do they need to go before he and his Government take this seriously ? the hon . Lady know — people around the world know — that the driver of high mortgage rate be high inflation , and high inflation be cause by Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine and by the post - covid supply chain . what we have to do be make sure that we halve inflation . it be only by get inflation under control that we will be able to get mortgage rate down , and that require discipline — discipline on spending , on public sector pay and on energy supply , all of which be lack from the SNP . the Bank of England predict that mortgage payment will rise by at least £ 500 for a million household . the Prime Minister say that people need to " hold their nerve " ; the Chancellor say just last night that mortgage holder should just " shop around " . speak of his own party , the hon . member for South West Devon ( Sir Gary Streeter ) say : " if the circus doesn ' t stop by Christmas , it ' s over " . do the Deputy Prime Minister understand that people can not afford to wait until Christmas and that they need help right now ? the fundamental thing that we have to do be to halve inflation . that be an approach that the International Monetary Fund " strongly endorse " , because high inflation drive high mortgage rate . but that be not all we be do : with the mortgage charter , sign up to by 90 % of mortgage provider , we be give people help to extend their term , to go interest - only and to reduce their monthly payment . that action be support by Martin Lewis , a real money - save expert , unlike the big spender on the SNP Benches . last year , I visit Abbeyfield House in Wednesfield and be impress by the model of assisted living for old people that give they the independence of a self - contain flat but the ability to eat and socialise together . I be deeply concerned to hear that a consultation be under way to close Abbeyfield House in Wednesfield . I go back there to speak to old people , and they unanimously want to stay there . Abbeyfield be a charity — his Majesty the King have be a patron for 40 year now — and it can not meet the cost of update the estate to meet environmental standard . will my right hon . friend meet I to see what support the Government can offer to Abbeyfield so that resident do not have to leave the home they love ? I be of course very happy to give my hon . friend that assurance . I note that we have provide £ 7 . 5 billion of additional funding for social care and discharge . on energy specifically , we have an energy advice service to support small business and we have be pilot new audit and grant scheme that may also help . in January , Emily book an appointment with her local dentist in Chard , Somerset , for 14 June , only to be tell by a neighbour at the end of May that the surgery have close in April . emily no long have a dentist , all the remain surgery be not take on any new patient , and Emily do not know what to do , so will the Deputy Prime Minister tell Emily and million of people like she when they can get an appointment with a local NHS dentist ? the right hon . Gentleman may have miss it , but our NHS workforce plan be invest an extra £ 2 . 4 billion into training and retain crucial NHS staff , include dentist and gps . the number of dentist will rise by 40 % . I say to people across that constituency that the good way they can ensure well service for their NHS be to vote for Faye Purbrick , the conservative candidate . will the Deputy Prime Minister let we know when we can expect allocation from round 3 of the levelling - up fund ? when it come , will it be true to the Prime Minister ' s pledge that all part of the country will benefit , include the south - east and , most particularly , the very deserving town of Andover ? as well as my right hon . friend have be an excellent Minister , I know how committed he be to the town of Andover . we will shortly announce the new approach to the third round and further detail will follow shortly . there be thing we encounter in political life that be certain to horrify , appal and sicken we , but I do not think I have ever see anything quite so grotesque as the painting over of a child ' s Mickey Mouse mural , as the Home Office do at a detention centre in Kent . no Minister have , so far , rouse the necessary compassion or concern to speak out about this . will the Deputy Prime Minister look into the deep recess of his soul and simply condemn it ? I will tell the hon . Gentleman what real compassion look like : stop the vile people - smuggle trade across the channel that be condemn woman and child to death . this government be take action to deal with it through our " stop the boat " Bill , which the Scottish National party shamefully vote against 18 time last night . as the party of aspiration , we know the importance of home ownership . accord to a recent estimate by Barclays , it now take eight year for the average first - time buyer to save for a deposit , and in part of London and the south - east it can take long . what be the Deputy Prime Minister and the Government do to improve the prospect for young people who want to own their own home ? I know my hon . friend be passionate in champion this issue . almost 850 , 000 household have be help to purchase a home since 2010 . in 2021 , the number of people get on to the property ladder for the first time be at a 20 - year high , thank to initiative such as First Homes and the help to buy scheme . of course , that stand in contrast to the Labour party , which oversee the low level of house building since the 1920s . with rise ticket price , many of my constituent find they can get the good - value fare by go to the staff ticket office at Lancaster station , which be perhaps why so many of they have sign my petition to save staffing at the station . be the closure of ticket office just yet another cost of live bombshell hit my hard - work constituent ? it be important that the railway continue to reform after the record amount of money we give they during covid . if the hon . Lady be concerned about her constituent get anywhere on the railway , I gently say that she should condemn the totally unjustified strike that close they down week after week . four summer ago , the unprecedented climate change - drive heatwave cause irreparable damage to Chelmsford ' s flyover . since then , people from across Essex have be get stick in Chelmsford ' s traffic jam , which be waste time and hit our economic growth . we badly need a new junction at the Army and Navy , but the funding decision have be stick in Whitehall . will my right hon . friend use his cross - Cabinet convening power to get the Treasury and the Department for Transport to agree to the money so that we can deliver a new junction , stop the traffic jam and get Chelmsford move again ? my right hon . friend have be make a powerful case for this scheme , and she do so once again . the Chancellor be sit next to I and will have hear she . I understand that the outline business case submit by Essex County Council be be consider by Ministers right now , and all relevant Ministers will have hear her injunction . Scottish Ambulance Service statistic show a more than 30 % increase in hypothermic call - out across Scotland last winter , include a staggering 84 % increase in the north in December . although fuel price have fall slightly , food and other cost have rise exponentially . to end the perversity of energy - rich Scotland see a third of scot freeze in fuel poverty , when will the Government bring in a social tariff to ensure that the poor and vulnerable can get through this winter without call out the ambulance service because they be freeze ? as my right hon . friend the Chancellor set out in his autumn statement , we be explore the good approach to consumer protection from April 2024 as part of wide retail market reform . I reiterate that we pay half of energy bill in Scotland last winter , thank to the strength of our Union . may I remind the Deputy Prime Minister and the House that yesterday be National Remembering Srebrenica Day ? may I particularly point out a little - know fact ? british soldier take about 2 , 000 civilian out of Srebrenica in April 1993 . those british soldier be from B Squadron 9th / 12th Lancers . it be not widely know , but , under my command , they save a huge number of life by take those people out of Srebrenica . they , too , should be remember for their very gallant action , because it be very dangerous . I pay tribute to my right hon . and gallant Friend and to all those whom he command in the 1990 . we must honour the memory of those kill , and pay tribute to the extraordinary courage show by their family , survivor and all those member of our armed force , who serve so gallantly in that situation . in the Welsh Affairs Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Ceredigion ( Ben Lake ) ask the Chief Secretary to the Treasury about the vary comparability factor for Wales of Crossrail , Thameslink and hs2 . his answer begin : " you be drag I into quite complex technical detail . " then , he give no complex technical detail . I be sure that the people of Wales would be delighted to tackle any complex technical detail be the Deputy Prime Minister to explain to the House why we be pay £ 5 billion for a white elephant in HS2 , which , by now , come nowhere near our country . it be thank to the strength of our United Kingdom that record sum be go to Wales under the Barnett consequential . indeed , in the spring Budget we increase devolve Administration funding by £ 630 million , which include £ 180 million for the Welsh Government . we be ensure that resource be go to Wales , so that they can enhance their transport infrastructure . if it be not so serious , it would be comical , but in Horning on the Norfolk broad , a whole area be to be totally cut off from a mobile signal until — wait for it — August , because of nesting seagull take up residency in the new telecom mast . gull be protect and the nest can not be move , but if a family holiday on the broad get into distress this summer , they will not be able to make an emergency call . that could be life - threaten , so will the Deputy Prime Minister please help I by call on Natural England to be sensible and make sure that , for public safety reason , we can get a mobile phone mast work in a prime holiday location ? we all love the diversity of wildlife in this country and particularly on the North Norfolk coast , which my hon . friend represent . he make a strong point about the balance between that and ensure that people have access to modern communication facility , and I shall certainly take that up with Natural England . day in , day out , the public and business be hit by endless chaos and confusion across Government Departments — for they , clearly , Britain be not work . paraphrase what the Deputy Prime Minister say early , we know there be a Government reshuffle come up . so will he tell we : be this down to obstruction and incompetence in the civil service , or be it , rather , that so many of their Ministers be just not up to the job ? we can see from the record of this Government , whether on cut NHS waiting list , or on provide record funding for our school and hospital , that we have an excellent team who will continue to serve . last week , we all celebrate the 75th anniversary of the NHS , but hon . member may not be aware that it be also the 75th anniversary of Newton Aycliffe , a new town in my constituency design by William Beveridge . will the Deputy Prime Minister ask the Prime Minister to come and visit I , as his constituency neighbour , and celebrate these 75 year , and indeed the 60 year of the community newspaper provide by the Howarth family ? I can not speak to the Prime Minister ' s diary , although I will make representation . I would be delighted to visit my hon . friend ' s constituency , if he wish I to attend instead . the day I have to phone my bank to tell it that I be have difficulty pay my mortgage be one that have live with I for year . I find that because my income be so low at the time , ironically , I be not eligible to switch to an interest - only mortgage or get any help . I never want my constituent to feel the terror and abandonment that I feel that day . can the Deputy Prime Minister understand that ? the complete lack of empathy in his response to the deputy leader of the SNP group suggest not . I welcome the temporary measure , but they be temporary . this mortgage crisis have be two year in the making . do he and the Prime Minister really think they be go to fix it in 12 month ? it be deeply disturbing , upsetting and worry for anyone to contemplate lose their home . that be exactly why my right hon . friend the Chancellor have introduce the mortgage charter , which 90 % of the mortgage market have now sign up to and which will provide support to people . in addition , after three month , people on universal credit can apply for further support . a Government survey have show that 75 % of british business support improvement to the UK ' s sick pay system . yesterday , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) launch a report , alongside WPI Economics and the Centre for Progressive Change , with idea about how that could be do . will my right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister ensure that we get a meeting with the Chancellor , ahead of the autumn Budget , to see what idea can be develop ? they could provide an economic boost of £ 4 billion to the UK economy . as ever , my hon . friend have make a strong case . the Chancellor be sit next to I and I be quite sure he would be delighted to meet with he . the forced isolation of people in care home or hospital from their love one from the beginning of the pandemic , and its terrible consequence , as well as the many who die alone , have leave a profound trauma . we have learn the hard way that the care of a love one be not an optional extra ; it be an essential part of dignified care . my Care Supporters Bill would guarantee that fundamental right . while the Government recognise that there be a problem , their recently announce consultation relate to visit and not a legal right to a care supporter at all time . would the Deputy Prime Minister speak to the Prime Minister about bring forward legislation in the next king ' s Speech ? the hon . Gentleman be right to highlight the need for care supporter to be able to have that kind of access . I will take away the point he have raise , and raise they with my ministerial colleague . Mr Speaker , you know the value of inter - parliamentary relation and , in particular , the Inter - Parliamentary Union , which be found nearly 135 year ago in this place . we be honour this week to be join by the president of the Inter - Parliamentary Union , Mr Duarte Pacheco . would my right hon . friend join his campaign to get the USA to rejoin this important international organisation ? as my right hon . friend know , the United Kingdom be a found member of the Inter - Parliamentary Union . I would very much like the United States to rejoin and I be happy to help make that case . not a day go by without serious sexual harassment allegation in organisation up and down the country . my private Member ' s Bill on workplace protection from harassment could go a long way to address some of these serious issue . indeed , the Bill have full Government support . it be currently stick in the other place , but a compromise be now in sight , so that the Bill can pass through the House of Lords . our rule require that any amendment make in the House of Lords need to come back to the House of Commons . will the Deputy Prime Minister ensure that a small amount of Government time be make available in this place , between now and the end of the parliamentary Session , to ensure that this important Bill will become law ? as the hon . Lady know , we have support the Bill and we be work on it . my right hon . friend the Minister for Women and Equalities be very happy to meet the hon . Lady to discuss the measure far . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I do not know whether you be as shocked as I be , but the Deputy Prime Minister have the opportunity to correct the record today after he mislead the House on 7 June . he fail to do so . order . as we know , we can not say " mislead " . he must have inadvertently mislead the House . well — no , no , we do it that way . Mr Speaker , the Deputy Prime Minister inadvertently mislead the House , but do not come to correct the record , even though we have make it clear that he have do so . I refer to the idea of £ 28 billion cost mortgage payer £ 1 , 000 a year . the only place that that appear be in the Daily Mail . he be disrespect you , Mr Speaker . he be disrespect Parliament and the House and , accord to the ministerial code , he should now resign . Mr Speaker , can you advise I on this ? he be in breach of the ministerial code — how can I ensure that he resign ? I thank the hon . member for give I notice of her point of order . as I say last week , the responsibility lie with the Minister to make any necessary correction to the record . it be on the Government to look at themselves . if the ministerial code be not be adhere to , I really think that the rule need to be look at again so that Ministers — do not forget that election change Ministers as well — ensure that this House hear the fact . I will leave it at that . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . this be a related point of order . I write to the Prime Minister on 17 January to ask he to support my elect Representatives ( code of Conduct ) Bill , which aim to restore confidence and trust in politic and politician by , among other thing , allow the independent adviser on ministerial standard to commission their own inquiry . unfortunately , I have still have no response from the Prime Minister . I follow this up with a letter on 9 June , which include a series of question about the process by which he decide not to ask his independent adviser to undertake an inquiry into the Home Secretary in relation to she allegedly pressurise official to assist she with a speed offence . I appreciate that we be about a week from recess , so I wonder whether you can advise I , Mr Speaker , on how I can get a timely response from the Prime Minister ? first , let I thank the hon . member for give I notice of her point of order . as she will know , this be not a matter for the Chair , but there be clear expectation that correspondence from hon . member will be deal with within a reasonable timeframe . I stress that member deserve early reply on behalf of their constituent . it be the constituent who put mps in this House . I do not mind which part of the Chamber they come from , but I expect Ministers , who all seem to want the job , to take the job seriously and ensure that hon . member get the reply in due time . I be sure that those on the Treasury Bench be make a key note of this to ensure that that reply will be here before the House rise . I be sure , as I know the hon . member , that she will remind I before the House be up if that reply have not arrive . none the less , I stress that it be time that this Government respect member from all part of this House . it be become apparent that they be disrespectful and it be not acceptable . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I wish to correct the record . during yesterday ' s debate on the Illegal Migration Bill , I inadvertently say that the Minister have remind we that we have take 550 million refugee since 2015 . it be an obvious error . I want to put it on the record that what I mean to say be that the Minister have remind we that we have take 550 , 000 refugee since 2015 — a number of which we can still be proud . I thank the hon . member for give notice of her point of order . I be also grateful that she have come forward to correct the record . I hope that she have set an example for other to follow . I thank she for that . Primary Care Services ( Report ) motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require the Secretary of State to appoint an independent reviewer to prepare a quarterly report contain an assessment of primary care service ; to require the Secretary of State to lay before Parliament each report prepare by the independent reviewer ; to require such report to include the independent reviewer ' s assessment of any measure take to improve general practice service , dental service , community pharmacy service , optometry service , and mental health service ; and for connected purpose . primary care service across the country be in crisis . People can not get a GP appointment when they need one , some pharmacy be close , people be resort to DIY dentistry , and waiting list for mental health appointment be sky high . the Government point to their recent long - term workforce plan as evidence that they be take action , but that plan be only partially fund and will do nothing to increase staff level now . perhaps if the Government have not spend a year whip their mps to vote against any attempt to put a workforce plan into law , they might have make some progress , but we be where we be and it be legitimate for the british public to expect a Government who can plan for the long term while take more immediate measure . to be blunt , it be clear to I that mps on both side of the House be lose patience and be worried about the lack of urgency and action from the Government in fix the front door to our NHS . the Bill seek to force the Government to come clean about the challenge face primary care health service specifically , such as GPs and dentist , by appoint an independent reviewer to report on the state and condition of primary care service every three month so that we can hold the Government ' s foot to the fire on progress . the Bill can not come soon enough for patient . let I start by detail some of the urgent problem in GP service use a story that I have receive from Gareth in Wimbledon . one morning recently , Gareth develop sudden loss of vision in the entire left field in both eye , render he partially blind . Gareth try to get an appointment with his gp , but due to a lack of appointment that day and a non - existent online booking system , he be instruct to call at 8 be the follow morning . it be not until the next day that he manage to get an urgent referral for a brain MRI scan , which confirm that Gareth have suffer a small stroke . with all stroke , the first 72 hour be critical to reduce the chance of subsequent stroke . his gp be undoubtedly deal with hundred of other urgent case that day , but for Gareth , lose 24 hour due to a lack of capacity at his local gp could have be catastrophic . that be the real - world impact of the Government ' s failure to recruit and retain GPs , and their failure to invest in IT infrastructure . let we remember that back in 2019 the Government promise to deliver 6 , 000 more gps . not only do they break that promise , but the number of fully qualified GPs have fall by more than 900 since they make it . those fall number have hit some area hard than other . in place such as Somerset , the fall number of GPs be cause a shortage of appointment . indeed , the number of GPs have fall by 50 since 2016 in the area , and the number of patient per GP have increase by a massive 400 . shockingly , that be far high than in the vast majority of England . in my county of Hertfordshire , there be now 2 , 203 patient per GP . I have hear from Denise , who spend the good part of the day on hold before give up and try the online booking system , which again turn out to be non - existent . while she be on hold for hour on the phone to her gp , by contrast it take just two minute for Denise to book an online appointment at Specsavers . everybody know that the technology exist ; it just have not be fund for our GP service . all that be why the Liberal Democrats have pledge to ensure that we will have 8 , 000 more GPs work in the system within five year , with a campaign not only to train and recruit but to retain experienced practitioner . with that expand workforce , everyone could see their gp within seven day for a first appointment . however , it be not just the number of staff that be put pressure on GP service . the Royal College of General Practitioners ' recent infrastructure report show that 40 % of general practice staff say their premise be not fit for purpose . even when integrate care board want to spend money on primary care infrastructure in city centre , for example , outdated Treasury rule do not allow they to — something that be happen in my St Albans constituency , and which I raise in this Chamber again just yesterday . put retention measure in place , accelerate improvement in IT infrastructure , fix outdated treasury rule on investment in primary care infrastructure be just three of the challenge in general practice on which an independent reviewer could report progress to this House every three month until they be fix . in dentistry , too , we see Government incompetence at work . last year , there be a £ 400 million underspend on the NHS dentistry budget , despite million of people need an appointment and thousand of dentist want to provide NHS care . it be absurd . why be we in this position ? because the contract that the Government offer NHS dentist be so badly design that dentist will not take it on , as they lose money on NHS dental treatment . the Liberal Democrats have be call for reform of the NHS dental contract so that it encourage and incentivise dentist to take on NHS patient , meet patient need and demand rather than arbitrary target and finally put an end to dental desert . just yesterday , the hon . member for Winchester ( Steve Brine ) forewarn the Government that the Health and Social Care Committee , which he chair , would be publish its finding on NHS dentistry , and say that they would make for " uncomfortable reading " . again , locally , in place such Somerset , the real - world impact be that there be now only one dentist deliver NHS dental service for every 1 , 773 people . somerset be among the 10 area of England that have see the big rise in patient per dentist since 2015 , with each dentist now see more than 200 additional people . however , what be truly an outrage be that tooth decay remain the most common reason for hospital admission among young child . it be a question not just of get child the care they need , but of good use of public fund . the cost of treat a child for tooth decay in hospital far exceed that of regular check - up . supervise tooth brushing training for child and remove the value add tax on child ' s toothbrush and toothpaste , as the Liberal Democrats have call for , would make a huge difference and cost next to nothing in comparison with dental surgery . those be thing the Government could be get on with right now . of course , we know that community pharmacy be in crisis too , and we can see the impact that be have . for example , Peter from Winchester use to go to the pharmacy in Sainsbury ' s until this year , when it be close . the location be perfect , with plenty of space to park , and be easily accessible for disabled people . now it be close , Peter must take a special hour - long round trip to the next pharmacy , along heavily congest road to a car park on a hill with only one disabled parking bay . as someone who be mobility impaired , his access to pharmacy service have be severely limited and his independence curtail as a direct result of the pharmacy closure now take place across the country . this situation be completely unsustainable . the Government can not just do a Dorothy ; they can not just click their heel together , say " deliver , deliver , deliver " , and expect that GP and dental service will magically improve . they need to do thing , they need to make decision and they urgently need to improve primary care for patient right around the country . this Bill would in effect be a force mechanism , which would enable mps every three month to hold the Government ' s foot to the fire on their action — or their inaction — on fix the front door to our NHS . give the crisis face our primary care service , it can not come soon enough . question put and agree to . order , that Daisy Cooper , Wera Hobhouse , Tim Farron , Richard Foord and Munira Wilson present the Bill . Daisy Cooper accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 24 November , and to be print ( Bill 352 ) . opposition Day - [ 20th Allotted Day ] opposition Day Automotive Industry I beg to move , that this House recognise that the automotive industry be the jewel in the crown of british manufacturing and believe it can have a bright future create good job for people across the UK ; regret that after 13 year of conservative neglect the UK risk lose this world - class industry , put thousand of job under threat ; condemn the Government for its lack of an industrial strategy and the negative impact this have have on investment in the UK ' s automotive sector ; call on the Government to urgently resolve the rule of origin change which be due to take effect in 2024 , work with partner across Europe to negotiate a deal that work for manufacturer ; and far call on the Government to adopt an active industrial strategy to build the battery factory capacity need to secure the automotive sector for decade to come . it be a real pleasure to open this debate on an issue that I know be close to the heart of many colleague and constituent . many member present represent some of the most iconic name in UK automotive production . for I , it be very much an issue of huge personal significance . sunderland , where I grow up , be of course renowned not just for its wonderful football team but for the tremendous success of the Nissan plant . I be very proud to say that many friend from my childhood still work in that plant . of all the great business that I get to visit , that be one of my absolute favourite , and I know that colleague will feel just as strongly about the part of the automotive industry that they and their constituency be associate with . that industry be full of skilled and committed worker , innovation , export success and huge growth potential . however , we have call this Opposition day debate because even the most ardent defender of the Government could not fail to be worried about the health of the sector as it stand . the british car industry should and could be boom , as should the wide automotive sector , yet production have slump by over a third under the Conservatives . there be huge concern about a series of major policy failure , include domestic battery production facility , trade barrier post Brexit , and high energy cost and other supply chain issue . although this be an Opposition day debate , I know that those concern be share widely across the House , and I hope that , by have this debate , we be able to express the clear political commitment of this House to that crucial sector . my hon . friend will be aware of the world - class Toyota engine plant in my constituency that produce the high - quality hybrid engine — one of the first plant outside Japan to do so . do he agree that hybrid be part of the solution , not , as the Government think , part of the problem ? I do not know whether I be suppose to declare an interest , but I drive a Toyota hybrid myself — I have a large family and have to get between Manchester and London , and that be a pretty sound option for do so . I be aware of the issue that my hon . friend raise , as be the shadow Transport Secretary , my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield , Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) . we must be careful to ensure that there be certainty so that that transition we be all seek can happen . I know that there be particular issue relate to that sector and that side of the industry . we be alert to those issue , and we will , of course , work with he , his constituent and the expertise in this country and beyond to ensure that that timescale be do properly . for many people seek to make the transition — we be see a huge response from the public on that — that be the option that be currently available , particularly for family . we must bear in mind that the solution have to be something that work for all our constituent , and we must be cognisant of their concern . I be grateful to he for raise that point at this stage of the debate . I worry at time that the Government , and maybe especially the Secretary of State for Business and Trade , do not have a great deal of time for industry at all . artificial intelligence , tech and financial service be all crucial sector , but we should not for one moment think that there be no role for industry . nor should we ever believe that there be a false choice between service and manufacturing . support for the automotive sector be not nostalgia . many of the plant that we will talk about in the debate be the lifeblood of their community , provide good work and good wage . however , just as in other crucial industry — steel be another good example — I get no sense that secure the long - term future of the sector and manage the transition to a low - carbon economy be priority for the Government . that be not just the view of the Labour party ; it be what industry itself have be tell the Government . Mike Hawes of the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders say at its recent conference : " we … need a … response urgently " . Stellantis have warn that : " if the cost of ev manufacturing in the U . k . become uncompetitive and unsustainable , operation will close . " the automotive industry face a series of challenge that must be take seriously . the rule of origin , which be due to come into force from January next year , will require 45 % of a vehicle ' s value to be make in the UK or the EU or a 10 % tariff will be impose that will destroy most profit margin entirely . of course , those requirement increase significantly over time . we have a lack of progress on battery manufacturing ; Germany already have 10 time the battery - make capacity of the UK . we have wide business challenge , include the high industrial energy cost in the G7 , and rise inflation and borrowing cost . however , what we have see from other country be that none of those challenge be insurmountable . other country be pull ahead . China be home to numerous battery giant such as CATL and BYD , while the United States famously have Tesla . but the EU have also ramp up battery production through initiative such as the European Battery Alliance and how have 35 battery factory in place . in contrast , the UK be yet to develop a robust battery manufacturing sector , which make we heavily reliant on import and risk the long - term presence of automotive production in this country . I think we all recognise that , over time , vehicle will be build where the battery be make , not the other way around . we will never be able to match the sheer fiscal firepower of the US Inflation Reduction Act , but we do have advantage — competitive advantage on workforce and skill , and on research and development — and if we have a Government with sufficient political commitment , the future could be very bright indeed . last month , I visit the new Caterham Cars production plant in my constituency , to which the company have have to move because its production be insufficient to meet the demand that it have at the moment . it will take on more employee and apprentice , and it will manufacture more of the vehicle for which it be famous . I remind the shadow Secretary of State that that expansion in the industry have happen under a Conservative Government . do he welcome that news ? I be incredibly happy to welcome that news and the positive story that the hon . member set out , but I do not think that any of the success that he have see detract from the fact that there be significant policy challenge . the overall number of vehicle have decline , as he will know , and yes , the pandemic and the semi - conductor supply chain issue happen , but that do not remove the need for this House to take seriously the rule of origin , the battery - make capacity and so on . we be not in any way on track . there be also , frankly , the international competitive position . other country be simply indicate that they want those industry and that investment much more than we do . it be not so much that the conservative party have turn up to a gunfight with a knife , but that it be not show up to the fight at all . what we need be a plan of action . that be what the Labour party have develop , and it be what we want the chance to implement should we form the next government . our plan address battery capacity and charge infrastructure , as well as key issue such as planning and grid regulation . we be up front about the challenge that we face , but we be ambitious for the future . frankly , that be nothing short of what be require . our plan start with have an active industrial strategy . I know that some conservative do not like that kind of terminology , but I say simply that all country need an industrial strategy . to go back to the example of Nissan , that be part of an explicit strategy — by even Margaret Thatcher ' s Government — to attract automotive expertise to the UK . the absence of any coherent modern industrial strategy be hurt investment into the UK . other country be simply push ahead , recognise that the challenge that we be face have to be meet nationally by government with skin in the game . industry be cry out , first , for stability , and secondly , for a partner and some clear policy signal . that be exactly what it will get from a Labour Government . that be why we have say that we would put the new Industrial Strategy Council on a statutory footing , give some reassurance that the instability of the conservative year be at an end . our green prosperity plan will part - fund the battery - make gigafactorie that be so essential to our future . that will be catalytic public investment to unlock the much great sum of private investment we need . the reality be that no battery factory in the world have be develop without that kind of government commitment . we know that the Government be in talk with some firm about potential investment decision , and I say in good faith to Ministers , " that be good . we want you to succeed . " where those company need assurance from the opposition should a change of Government occur , we will of course have those talk . however , it would be far well and a far well deal for the taxpayer to make those offer publicly , and to be negotiate with a range of potential partner to get the good deal for Britain , because domestic battery production be so important . could the shadow Minister clarify how many gigafactorie this Government have enable to be build in the UK ? I be more than happy to . my hon . friend will know that we currently have one facility , which be the Envision facility at Nissan in Sunderland . the overall number will depend on how big those factory be , but broadly we will need three to four in the interim , and by 2040 we will need eight to 10 . Germany , for instance , already have four to five gigafactorie up and run . a further four be almost up and run , and it be in talk for a further advance on that position . the sense be that Germany be genuinely 10 time ahead of we in that capacity , and while people might think , " well , Germany be a country with incredible automotive history , reputation and strength " , there be other country that we be already lose out to . Spain , for instance , have a very active industrial strategy when it come to the automotive sector , and eastern Europe have have tremendous success in that area . because automotive be about regional market , simply see what other country be do will have huge consequence for the potential for investment in this country . crucially , we should be play to the UK ' s strength in area such as research and development , like the fantastic programme at the UK Battery Industrialisation Centre in Warwick , which my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield , Heeley and I be able to visit recently . my hon . friend have rightly talk about produce battery , but the position with hydrogen be very similar : if we look at what Germany be do , particularly with bus and big vehicle , we be year behind . we really need to invest in that area . I thoroughly agree — the scale of ambition that I see around the world daunt I when I compare it with this Government ' s ambition . there be some incredibly exciting technology out there , include sodium - ion battery that would reduce our dependence on lithium and almost certainly cut cost in battery production . hydrogen be clearly go to be extremely exciting , as be fuel cell , and there be market for off - road vehicle that could be huge potential market for the UK . we should also not forget bus : that be an area in which new technology could contribute to thing like clean air , as well as well transport . do the shadow Minister agree that on top of battery innovation and hydrogen innovation , the UK be lead in another field : that of synthetic fuel ? however , give the automotive sector a really strong future in this country involve a whole - system analysis , not just of how the vehicle be manufacture but how the energy that will run it be manufacture . that involve look again at the zero tailpipe standard that be come in , because if we have that whole - system analysis , we will get to green technology and greener transport but with a whole - picture effect . I agree with part of what the hon . Gentleman have say . I agree about the whole - system analysis : many part of the decarbonisation journey that industry will need to take on will be a much big question than simply unplug one form of old fossil fuel technology and plug in another . for instance , the steel industry will have to think about scrap if it be to make the conversion to electric arc furnace ; and if we be to move towards synthetic fuel , we will clearly have to look at where the feed stock be come from . however , one of the most defining feature of the past 13 year — I say this without any kind of partisanship — have be a series of very ambitious target from this Government in area that relate to decarbonisation , but with no real mean to deliver they . that target be then pull away , and confidence in the british state to decarbonise fall apart . I be think particularly about the famous " cut the green crap " comment from the former Prime Minister , David Cameron , regard home insulation . when we talk about change exist government policy , we should not underestimate just how little confidence the international business community have in this Government ' s promise at time . broadly , the approach have be very ambitious target but with no mean to actually deliver they , which undermine the case . my hon . friend be make a very effective speech . as he be talk about target , will he come on to the roll - out of charge point ? my constituency have three motorway in it and incredibly high level of pollution . we need to remove all the barrier , both to net zero and to reduce that pollution . do my hon . friend agree that constituency in the north such as mine need that situation address ? it be shameful that , as I understand it , more charger be instal in Westminster this year than across the whole of the north of England . we in the north have those issue of pollution , and we need to move fast in address they . my hon . friend may be plan to come on to that point , but it be an important one . I be incredibly grateful to my hon . friend for make those point . the approach of the Front Bench — from she , from I on industrial policy , and from my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield , Heeley on transport policy — must bring those two thing together . we need the policy in place that will make this country a world leader in the production of vehicle and ensure that it also work for consumer . she raise the fact that there be more charge point in Westminster — I know my hon . friend ' s constituency , which be not far from mine — and the difference between comparable part of this country , north and south , in the level , density and availability of charger be unthinkable , let alone in comparison with Norway , for instance . not only do we not have enough charger but grid , maintenance and connection issue often mean they be out of order . I absolutely assure my hon . friend that when we as a shadow Cabinet and a potential Government think about these issue , both vehicle production and consumer be paramount . clearly , consumer want to purchase electric vehicle — that be the growth part of the market — but too often we do not have the infrastructure in place . it can not be some form of novelty . I have drive electric vehicle around Greater Manchester when it be something of a novelty — I could get access to charger and , at time , preferential parking space near Deansgate , which be no small thing — but for mass market usage , neither the policy nor the infrastructure be yet in place . that need to be widely recognise . on the international trade position , it be always imperative to have a domestic battery industry , but it have become an existential issue because of the Government ' s approach to our trading relationship with the EU . as discuss in relation to regional export market , eight in 10 vehicle make in the UK last year be export , so it be widely recognise that the impending cliff edge in the trade and co - operation agreement with the EU on rule of origin be a serious challenge to the future of the sector in the UK . the Government have be far too slow to realise the scale of that danger , and while they may promise that a deal be come soon , I be afraid that " soon " can not come soon enough . major UK manufacturer include Stellantis , Jaguar Land Rover and Ford have all warn that a failure to reach a deal would cost job in the UK . it have be two and a half year since the trade and co - operation agreement be formally sign . that be precious time that could have be use to plan and prepare , but those be two word that this government often fail to understand . what have they do in that time ? they have not secure investment in battery capacity . they have not improve our relationship with our big export market , and they certainly have not work with industry to find solution . we know that a breakthrough be need , and we would use our plan to make Brexit work to ensure that the rule of origin work for british manufacturer . we can not achieve a compromise without work with our partner in Europe , and I believe that only Labour can be that good - faith partner . our plan to invest in battery capacity , alongside compromise on the rule of origin , be the sensible way forward to meet our climate objective and trade obligation and retain our industrial base . we will make the UK a clean energy superpower by 2030 , with net zero carbon electricity lower cost for the UK car industry by no long leave UK industry prone to the volatility of international gas price , alongside well grid connection and planning reform to ensure that " make in Britain " do not become a thing of the past . that be the prospectus for action we need . right now , this country need some optimism . the mantra of this Government — that this be as good as it get — be as depressing as it be wrong . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? go on , then . there be a news report about a new global company be launch by the french motor giant Renault and the chinese manufacturer geely that will invest € 7 billion here , create 19 , 000 job . be that not exactly the kind of optimism Conservative Members talk about ? I think those company must have see the opinion poll and be wonder whether a Labour Government be come , if there be as positive news as that could be . I would simply say to all Conservative Members that , on any aspect of industrial policy , there be too often on their side a desire to pick individual story or statistic and try to pretend that substantial and significant issue do not exist . if we talk to anybody reasonably objective in this sector , they will point out — on battery production , rule of origin , charge infrastructure , industrial energy price — that there be real challenge and they require some serious engagement from the other side , which to date have not be forthcoming . I would like to add to that comment — my hon . friend be make an excellent speech , by the way — what be say at the industry conference hold by the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders a couple of week ago . the industry be speak as one , and I be afraid it be critical of the Government , say , " all these year on , remember that Baldrick at least have a cunning plan . sadly , the Government don ' t . " I follow that conference very closely — my hon . friend the shadow Transport Secretary speak at the conference , and I have speak at that conference in the past — and that be absolutely the sentiment . perhaps humility do not come easily to conservative mp , but I ask they to take on board those genuine view from the industry on the situation we find ourselves in . the automotive sector could be a practical illustration of the transition to new job and new opportunity that we all want to see . we have lay out our plan for the sector . some conservative colleague may disagree , but let we have from they some alternative proposal , because the status quo will not do . our motion be a plan to deliver £ 30 billion in economic growth in the part of the country that need it most . it be a plan that could create 80 , 000 additional job — good job of the kind that people can raise their family on . it be a plan for Britain that would mean we once again lead the pack and feel confident for the future . I believe the choice be clear — a plan under Labour or further decline under the Conservatives — and I think we all know whom the public would prefer behind the wheel . what a disappointing opening speech . there be an opportunity to praise , promote and protect the automotive sector — and to talk about all the positive news story — but all we have hear for the last 10 or 15 minute be the automotive sector be talk down . I appreciate that the timing of this debate have not go well for the opposition : as my hon . friend the Member for Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) mention , today we have hear about the Renault Group and geely have choose the UK as the headquarters of a new company develop ultra low emission engine and potentially invest billion of pound in the UK — up to € 7 billion . that show not only the confidence of the automotive sector , but its commitment to the UK , and these be the opportunity or the story we should be talk about . the hon . member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) constantly reference the smmt statistic , but he forget to mention the one he should have report at the Dispatch Box so that we could once again promote how healthy and dynamic the automotive sector be . car production in Britain rise for a fourth straight month in May . the smmt have confirm that a total of 79 , 046 car roll out of the factory gate a few month ago , which be an increase of more than 26 % . passenger car number be boost by a great appetite for hybrid electric motor build in Britain . the boss at the SMMT have say that , while there have of course be challenge around the world , manufacturer have " defy the challenging economic backdrop to fulfil customer demand for the late British - build model , at home and overseas , " so that manufacturing and production be indeed up . this be a positive news story , and any opportunity we have to speak about the automotive sector should be positive , not negative or all about political point scoring . this be a serious topic and a serious industry . I know the hon . Gentleman be keen to be very ideological within the Westminster bubble , but I would suggest he step a little outside it . I know my hon . friend the Member for South Derbyshire ( Mrs Wheeler ) , who be a champion for Toyota , which have the large manufacturing plant in her constituency , would welcome a visit by Labour Members so they can see how the sector be boom just in her constituency . there be over 2 , 000 people work at the plant in South Derbyshire and involve in the supply chain , and 80 % of the car manufacture be export to Europe . export be up , by the way , which I will get on to . Toyota continue to innovate and it be at the forefront of produce hybrid car . it have be cut emission for over a decade and take net zero seriously , have energy from solar panel all around the plant . the point she would want to make be , " get out of the Westminster bubble , visit South Derbyshire , see what be happen at Toyota " — and at many other firm , as I will go on to say — " and you will see the work be go well . " our job be to protect , promote and praise , not to talk the sector down . it be all very well and good talk about optimism , but do the Minister accept the reality face the automotive industry in the UK today , and the stark warning give by Stellantis about future job loss if the Government do not sort out the rule of origin problem ? I want to state for the record — and for the hon . Lady , who be obviously sit there while I be speak — that that be not optimism . those be the fact and figure promote not by Government , but by industry representative . I have a meeting with Stellantis recently . we know that a number of challenge be reflect globally , not just in the UK , such as be able to recruit into the sector . the hon . member for Stalybridge and Hyde miss another opportunity to talk about the fantastic job that be available . of course , on rule of origin , that be an issue not just in the UK ; it be an issue for lot of other country that want to export and import , too . the Minister talk about the importance of the Toyota factory . in my constituency , I have the engine plant , which produce quality hybrid engine . why be this Government oppose to hybrid engine ? this Government have a strong mandate to reach net zero and the consultation have just take place on say mandate . the right hon . Member will know that I have be spend a lot time with the automotive sector , include take delegation to meet the Minister of State , Department for Transport , my right hon . friend the Member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) , who will be oversee that . my job — I also chair the Automotive Council — be to champion business , and on occasion to try to remove all the barrier it need remove for it to manufacture more and export more . I know that the Transport Minister will be speak more about that later . I will get on to all point the hon . member for Stalybridge and Hyde raise , but he mention grow up in Sunderland . just for the record — I can see there be a Birmingham MP here , the hon . member for Birmingham , Perry Barr ( Mr Mahmood ) — I grow up in Birmingham very close to a car plant that employ many member of my family , include my brother Nasim , so this sector be very close to my heart . I have be tell not to make any football joke about Birmingham and Sunderland at this point ; I will leave that for the final speech . will the Minister give way ? be it on a football point , because I will not be able to handle that ? if it be not on a football point , I will take the intervention . this point be not about football ; it be about the debate . to pick up on the Minister ' s analysis , she be correct on the statistic she give about the UK market . she will know that we start from a pretty poor base post the pandemic and that our production be particularly hit , but other country recover well . it be an international market that be fight for investment — I be sure she will accept that — and that be why it be of concern . it be an international market that be fight for supply chain . the smmt be clear that , when manufacturing production be low , that be down to access to product and critical mineral , which I will come on to . as well as take care of the industry , I be responsible for critical mineral and for supply chain . we be work with the industry , which I meet just this morning , to put together a supply chain import strategy , which will be out in the autumn . we need to get a number of thing right to make it even easy for the sector to do even well than it already be , but it be in a really good place and I will go on to mention some of the fact and story about that . the sector be indeed a jewel in the crown of our economy . it be vital , because of where it be base across the country , to support the levelling - up agenda , net zero and advance global Britain . our automotive industry employ 166 , 000 people , add over £ 70 billion to the UK economy and be our second large exporter of good . the UK be proud to be home to major global manufacturer such as JLR , Nissan , Stellantis , Toyota , BMW and Ford . but that be not the whole of the UK ' s automotive eco - system : we have a lot more to be proud of , from our luxury and performance sector , include Rolls - Royce , Bentley , Aston Martin , McLaren and Lotus , to heavy good vehicle and bus , such as Leyland Trucks , Wrightbus , Alexander Dennis and Switch , as well as the future of mobility , encompass connected and autonomous vehicle . those manufacturer be support by a diverse , resilient and grow UK supply chain that span a wide range of component and include company such as Bosch , NSK , Meritor and Swindon Pressings . these be value partnership , and the sector know that my Department for Business and Trade be the Government ' s first port of call to help business grow and flourish , and to create job , apprenticeship and opportunity around the country . I thank the Minister for be generous with her time . all the manufacturer that she mention face a cliff edge in January 2024 , with the 10 % tariff . what be the Government go to do about it ? it be desperate in term of those job in our community . I assume that the hon . Member be refer to the rule of origin tariff . that be why we be work hard and negotiate with the EU , and work with our partner representative group within the EU , so that they can be lobby as well . this be not just an issue in the UK . this be a european issue too , and we be make sure that those voice be hear loud and clear with our partner across Europe . I have a specific question for clarity : have the Government formally request a reopening of the rule of origin for 2024 ? the Government be work hard to share the challenge that will be face by all manufacturer in Europe , not just the UK , when it come to import and export vehicle . this be not just a UK issue , and it be important that not just we but our counterpart in Europe make these argument loud and clear to the EU . I recently meet smmt and ask that its sister body do the same where they reside in european country , to ensure that those argument be hear loud and clear . as I say , there be huge diversity of company within the supply chain and manufacturing of all automotive vehicle , and the UK have a full automotive eco - system across the UK . the sector be here because it recognise the UK ' s unique strength . our engineer be world class — it be not for nothing that six out of a total of 10 Formula 1 team be base in the UK . more broadly , the sector recognise that this Government have its back . we want to use innovation , skill and a competitive business environment to ensure that the UK automotive sector can thrive . I be grateful to the Minister , because she allude to the point that I be make about the automotive industry . we have talk a lot about manufacturing , but the UK be the world leader in thing such as research and development , as well as in testing — autonomous testing , safety testing ; we be literally the world leader in this stuff . I mainly know that because a lot of it be base in my patch . do the Minister agree ? I could not disagree with my hon . friend , who be a champion for all thing technology and transport , as well as for his constituency . the investment make in R & D have enable large manufacturing firm to work closely with our academic institution , and to de - risk some of the technology that be now become mainstream , and we continue to support that area . that lead on to my next point about the Advanced Propulsion Centre and the automotive transformation fund , which be key in we try to de - risk and adopt new technology to drive the sector forward . on the Automotive Council , the hon . member for Stalybridge and Hyde say that he be engage with the sector , but I be not quite sure where and when . a lot of the comment he make will not go down well with the sector because they be not very positive on all the work it have be do . I engage directly with firm to see how hard they be commit to the sector , and what they expect from their politician be support , not to be talk down . I put on record my thank to Graham Hoare , the current co - chair , Mike Hawes , Neville Jackson , Ian Constance , Markus Gr ü neisl , Paul Willcox , Murray Paul , Adrian Hallmark , Michael Leiters , Tim Slatter , Alan Johnson , Richard Kenworthy and many other indispensable member of the Automotive Council . I thank they for all the work they do , consider how challenging time have be not just for we but for our counterpart in Europe . I recently speak at the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Trader ' s parliamentary reception , and I welcome its " Manifesto 2030 " with its five key priority : green automotive transformation strategy , net zero mobility , green skill , make in Britain , and power UK clean tech . there be a lot that we agree on , and I look forward to work with the sector to try to protect and strengthen the whole automotive industry . car company want to innovate , and we want to support they to do so . that be why the Government have an overarching goal of make the UK a global hub for innovation , as allude to by the my hon . friend the Member for Bosworth . in embrace that innovation — this be further to my intervention on the shadow Minister — the UK be a leader in the development of the synthetic fuel sector . by that , I do not mean fuel make from feedstock ; I mean green hydrogen merge with atmospheric carbon capture , whereby what come out of the tailpipe be the same volume of carbon that be then recapture to make the next load of fuel . with whole system analysis , that will be show to be net zero , but the zero tailpipe mandate get in the way of that . do the Minister agree that , to embrace this innovation properly and to give an eclectic future to the automotive sector , we need to embrace those innovator as well ? we do need to embrace those innovator . one of the reason we have so much investment in the UK in innovation and the automotive sector be that we be often first out of the door in help to de - risk and test that technology . the Minister of State , Department for Transport , my right hon . friend the Member for Hereford and South Herefordshire , will touch on tailing , but just last week I be at the low Thames Crossing , which be put out a pitch to ensure that all vehicle on the construction site have green hydrogen . the several thousand vehicle movement on and off the site carry freight will also have green hydrogen . the site be a port , and give the level of construction that be take place , it may be one of the large construction site to get to green hydrogen first . I be not sure , but I think it be pretty well on track to be a world leader in that . the UK - wide innovation strategy set out our long - term plan for deliver innovation - lead growth . our primary objective be to boost private sector investment across the whole UK , create the right condition for all business to innovate , give they confidence to do so and ensure that we be lead the future by create it . will the Minister come on to the point that I raise with my hon . friend the Member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) about the roll - out of charge point ? that be an important point . People be make decision about electric vehicle , and we want they to make the right decision . there be an absolute dearth of charge point in my constituency and many part of Greater Manchester , and Westminster have instal more public electric charging point than the whole north of England . the Government be asleep at the wheel . when will they wake up and do something about that ? we be top and tail this debate with a Transport Minister and I know he be keen to touch on charge point , but the public charge network be grow quickly , and public charging device have more than triple in four year , from 10 , 300 device in January 2019 , to more than 43 , 000 in June 2023 . the Government expect that around 300 , 000 charge point will be need as a minimum by 2030 . they be be roll out at pace , but I do not doubt there will be constituency , case - by - case charge point concern and the Minister will reflect on those . one concern that the smmt and all member of Parliament who have manufacture plant in their constituency regularly raise with I be access to talent . car company need highly skilled individual across the entirety of their business . one reason the UK be attractive be our world - lead university , with four UK institution in the global top 10 , accord to the QS world university ranking . but that be not all . we have support the automotive sector through the apprenticeship levy , with £ 2 . 7 billion funding by the 2024 - 25 financial year . that will support apprenticeship in non - levy employer , often sme , where the Government will continue to pay 95 % of apprentice training cost . we recognise the importance of a level playing field . that be why , at the spring Budget , the Chancellor launch a new capital allowance offer . business will now benefit from full expensing , which offer 100 % first - year relief to company on qualify new main - rate plant and machinery investment from 1 April 2023 until 31 March 2026 , the 50 % first - year allowance for expenditure by company on new special rate asset until 31 March 2026 , and the annual investment allowance , which provide 100 % first - year relief for plant and machinery investment up to £ 1 million . due to Putin ' s invasion of Ukraine , energy cost have be an issue and a concern for the sector . that be why we have again intervene on behalf of the automotive sector , as well as many other , to ensure that the UK ' s offer be competitive . it be why the Government have implement a range of target measure to ensure that energy cost for high energy intensive industry , include battery manufacturing , be in line with other major economy around the world , level the play field for british company across Europe through the british industry supercharger scheme . in addition , to take just one example , the industrial energy transformation fund , now in its third phase , be design to help business with high energy use to cut their energy bill and carbon emission by invest in energy - efficient and low - carbon technology . this Government announce £ 315 million of funding in the 2018 Budget available up to 2027 . the hon . member for Stalybridge and Hyde talk about provide confidence and support for the sector , and I want to flesh out some of the announcement he be unable to bring himself to say at the Dispatch Box in case that be put into Hansard . company continue to show confidence in the UK , and we have announce major investment across the UK , include the £ 1 billion from Nissan and Envision to create an ev manufacturing hub in Sunderland . I be just on the phone to Envision this morning . it be an end - to - end supply chain . we have £ 100 million from Stellantis for its site in Ellesmere Port , and £ 380 million from Ford to make Halewood its first ev component site in Europe . Jaguar Land Rover have also announce that it will be invest £ 15 billion over five year into its industrial footprint as part of its move towards electrification . that be great news for the west midland , where JLR have three production site , research and development facility , and its headquarters . I be hugely confident that the UK will continue to attract investment large and small to enable the ev transition and deliver green job . those be the story we should be promote at the Dispatch Box , not play down . the Government recognise the concern of the sector , and we be deal with serious global challenge , include rise cost because of Putin ' s horrific war in Ukraine , supply chain disrupt by covid aftershock and country turn inward towards protectionism , by which , of course , I mean the Inflation Reduction Act . acknowledge those issue , over the course of the summer I have be hold a series of business roundtable to understand exactly where the challenge in supply chain be most acute , and where the Government and business can work together more closely to ensure that the UK ' s supply chain be resilient , now and in the future . those headwind have be feel across the globe , and where the UK sector have be impact , it have not be uniquely impact . the entire automotive sector be midway through a once - in - a - lifetime shift away from the internal combustion engine towards zero - emission vehicle . that be good not just for our net zero ambition ; it also have the potential to provide wide economic and social benefit . of course , our competitor know that too , and the race to secure zero - emission manufacturing capacity across the world be fierce . some country seem willing to spend eye - watering amount . we will be offer target investment in the future of the auto manufacturing sector . that mean focus on exactly where we know we be ahead of the game internationally , offer target and measure support that reflect the size and scale of our outstanding automotive sector . as I have say , we have more than a chequebook to attract company to these shore ; our highly productive and skilled workforce , focus on innovation and tech and the ease of do business be key factor in a company ' s decision to base itself in the UK . there be a backdrop of intensely challenging constraint on the sector globally , while the sector be undergo a seismic technological transformation . it be clearly a difficult situation for manufacturer across the world , but there be positive to be consider , especially here in the UK . the smmt report that UK commercial vehicle production have just have its good May performance since 2008 , grow by 36 . 9 % — I think the hon . member for Stalybridge and Hyde might crack a smile for the sector — and year - to - date output be some 47 . 6 % above the pre - pandemic level of 2019 . that be the message we want to send internationally . it clearly show that the UK automotive sector be strong , dynamic and fundamentally capable . I want the UK to have a thriving automotive industry . as we take on these global challenge , we will take they on together with the sector . some mention be make of r & D support , and I will share all the work we have do . our R & D and capital programme deliver through the Advanced Propulsion Centre and the automotive transformation fund be position the UK as one of the good place in the world to design , develop and build zero - emission vehicle . they be work together to support the creation of an internationally competitive electric vehicle supply chain . in the come month , after engagement with industry , the Government will build on those programme to take decisive action and ensure future investment in the manufacture of zero - emission vehicle , as part of our commitment to build a clean , green , more sustainable Britain fit for the world of the future , not the world of the past that the hon . member for Stalybridge and Hyde be fixate on . the automotive transformation fund support the creation of an internationally competitive electric vehicle supply chain in the UK . it provide support to late - stage R & D and capital investment in strategically important technology . that include unlock strategic investment in gigafactorie , which I will come to , motor and drive , power electronic and fuel cell system . our automotive industry have a long and proud history . we be determined to build on our heritage as we invest in the technology of the future , position the UK as one of the good location in the world to manufacture electric vehicle . I have speak previously about the Advanced Propulsion Centre , because it do fantastic work in drive technology forward . it be found in 2013 as a £ 1 billion joint venture between the automotive industry and the Government to help the industry meet the challenge of innovation and decarbonisation . it facilitate funding to UK - base research and development project develop zero - emission technology . the programme help accelerate the development , commercialising and manufacture of advanced propulsion technology in the UK . so far , it have support 199 project involve 450 partner . it be estimate to have support more than 55 , 000 highly skilled job and be project to save more than 350 million tonne of co2 — the equivalent of remove the lifetime emission of 14 . 1 million car . those project include the setting up of a joint venture between Unipart and Williams Advanced Engineering to manufacture battery in Coventry , Danfoss set up a centre of excellence for hydraulic R & D at its plant in Scotland , and equipmake increase the size of its manufacture plant in Norfolk to meet demand for its electric drive unit . that show how much work can be deliver and how many job create if we work with industry and help it de - risk in adopt new technology . I recently visit the Warwick Manufacturing Group , which the hon . member for Stalybridge and Hyde allude to . I be surprised he do not applaud the work far . he do . he could have go far . I see at first hand the cutting - edge future mobility research be do in Coventry , the birthplace of british motor manufacturing . while in Coventry , I also have the opportunity to attend the Advanced Propulsion Centre to discuss how we can build on the success of our exist R & D and capital investment programme . during the visit I meet year 6 pupil from Templars Primary School in Coventry who attend the Advanced Propulsion Centre ' s STEM day . that be a prime example of outreach activity to inspire the next generation of automotive engineer . we can not talk about the automotive sector without think about the broad supply chain and one of my particular passion , critical mineral , which I be surprised the hon . member for Stalybridge and Hyde do not spend more time discuss . he miss out the key point of what be need to produce electric vehicle . we know that China dominate the ev market , partly due to its grip on the supply chain . it control much of the mining of crucial raw material , and 80 % of battery making for EVs be control by chinese firm . it be also the world ' s top car exporter . I be not sure whether the hon . Member have have time to read Ed Conway ' s recent book , " Material World " , which make some key point on lithium . we know that reserve of the metal be concentrate in a handful of nation . in his book , he say that lithium reserve be concentrate in " a handful of nation " , so that " while the rest of the world panic about China ' s dominance of the battery supply chain , many in Beijing be simultaneously panic about China ' s reliance on the rest of the world ' s raw material . " we know that an ev car battery contain 40 kg of lithium , 10 kg of cobalt , 10 kg of manganese and 40 kg of nickel , and that be before we consider the graphite that go into the anode . those material have to come from somewhere , which be why we update our critical mineral strategy in the " Critical Minerals Refresh " — [ interruption . ] that be a positive noise from the hon . member — to ensure we be support the sector through the whole supply chain . I encourage colleague to read Ed Conway ' s book . I be not on commission , by the way ; it be just a good read . the hon . member for Stalybridge and Hyde talk about not have a strategy , but we be work with industry to make sure it can plan for the future . to do that , we have the " Critical Minerals Refresh " , which come from the integrated review . we be make sure that we be focus on battery and the EV supply chain here in the UK . recent good news that the hon . Member also forget to mention be the joint venture between British Lithium and Imerys , announce on 29 June . that be a massive boost to the critical mineral supply chain in the UK . by the end of the decade , the development of Cornwall as the UK ' s lead lithium hub will supply enough lithium carbonate for 500 , 000 electric car a year . to help secure the supply of critical mineral , the Government have not only refresh our critical mineral strategy , but put in place a task and finish group to work with industry so that it can highlight its particular vulnerability and we can provide it with the confidence and resilience it need in its supply chain . most recently , I visit Indonesia , where I meet Indonesian Ministers to emphasise that the UK have a lot to offer on critical mineral , particularly in relation to private finance , environmental , social and governance capability , and mining service . I also visit key mine site and meet company that be critical in the battery supply chain and in critical mineral production , include some innovative UK company showcase the good of british — I know that sentence would be hard for the hon . member for Stalybridge and Hyde ever to put on the record . this year , I have also visit South Africa , where I represent the UK at the Minerals Security Partnership ministerial meeting and confirm the UK ' s intention to host the next such meeting during London Metal Exchange Week in October . I also visit Canada , where I sign the UK - Canada critical mineral statement of intent and launch our critical mineral dialogue with Canada , forge a key partnership with one of the most important global player in the critical mineral ecosystem . the hon . Member will want to have a moment to reflect on and applaud our work internationally and domestically on critical mineral . any other country ? so many — too many to list right now . we also need to look at battery recycling . we want to create a regulatory space that support the appropriate treatment of ev battery . the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs be currently review exist UK battery legislation and work at pace to publish a consultation in the second half of 2023 . we have also fund the Faraday battery challenge , which have enable research into the safe and efficient segregation and repurposing of ev battery cell component . altilium be explore how to recover the critical metal from old ev battery and process they effectively so that they can be reuse in new battery . reblend aim to develop the core process and capability for a UK - base automotive battery recycling industry that can recover cathode material from production scrap and end - of - life automotive and consumer battery for reuse in automotive battery go forward . we be not only try to get close to host country and make sure that we be mine ethically , but see how we can ensure that we be recycle battery . the Minister of State at the Department for Transport , my right hon . friend the Member for Hereford and South Herefordshire , will touch on a few issue about the zero - emission vehicle mandate , so I will quickly touch on rule of origin . to support the transition , we must not only champion innovation but address all barrier to trade with partner and market all over the world . our close trading partner be of course the EU , with whom we share not only climate goal and a trajectory towards electrification , but deeply integrate supply chain . More than 50 % of car manufacture in the UK and export be destine for EU consumer . for those reason , I be work closely with the industry to address its concern about plan change to the rule of origin for electric vehicle in the trade and co - operation agreement between the UK and EU . since sign the deal , unforeseen and share supply chain shock have hit the auto industry hard . that have drive up the cost of raw material and battery component , make it hard to meet the change rule . that risk industry on both side face tariff on electric vehicle at a crucial time in the transition to electrification . I be determined to seek a solution to this share problem and will work with the EU to fix it for 2024 . the Prime Minister have raise the issue directly with European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen , and I and other Ministers be engage with our EU counterpart . we will continue to work closely with industry to address any and all blocker to the electric transition so that our great UK auto industry continue to benefit from access to global market and UK consumer have the good possible option as we make the switch to electric vehicle . I want to touch on hydrogen , but I believe I be run out of time . I be also go to reflect on success in the aerospace sector , which be very much link to the automotive sector , but I will not because I can see that you would like I to conclude , Madam Deputy Speaker . order . for the sake of clarity , there be plenty of time for the debate and the hon . Lady can take as long as she want . she have so far hold the floor for 32 minute . it be not for I to judge how long she ought to speak for ; it be for she to judge the mood of the House . well , I think the mood of the House be to be more positive about the automotive sector . I could list even more story , but I will conclude because I believe that Opposition Members would despair about all the positivity about the automotive sector that we could talk about and reflect on . we be home to more than 25 manufacturer that build more than 70 different vehicle in the UK , all of which be support by 2 , 500 component provider and some of the world ' s most skilled engineer . it be incredibly important to reflect how difficult it have be for the automotive sector globally , but of course we have huge success story here in the UK . in 2022 we export vehicle to more than 130 different country and build more than three quarter of a million car , with the onwards trajectory rise year on year . this be a healthy sector go above and beyond not only to reskill and upskill , but to meet net zero target . the Government be support the UK automotive industry , and the sector be a stalwart example of innovation and dynamism to the rest of the world . it be a great sector to get into , whether someone join it as an apprentice or even by take on a regular job . of course , there be more to do . there be more opportunity to secure as we transition to zero - emission vehicle and we realise the potential of connected and autonomous mobility . we have already achieve a great deal in partnership with this fantastic sector , but we be determined to do more . we work with the sector — we do not sit in Westminster come up with plan that we then u - turn on — and that have give the sector the confidence it need to continue to invest in the UK . the job of those represent the sector be to praise , promote and protect , not to talk the sector down . and to deliver . delivery be base on the investment I have reflect on throughout my speech . I look forward to hear lot of sensible speech throughout the debate . rise — I call the SNP spokesman . I have ample cause to reflect as I listen to the Minister ' s speech , replete with positivity as it be , that there be probably not all that many electric vehicle on the market that could not have be charge up to about 80 % in the time the Minister be on her foot . I wonder whether she be look to give her name to a standard unit of measurement that we might adopt for such an infusion of charge into a vehicle . the debate be of course about an industrial strategy , or the lack thereof . while I be prepare for the debate , I have the opportunity to stumble over a few of the various iteration of industrial strategy we have have under conservative government past and present . we have one call " Industrial Strategy : build a Britain fit for the future " date from 2017 , which in most respect seem to be a pretty conventional industrial strategy in what it set out to achieve and the sector it seek to develop to do that . that be of course replace by something call " build back Better " under the unlamented premiership of the former Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip , which notably promise an " open and dynamic economy " and " World - class knowledge and research " , all the while the Government seem determined to cut we off from our large competitor and close market . it promise " a stable framework for growth and strong institution " and boast of " low , stable inflation " , which sound somewhat risible after the experience of the past few month . it also promise levelling - up in term of people and place , despite the fact that we have see a significant lack of transparency in the allocation make through that funding stream . I suggest that those allocation will do nothing to recalibrate the grossly disproportionate imbalance of wealth and life opportunity across the nation and region of these island . that take we to the automotive industry . in many way , it be something of a surprise that there still be one . part of the deeply held mythology of the Conservatives in term of the shape of the post - 1979 UK be a tale they like to tell of industrial dysfunction and poor industrial relation . while that certainly take its toll on the automotive industry , I think it be the general lack of care that we have show for manufacturing and the economic vandalism inflict over that period as service be esteem over manufacturing that make the continued existence of our mass automotive sector in the UK a near miracle . that be not just as a result of the general lack of respect for manufacturing ; there be also the general economic policy . since be elect to this place , I have always try to talk more about the future of the North sea oil and gas field than about their past mismanagement . successive Governments , Conservative and Labour , be desperate to get the oil and gas pumping as quickly as they could , to reduce the crippling balance of payment deficit . the result be to push up the value of sterling beyond anything sustainable , which make manufacturing export uncompetitive . together with what we might call the policy of sado - monetarism that be impose with high interest rate , manufacturing be drive down even far and unemployment be allow to spiral later in the decade to above 3 million , leave scar in the form of decade of lose opportunity and diminish life chance . although automotive production rally later in the decade thank to significant overseas investment , in recent year those concern have re - emerge . the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders have report that manufacturing decrease every year from 2016 to 2022 . I hear what the Minister say about the positive trend of the past four month , but there be a long - term trend over the past six year that can not simply be wish away because of the past few week . in that time , a number of UK - base manufacturer have announce UK plant closure or reduction in capacity . green the automotive industry will be a key element in the green transition . personal transportation will be here for good , so it be imperative that we seize fully the industrialising of our green opportunity . we have touch on the importance of gigafactorie . battery be heavy thing by their nature , because of the material that go into their production . there be lot of regulation on their transport , particularly cross - border . they be hazardous to transport over long distance due to their flammability . that mean that there will be a strong incentive to ensure that ev manufacturing be locate relatively close to where battery be manufacture — probably in the same country and region . for all the promise of factory , Britishvolt and the potential of gigafactorie here , the UK be at risk of fall even far behind Europe in battery manufacturing . capacity in continental Europe be expect to reach nearly 450 GWh by 2030 . that be simply dwarf the scale of the ambition , never mind the scale of delivery , that we be likely to see over the next few year . if those battery be make in Europe or Asia , there be a simple decision that vehicle manufacturer can take about where to build the electric vehicle of the future . all that be compound by rule of origin . the new post - Brexit rule that come into effect in January 2024 will place 10 % tariff on export of electric car between the UK and the EU , if at least 45 % of their value do not originate in the UK or the EU . we have hear about Stellantis , the world ' s fourth large car manufacturer , which have warn that the commitment to make electric vehicle in the UK be in serious jeopardy unless the Government can negotiate a deal to maintain exist trade rule until at least 2027 , to give they a chance to adapt . I look at Labour ' s Opposition day motion ; be my hon . friend as surprised as I that it do not mention Brexit anywhere ? I be very surprised about that . it seem to be the elephant in the room , and of this discussion . if my hon . friend be patient , I will come to that towards the end of my speech . not just Stellantis make such warning ; they have be echo by Jaguar Land Rover and Ford , which have say that if the cost of ev manufacturing in the UK become uncompetitive and unsustainable , operation will close . Mike Hawes , the chief executive of the smmt , warn at a summit recently : " we can ' t afford to have a last minute , 31 December agreement , because business need to plan its volume . " Andrew Graves , a car expert at the University of Bath have warn of dire consequence of the industry , note : " you will start to lose the whole of the UK industry , not just Vauxhall and a couple of other manufacturer … it really make no industrial sense to locate in the United Kingdom . " the UK Government ' s lack of action to ensure that the UK have the capacity to build battery necessary for EU production — couple with Brexit , as my hon . friend the Member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North ( Gavin Newlands ) rightly raise — have make it virtually impossible for domestic UK production to help we meet our target on co2 emission . as Mike Hawes say : " we urgently need an industrial strategy that create attractive investment condition and position the UK as one of the good place in the world for advanced automotive manufacturing . " that must be a priority for the UK Government , but I do not see any indication beyond warm word that it be . to quote someone else who might know what they be talk about , Andy Palmer , former chief operating officer at Nissan and chairman of battery start - up InoBat and Ionetic , have warn that " we be run out of time " to get battery manufacturing up and run in the UK , and that the failure to address the issue also cause by Brexit could lead to 800 , 000 job lose in the UK — basically those associate with the car industry . on job loss , Madam Deputy Speaker you will remember as well as I do the impact of the closure of Linwood car plant on the town . many would say that Linwood have still not fully recover from that closure , when thousand of worker be put on the scrapheap . be my hon . friend worry about what will happen to place such as Sunderland and Ellesmere Port if the government do not get a grip ? I share my hon . friend ' s concern . [ interruption . ] there be some sedentary chuntering — if the hon . member for Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) give I a chance to respond to the intervention , I will gladly give way to he if he have a substantive point to make . we can still see the industrial scar of the devastation reap by the sudden closure of the Linwood factory in 1981 . what we do not see quite so readily but be still every bit as debilitate be the impact on family who lose opportunity to participate fully in the economy . there be a very high price associate with get this wrong , which go far beyond simply not see factory on greenfield site . the motion speak about a lack of a meaningful UK industrial strategy , which be a fair accusation . it call for the need to " urgently resolve the rule of origin change " that be loom in 2024 . at this point , I be bind to observe that both Labour and the Conservatives make grandiloquent promise about how each would seek to harness the power of the british state to transform the economy and , with it , the life and opportunity that follow . for the two year in every three over the last century that the Conservatives have have power , or the one year in every three that Labour have have power , neither have do that . I mention the various iteration of conservative industrial strategy ; I have read Labour ' s industrial strategy , which carry the signature and many photograph of the hon . member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) . in many way it be a very fine document , but when it come to the impact of rule of origin , as with much else , a position promise to make Brexit work mean absolutely nothing . I say this as gently as possible : Brexit can never be make to work , either in its current form or in any conceivable variant . as long as make Brexit work be part of the strategy , no matter which party it belong to — labour or the Conservatives — it will be leave with a slow puncture . will the hon . member give way on that point ? I be come to the end of my remark , but I will give way since I mention the hon . member . I understand the strength of feeling on that point and how , when we have this conversation , many will revert to that Brexit argument . however , I ask the hon . gentleman to recognise not the political case but the economic one : we have the low business investment in the G7 under this Conservative Government . we want to provide a stable platform for that investment to increase in gigafactorie , R & D , hydrogen and all the thing we want to see , but reopen that debate — and the independence debate — be not the stable way to realise those opportunity in future . if we spend all our time do that , we will find that other country get to a point that we will never be able to catch up with , because we do not focus on the real opportunity at hand . I thank the hon . gentleman for that intervention , but I could not disagree more . this be not a stable platform . the Conservatives be offer we the stability of decline , and it seem that Labour be embrace that for fear of frighten its former voter in the red wall . it seek to get they back not with honesty , but by tell people what it think they want to hear . it should have the intellectual honesty to recognise that the real debilitate impact on secure future growth opportunity be not from the issue he mention , but from the barrier that have be impose . to hear that Labour intend to far padlock they in place will depress a great many people the length and breadth not just of Scotland but , look at opinion polling , far beyond . I regret to say that although the motion contain many fine word — it be certainly a fine document in many respect from Labour — while it remain saddled to the Brexit the Conservatives have give we , it will not do anything to tackle the fundamental problem it diagnose . I rise to speak in this debate because it be call " support the Automotive Industry " . with the sense of humility that the opposition ask for , I read the motion . it state : " this House recognise that the automotive industry be the jewel in the crown of british manufacturing and believe it can have a bright future create good job for people across the UK " . then it fall apart , because it state that it " regret that after 13 year of conservative neglect the UK risk lose this world - class industry " . I think , gosh , as a matter of humility , have I miss something ? what have the opposition be talk about that I have so obviously miss ? so I think I would do a quick search on Hansard to see when the automotive industry have be talk about . the Leader of the Opposition , the right hon . and learn Member for Holborn and St Pancras ( Keir Starmer ) , have mention it once since 2015 , and that be when he be quote my right hon . friend the Member for Surrey Heath ( Michael Gove ) confirm that the automotive sector be ready for Brexit . the shadow Secretary of State for Transport , the hon . member for Sheffield , Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) , have never utter the word " automotive industry " in Hansard . to be fair , the shadow Secretary of State lead the debate , the hon . member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) , have mention it six time , so once every two year , which be really useful to note . I be sorry , but that be not credible . be the hon . gentleman in the Chamber for the urgent question when Britishvolt , the flagship automotive battery policy , fall apart ? be he there when Stellantis give evidence to the Select Committee or when we ask two urgent question ? on both occasion , the Government object to we use Parliament to raise those important issue , so I be afraid I do not find his position credible . that will lead I on to what I want to talk about , which be the positive side of this . Britishvolt want to have its headquarters in my constituency , and I meet it to see what would happen . the Government protect £ 100 million of british taxpayer ' money . if that have go to the wrong place , the shadow Secretary of State would have be at the Dispatch Box lambaste the Government for fritter away taxpayer ' money , so I will take no lecture on that point . I be here to talk about the positive side of the automotive industry . in the east midland , we be very proud of what we have to offer in the manufacturing industry . it have be through a tough time for the past 50 or 60 year , but we be make real progress . only recently , Bosworth be note as a net zero hotspot and describe as " connected area with concentrated net zero activity , where business create job and add to the local hotspot ' s economy " . that mean well pay job , well opportunity locally , well local business and , nationally , 840 , 000 job . within that context , the average wage for someone in the industry be £ 42 , 600 , compare with the national average of £ 33 , 000 . what do that look like in reality on the ground ? that be what I want to spend a few minute talk about . on Monday , I be at a place call Horiba MIRA . for those who do not know it , imagine the silicon valley of the automotive industry . imagine the Google complex of anything to do with the car industry . from design to manufacturing to testing , it all happen in this one space . it be unique in the world in what it can do . it be support by Government from 2010 all the way through , with investment to grow as an enterprise zone , and be then allow to flourish and attract international investment from the like of ree , an israeli company , bring hundred of million of pound in and bring 300 job with it . that be just a start in describe what be go in the automotive industry . I agree with those on both side of the House who have say that this really be a revolutionary opportunity . everyone in the world be try to work out the good way to take it , and the good way be to support our research go on right here , include in happen in my constituency . MIRA Technology Park have over 600 high - value job , with specialism in anything from autonomous car drive to battery technology , road safety and defence . those technology be all be test right here in the UK . in November 2022 , Horiba MIRA ' s assure connected autonomous vehicle testing win the test facility of the year prize at the Vehicle Dynamics International award , base on innovation in product , team and technology . in June 2023 , MIRA win an award from Jaguar Land Rover at its seventh annual global supplier excellence award , demonstrate outstanding achievement in JLR ' s global supply base on " customer love unity , integrity , growth , impact . " that all sound very good , but when I ask my constituent whether they be aware of what be go on in our constituency , they do not really know what mira be . that be part of why I be so pleased to speak in this debate , because actually the UK be fantastically good in this space . it be not just about create job — at MIRA , someone can go from be an apprentice all the way through to a phd level qualification on cyber - security in car . it be also innovate for the future to get to net zero and create energy security . it have be partner by local enterprise partnership , investment zone and the Midlands Engine to help drive investment , change policy and bring inward investment from the international community . on Monday , I be very proud to welcome the president of Horiba , Mr Horiba . we see two thing : the research it be do with Ceres on hydrogen battery technology to allow we to have battery technology in house and vehicle ; and drive simulator . if someone want to break into the industry and be design a car , they can now use a simulator to test how it will handle , what it will look like , and how it will feel in term of comfort and safety . all that can be do simply in a computer - generate room , which take out the need to make 50 to 100 prototype and collapse it down to about one or two . but Horiba do not just have dark room with tv screen — there be an entire race track to test every single condition one can think of that a car might need to go through . that be right here in our country , lead the world on the international stage on how to bring in investment . I be really pleased that we can talk about that . there be more in my constituency . we have Triumph Motorcycles . for those who do not know , Steve McQueen leapt away on a Triumph motorcycle . James Bond be see go over the rooftop on a Triumph motorcycle . I be very proud to have Triumph Motorcycles ' headquarters in my patch , create over 1 , 000 job . in the last three year , it have break record for the number of bike it have sell , which have go up by 30 % across the world . all across America and into Latin America , it be break into the industry and the market . that mean high - end innovative job design and manufacture right here in my constituency . this be the kind of thing that member on both side of the House be not good enough at talk up and talk about . that level of innovation and finishing make a huge difference to my local community . I want to mention two other business . fly Spares , base in Market Bosworth , be a second - hand remodelling firm for car such as Rolls - Royces . if someone need a part , it will ship it anywhere across the world . that be an innovative way of create longevity and help achieve net zero by recycle our high - end product . JJ Churchills be a fantastic advanced manufacturing aeronautical and defence agency , which employ 110 people , with high - end apprenticeship , in the middle of the countryside . this be happen right in my constituency — it be 85 % rural , yet I have business like that . the final jewel in the crown be Caterpillar , which last year make £ 59 billion worth of sale worldwide . the company , which have 1 , 000 people work in Desford in my constituency , be look at make green hydrogen - fuel electric tractor , forklift truck , dumper truck — you name it . I have have the pleasure of sit there and drive Caterpillar vehicle in Arizona remotely . that be the sort of innovation that we can do . Caterpillar be source its manufacturing right here in Desford , and have be for 70 year . I mention all this to highlight some of what be go on in my small area of Leicestershire . People choose the UK because of the skillset we have , the tech environment we create , the regulation we have in place and our stability in the global market . that be why they come here . do that mean we should shut up shop , because we have do enough ? no , of course not . it be important to make sure that there be signpost and avenue so that people know where to invest . when I speak to the like of the Midlands Engine , which be look for way to drive investment in the 11 million people in its area , among the question that come up be : where should business go , and how do they connect with Government ? the hon . Member be try manfully to paint an extraordinarily positive picture of the industry , but do he not think that the rule of origin and Brexit will have a negative impact on the automotive sector ? yes or no ? if that be the case , Triumph would have struggle , but it have not . a fundamental point have not be concentrate on enough . I be danger of stray into the territory of my Department , the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero , but the hon . member for Worsley and Eccles South ( Barbara Keeley ) , who be no long in her place , raise the subject of infrastructure . it do not matter what we be discuss , be it wind , EVs , power generation or gigafactorie ; unless we sort the grid out there will be a fundamental difficulty . I believe that , broadly speak , the UK be five year ahead in deliver on net zero . the problem be that so many company be come forward that they simply can not be connect . I ask the Minister to speak to his colleague in the Government to make sure that we deal with infrastructure . I know a report be come out this month on the grid and how we can take it forward . my final plea go to member in all part of the House of Commons . please come to my constituency of Bosworth and see just how marvellous our automotive industry be . from design to manufacturing to testing at the high world standard , we have it all right here in Bosworth . you be more than welcome to join I . it be a privilege to speak in this debate as one of the very few fully apprentice train engineer in this House . Birmingham and the west midland have be the beat heart of manufacturing for the whole country and we want that to continue . Jaguar Land Rover be a huge company in a constituency neighbour my own . in my constituency , I have Bracebridge Engineering Ltd , specialist in metal fabrication and sheet metal work ; p & B Metal Components , which supply the automotive and aerial industry ; Coker Engineering , which offer CNC turn , mill and grind and assembly ; Dana UK Axles , supplier of car part to JLR ; and many other manufacturer . I be particularly proud to have IMI Truflo Marine , the most revered expert and the good manufacturer of valve for submarine — the only one in the world — do fantastic work in my constituency . we also have Fracino , whose coffee machine be well than most italian - make one and be supply to most of the coffee house in this country . the company be set up by an italian family base in my constituency and do fantastic work . the issue I really want to talk about today be training and apprenticeship , because I also have in my constituency the Engineering Employers ' Federation training school . I open the centre 10 year ago , since when it have grow fourfold . the Leader of the Opposition , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Holborn and St Pancras ( Keir Starmer ) , have visit twice to see the great work be do there . his predecessor , the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) , also visit . if the Minister wish to come , I will be happy to guide she around . the EEF training centre be a serious organisation that work very hard to produce apprenticeship . EEF member in Birmingham pay for their apprentice to go there , where they be teach to level 3 and to graduate level , too . I ask the Government to look at how to provide capital support to the EEF training school and college across Birmingham and the west midland , and across the country , so that they can buy the sort of equipment they need — CNC machine , sheet metal equipment and so on — to train people properly . I have too many college unable to provide such training because they do not have the capital they need for equipment . to support the industry we have and to get the industry we want , we need to support apprenticeship , whether people train at EEF or other college in my constituency and elsewhere . my hon . friend the Member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) and other have rightly raise the issue of charge point , as well as our lack of battery manufacturing capacity . I think we should also be look at our capacity to enable connection to the grid . at the moment , those who want to supply energy — solar , wind or any other sort — to the grid face a 10 - year waiting list . I know that you be shocked to hear that , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I be sure that other be too . to reach the level of charge point and battery manufacture the UK need to support a huge increase in ev manufacturing , we have to resolve that . all of we want well - engineer vehicle to save future generation from poisonous gas emission . to do that , people need to be able to connect to the grid to power those charging point , but they can not do so now and will not be able to in the foreseeable future , not for 10 year . I ask the Minister to speak to whoever be in charge of that , to make the case , because this be a huge need for the whole industry . the hon . member be absolutely right . as a parliamentary private Secretary at the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero , I be acutely aware of those issue . I know that the Government put in place a Minister for the grid to look at that side of thing . I believe that very soon a report will come out , which I be hopeful will answer the UK ' s question about connect to the grid . I thank the hon . member for make that point . I would like to discuss with he the new industry that want to come in and do that , but rather than a report , I want to see some action and delivery . the country can not wait another 10 year . Triumph use to manufacture at a factory in Small Heath in Birmingham , where my father use to work . he be a setter - operator on a lathe that produce Triumphs in my constituency . the british industry be then take over by lot of import from Japan — we be not able to compete — but I be glad that british industry be now able to compete . that be what I want for the future of the british engineering and manufacturing industry : for we to be able to compete in those area so that we can show the world that we be the world leader . Dana in my constituency be very competitive in the motor vehicle industry . it supply axle and other engineering component to the car industry . I want continue support for Dana and for it to have more apprentice and to be able to move forward . the key issue be skill , skill and more skill . unless we get those skill , we will not be able to do what we want . about six or seven year ago , Truflo do not have the capacity . it keep on member of staff until they be 70 , rather than they retire . Truflo then work with the University of Birmingham to get apprentice on board to close the gap and get engineer to work for the company . it be the only valve company that work to the quality require to work in submarine — once a submarine be underwater , if it do not have the good equipment , it become very serious . we have a great industry in the west midland and we have great people do great work . all I want be to ensure that in this debate we discuss the issue of engineering and manufacturing , so that we can move forward and see how we can deliver . I would like the Minister to follow through on that , and perhaps we can discuss some of the issue afterwards . the real issue be , as my hon . friend the Member for Stalybridge and Hyde say , that we need to get british industry work , and we need to work together to move forward . that can be do by the engineering and manufacturing sector . green energy rely on the engineering and manufacturing sector . we do not want to have to import wind turbine ; we can make they in the UK . we can make solar energy and hydrogen energy in the UK , and so we should . let we enable the people in our industry to move forward on these issue . let we support our industry and move forward . thank you for allow I to speak , Madam Deputy Speaker . you know that I have another appointment very soon , so I will terminate my speech at this point . my hon . friend the Member for Stalybridge and Hyde have introduce a fantastic and much - need debate so that we can discuss this important issue . my constituency of Llanelli have make a huge contribution to the automotive industry over many year . industry grow up there from the very early day of smelt iron ore with local coal , to smelt copper ore import through the town ' s dock , and on to the world - famous tinplate industry , which live on in the Tata work , which be often refer to as steelwork but which be refer to locally as the tinplate work . give its metal tradition , it be no wonder that motor manufacturing and engineering flourish in Llanelli and have be and continue to be very important source of employment . as well as the large firm , such as Marelli and Gestamp , there be myriad small firm , such as Excel Precision Engineering . they all produce a range of component that be part of the immensely complex supply chain that supply the many iconic name in the UK motor industry . so many job in Llanelli depend on motor manufacturing and , indeed , across Wales there be some 9 , 000 job in the industry . the complex supply chain make it vital that the Government have a clear industrial strategy and trade policy , to give the industry the long - term certainty that it need to invest . we be already see the effect of the Government ' s dilly - dallying , with production down nearly 10 % in 2022 and export down 14 % , which equate to a significant amount when eight out of 10 vehicle be export . this mean empty order book in the supply chain , which be very worrying for worker . this be about not just the need to produce huge volume of car battery but adapt the design of many of the component part of vehicle , with investment to gear up production line to produce they . furthermore , as petrol and diesel car be phase out , some component will no long be need . to survive , the factory that make they will need to transition to manufacture relevant component for the future , which be a future of electric vehicle . just in case the Government still have not hear the message come loud and clear from the industry for month and month , the challenge be : high energy price ; rule of origin ; the need for a long - term industrial strategy and certainty about the future ; support for research and development ; and the enormous challenge pose by the way other country incentivise the industry to site new factory and new production line in their country . let we look at some of the ask . first , I implore the government , instead of press ahead with the imposition of 10 % tariff from January 2024 , to work together with the EU to postpone the escalation of the rule of origin requirement until 2027 . we also need the Government to support research and development and the bringing of innovation to the market . for example , my constituent have a company that have develop the mean to make an ev car battery 15 % more efficient . that could make a huge improvement by get more mile out of a vehicle per charge or facilitate less weighty battery . that be the sort of enterprise that we need to support . India be an associate member of the Horizon programme , yet staff in our university still do not know whether their project will be able to go ahead . they do not know whether we will continue to be part of the Horizon programme . the Government need to clarify that as soon as possible , so that we do not lose excellent researcher who will go elsewhere if they can not further their research here in the UK . manufacturer have point out time and again that the UK have much high energy price than our competitor country . this affect not only energy - intensive industry but all manufacturing . the solution be clear , and Labour have plan to implement it . we on the Labour Benches recognise the real urgency of the need to invest significantly in renewable energy . that be precisely what we would prioritise so that we could slash bill for industry and household while create job — as well as , of course , tackle climate change and ensure our energy security so that we be never again hold to ransom by a foreign despot increase gas price . instead , we have see the Conservative Government ban the expansion of wind energy in England and take a half - hearted approach to lift the ban , stall on solar and , quite frankly , desperately underperform on the roll - out of renewable energy over the past few year . we then come to the huge amount of investment that be need now to transform production from petrol and diesel vehicle to electric vehicle . the US Inflation Reduction Act be a massive game changer . the EU have respond by develop its own incentive , but we have still not have a coherent response from this Government . time be run out , because company be make decision now , and once they ramp up the production of electric vehicle elsewhere , we will see worker in factory here leave with nothing but finish off the remain order on exist line , with no future . if , once those decision be make , company do invest elsewhere , there will be no bring they back : once they have go , they have go , add to the loss of 37 % of UK motor manufacturing job that this Conservative Government have preside over . that be a full third of the industry lose since 2010 . although I welcome any new investment , it really do need to be put into the context of what this Government have allow we to lose . we be all aware of the urgent need to establish battery factory here in the UK . Germany have clock up 10 factory , while we be struggle on one . what be the Government go to do to ensure that we get the battery factory we need , and in a timely fashion ? it be no good be too late when all the industry have go elsewhere . in addition , we need adaptation and transformation right across the industry . that be why we in the Labour party have set out our plan to implement a proper industrial strategy and establish an industrial council to provide long - term stability of policy . we have also set out our UK version of the US Inflation Reduction Act : our green prosperity plan . our national wealth fund will , when need , provide the finance to invest in the transformation of our automotive industry to produce EVs , which be an important part of our plan to get to net zero . we will boost UK battery capacity with the part - financing of eight additional gigafactorie and accelerate the roll - out of charge point to give provider confidence to charge their ev . to reiterate , it be not simply the Labour party but the whole industry that be very concerned that we be not see a clear industrial strategy or the necessary move to build battery factory by incentivise firm to continue put their production here , by bring down energy price and by ensure that we have a thrive motor manufacturing industry for the future . it be a privilege to follow my hon . friend the Member for Llanelli ( Dame Nia Griffith ) , who be right to talk about the importance of innovation and enterprise in this sector . this be an important debate , which be why it be disappointing that there be now more Government parliamentary private Secretaries in the Chamber than there have be conservative speaker in this debate . the public and worker will question why the Tories think so little of the automotive sector and will draw their own conclusion . I be pleased that parliamentary time have be give today to focus on the automotive industry , which have a long and proud history in the UK . as we have already hear , from Sunderland to Coventry , Ellesmere Port and Luton , industrial city and town across the country have be hallmark of manufacturing and quality production in our automotive sector for decade . my constituent in Luton North have a particular interest in this debate . in a moment I will address the recent event at the SKF plant at Sundon Park in my constituency , but first I would like to discuss another automotive crisis face the Luton community . Luton ' s Vauxhall plant be base in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Luton South ( Rachel Hopkins ) . she be a champion for the automotive sector , and I wish the hon . member for Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) have look up how many time she have mention the automotive sector and industry , as he would have reach double digit for sure . Vauxhall have be a proud industrial landmark of our town since 1905 . the plant play a major part in the war effort during the 1940 , produce the Churchill tank and become a centre for repair battle - damage tank . thousand of Bedford lorry be turn out at Kimpton Road , include the QL , which be the company ' s first four - wheel drive vehicle and a key feature of our country ' s military fleet . if we fast forward to the present day , we see that the Luton Vauxhall plant employ around 1 , 500 people from across our town and have be essential to create skilled , unionised local job , run apprenticeship scheme for young people and foster local talent , include across supply chain and other local business . the plant now specialise in produce van , around 70 % of which be export to mainland Europe . I be so pleased to have have the pleasure of visit the plant with my hon . friend the Member for Luton South to meet the worker , and we see how proud they be of what they turn out . long may it continue , in the face of the challenge from this Tory Government . business such as Vauxhall not only provide job to people in Luton North , they be also intrinsic to our identity as a town . generation have work there , know each other and grow together . automation change the face and size of Britain ' s automotive sector but , as quickly as we see it rise , we be now sadly see it decline . thirteen year of Tory chaos have turbo - charge the closure of factory and the destruction of worker ’ livelihood . the Conservatives ' disastrous handling of Brexit negotiation , the explosion of the economy by the previous conservative Prime Minister and the long abandonment of any semblance of an industrial strategy be just a few of many contribute factor . locally , even in the face of the Government ' s evolve mess , we have see a committed , quality automotive sector and supply chain in Luton , but it be now hang by a thread . the Minister talk about optimism , but this be the reality face thousand of worker across the country . other job link to manufacturing , the automotive industry and the supply chain be similarly under threat . SKF be a major employer in my constituency . SKF be a ball bear manufacturing plant , formerly closely tie to Volvo . SKF , like Vauxhall , have be a proud feature of Luton for more than 100 year , and it be another prime example of how this government be sit on their hand while they oversee the slow , manage decline of manufacturing in this country . last month , SKF announce its plan to close the Luton plant and move production to Poznan in Poland by the end of 2024 . this be a devastating blow to our town and our local economy , and it could see the loss of up to 300 job . I go to meet worker and Unite union rep at SKF , and they be all deeply concerned about the sudden closure . they tell I that , throughout covid , they be consider key worker . they operate and work throughout , put their safety behind production , for the good of the company and for the good of the economy . generation have work at SKF in Sundon Park , and thousand have give their good working day to that business , only for SKF ' s board member to turn their back on they and for this government to turn their back on manufacture worker again . seriously , what do the Government want ? a land of Amazons ? a blanket of windowless storage warehouse , where people compete and break themselves to meet unrealistic and ever - increase pick rate ? that be what they be turn our country into . I be pleased the Minister be keen to take up invite to visit member ' constituency , so will she please commit to meet I and worker at SKF who face lose their job to see how we can save SKF ' s future in Luton ? I recently have a meeting with the hon . member for Luton South ( Rachel Hopkins ) and Stellantis , and I be always open to meet colleague on both side of the Chamber . of course I will meet the hon . member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) , those employee and unite the union . I thank the Minister for give that commitment . it will mean a lot to the worker of SKF and to the constituency and the wide economy . long - stand business with tie to our constituency and our constituent be be force to shut up shop and relocate elsewhere because the lack of Government support have leave they with little choice . the lack of an industrial strategy have be a major factor in the lack of certainty over not just the last few year but , sadly , over the last 13 year . there be positive example of company in the industry refuse to give up their UK - base factory and the worker who work in they . next door to SKF in my constituency sit Comline , an auto part business . when I visit Comline in Sundon Park , I be impress by its innovation in deal with the challenge throw at it from all angle . it have a flourish business that value its staff , and it have establish strong trade link with office abroad , which have perhaps guarantee its continued success . although I be glad that that have give the company security , it be deplorable that the Government have make international trade so complex that Comline have find it easy to trade with country thousand of mile away than to trade with its office in Northern Ireland . despite our proud history , I remain deeply concerned that our automotive industry have be consistently let down , with the industry ' s concern ignore by this Government . the Government have be warn by representative body and business for month , even year , of the cliff edge face the UK automotive industry due to the combination of change to the rule of origin and a lack of battery - make capacity in the UK . the collapse of Britishvolt in January 2023 , have plan to build a £ 3 . 8 billion gigafactory in Blyth , Northumberland , be a stark reminder of these failure and be undoubtedly a disaster for the UK car industry . even more worrying be the wide picture . even if Britishvolt be go ahead , we would be far short of where we need to be to continue make car in this country . the Faraday Institution say we need 10 gigafactorie by 2040 to sustain our automotive sector . without domestic battery , we will have no domestic automotive industry at all . while this Government dither on their investment strategy , a Labour Government would commit to rapidly scale up UK battery - make capacity by part - finance eight additional gigafactorie to create 80 , 000 job and power 2 million electric vehicle . new gigafactorie will also allow the UK ' s automotive sector to source component locally and avoid tariff from rule of origin agreement . the Stellantis three — my hon . friend the Members for Luton South and for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) and I — be sit together , in May 2023 , the car maker Stellantis , which own Vauxhall , Peugeot , Citro ë n and Fiat , issue warning that it may have to close UK factory if the Government do not renegotiate their Brexit deal . under the current deal , UK car maker could face 10 % tariff on export to the EU from next year due to rule of origin on where part be source . unfortunately , it be not we but business — company such as Stellantis — that must be convince that the Government will sort this out . other car manufacturing giant and competitor , include Ford and Jaguar Land Rover , have join Stellantis to warn that the transition to electric vehicle will be affect unless the UK and the EU delay the strict rule of origin that be due to start next year and could add tariff on car export . this be not a new argument that I have have . before enter this House in 2019 , I be a trade union officer with GMB . I declare now that I be also a proud member of it , which will not surprise anybody . alongside the late Jack Dromey , who be a champion for the automotive industry — I hope everybody from across the House could agree on that — we take worker from Toyota , AstraZeneca , the whisky - make industry in Scotland and the Stoke pottery to meet the then Cabinet Secretary , now the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities . I can see you look at I , Madam Deputy Speaker , so let I say that I have inform he that I be go to mention he in the Chamber . when we go to speak to he with this delegation of manufacture worker , every single one of we question what be go to happen when the rule of origin change kick in . he shrug his shoulder , arrogantly say , " this be go to be work out . " yet here we be , in 2023 , many year later , and all those industry and worker be still leave without a proper answer . while the EU be pump billion into manufacturing as part of its green industrial revolution plan , and the US be invest with the Inflation Reduction Act , our automotive industry be still be leave behind . the UK lag behind the rest of the world in term of global automotive manufacturing relative to GDP , rank sixth in Europe and 17th in the world last year . the Minister talk about optimism , which be of course welcome , but that be the reality face worker and the sector . I ask the Government to get real on this , because blind optimism do not pay the bill . it do not create certainty for an industry and it certainly do not make car manufacturer such as Stellantis think that this Government be serious about the automotive sector . that mean my constituency be miss out on potential business start and grow in Luton North , and local people who be keen to work in those industry be be fail . this Government be not only prevent new british job from materialising , but diminish exist job before our eye . as I say , we be face a possible 270 - plus job loss at the SKF factory . that be come at the same time as there be threat to close ticket office , include at Leagrave station . we can not take more job loss in Luton North . my constituent be have the job they have do diligently for generation strip from they , in the automotive sector , in rail and in all manner of business breakdown . it be clear that this Government ' s stick - plaster approach can not continue . Labour have state time and again that secure an agreement with the European Union to make Brexit work for the automotive industry be critical to ensure its survival . the knock - on effect of the Government ' s approach be be feel across the manufacturing industry more widely . staggering energy cost , a lack of an industrial strategy and investment , and a more competitive european market mean that manufacture across our country could soon cease to exist in its entirety . clearly , our automotive industry need a government that will fight to support it to be competitive in the global market . labour will deliver a modern industrial strategy to bring investment and job to industrial heartland . that will create an employment revival where there have be year of conservative depression , because on these Benches we be about create strong job with a secure future , not strip they away . under Labour leadership , battery - make capacity in the UK would boom . we would support the creation of eight new gigafactorie , with this all lay out and cost in our green prosperity plan . the new factory would allow for our home - grow automotive business to source their auto part within the UK . that would be huge for business such as Comline in Sundon Park . crucially , with these new gigafactorie , we would introduce about 80 , 000 new british job . I know how much that would mean to my constituent , from youngster get apprenticeship to old people know they do not need to worry about redundancy before retirement . with eight new gigafactorie , we would also power 2 million electric vehicle , which be so crucial for work towards our commitment to net zero . all of that would bring in an additional £ 30 billion to our economy . it sound like a good deal to I . we be commit to build strong economic foundation that business need to succeed , include through reform to the apprenticeship levy and business rate to give firm flexibility where they need it , and make the UK a clean energy superpower by 2030 with net zero carbon electricity , lower electricity cost for the car industry . that be the leadership and the strategy that the automotive industry have be cry out for , and that be what a Labour Government would provide . it be an absolute pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) , a good friend who speak so passionately about the length of time Luton have be associate with Vauxhall Motors — I appreciate the Minister nod at that . as we have hear , the automotive industry be critical to the UK ' s economy ; it be a jewel in the crown of british manufacturing . I agree with the comment make by our Front Benchers about the importance of maintain a good manufacturing sector in our country and the associate good , skilled job . in Luton , we be proud of our automotive heritage . for once , let I carry on a football analogy by say that we be also proud of our premier league football team . generation of family have work at the Vauxhall plant , make many well - know family car and , more recently , medium - sized van , base on the Vauxhall Vivaro . I have see the heritage display in all sort of way . when I visit Someries Junior School recently , it have the full history of Vauxhall set out in a montage , where the car have be draw on and the history from 1905 be talk about . similarly , when I have be out talk to the people of Mid Bedfordshire , I knock on the door of someone who work at Vauxhall and be the daughter of one of the Unite representative . I be pleased to meet the Minister recently to talk about the importance of the automotive sector to Luton and the need for a long - term strategy to safeguard the industry and good job in our town . have join this place in 2019 , I first raise the issue of the need for a strategy specifically to support the automotive industry some three year ago , in July 2020 . the Minister have see I raise many an automotive issue . if the hon . member for Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) be here , I could assure he of how many time I have raise the issue of semiconductor , electric vehicle battery , gigafactorie , the supply chain , rule of origin and charge infrastructure . there be a genuine interest here about the importance of all of it to our economy . I be hesitant to interrupt , because I know of my hon . friend ' s expertise in this area . however , may I ask she : be the Government give enough help for the future of our industry ? many believe that hydrogen power be come fast , and that its impact might be similar to what the invention of the railway mean for the canal . be the Government give enough hope and resource to the industry to look forward to hydrogen power as well as battery power ? I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . obviously , the Opposition be host this debate to get support for the automotive sector , and his question about whether the Government be give sufficient support to hydrogen be perhaps one for they . I want to make sure that I have my point on the record about the future of electric vehicle at the Vauxhall plant . three year on , I be still call for that long - term plan from the Government . despite the Minister recite many a meeting , visit and champion of X , Y and Z , where be the plan that we can all look up to and see how it be go to support our sector ? we have see this Conservative Government preside over a 37 % fall in british motor manufacturing since they come into office in 2010 . indeed , eight out of 10 car produce in the UK be export , yet export of car manufacture in the UK fall by 14 % in 2022 . government inaction , which we be debate today , threaten the future of the automotive industry and of Vauxhall in Luton , particularly the future of its electric vehicle . the UK be heavily reliant on battery technology from Asia . while the UK currently fall under the threshold of rule of origin quota , the ratchet up from the beginning of next year pose a risk to the UK automotive industry . as we have hear , Stellantis , the owner of Vauxhall , tell the Business and Trade Committee inquiry into the supply of battery for ev manufacturing in the UK : " there will not be sufficient battery production supply in the UK or in Europe by 2025 and 2030 " to meet the rule of origin requirement . rather than work with the EU to suspend a ratchet up in rule of origin requirement until 2027 , I be concerned that we will see too little , too late from the Government , and the Conservatives will oversee the imposition of 10 % tariff from 1 January next year . just for nuance , those tariff be 10 % to 22 % for electric van , which particularly impact the Vauxhall plant in Luton South . overall , these tariff would hinder the UK ' s struggle automotive sector , pass on yet more cost to british people , already struggle with a cost of living crisis make in Downing Street , and would make the green transition unnecessarily unaffordable for million across the country . until we have sufficient domestic battery production , our industry will be at a major competitive disadvantage , in particular against asian import , specifically from South Korea , Japan and China . the reality be that if the cost of ev manufacturing in the UK become uncompetitive and unsustainable , the future of domestic operation will be at risk . decision will be make by producer to move production elsewhere , if there be no confidence in the UK Government ' s desire to facilitate a sustainable automotive and electric vehicle market , a point well make by my hon . friend the Member for Llanelli ( Dame Nia Griffith ) , particularly as british business be also face the high energy cost in Europe . it be also important that the Government recognise the innovation and technological advancement pose by the wide industry . since join the all - party motor group , I have learn a lot about how motorsport in the UK — the good in the world , with the great engineering and tech team — influence the ordinary automotive sector . for many year , we have see a cycle where cutting - edge motorsport develop innovative automotive solution and efficiency that the automotive sector later adopt for the wide market . we have hear about step be take on sustainable fuel , but much more have be link to the huge stride in technology relate to software . it be right to remember how the motorsport industry pivot brilliantly during the pandemic to support the ventilator challenge . I raise this because if the Government sit back and allow the demise of our automotive industry , we will risk lose the world - class engineer , tech expert and motorsport company , as they will look elsewhere for an environment that be more conducive to the sport . that would be detrimental , not only to the entertainment side of motorsport , but as a significant contributor to our economy and society . as we have hear , Labour have an excellent plan to turbocharge electric vehicle manufacturing . in government , we will prioritise an agreement with the European Union to ensure that manufacturer have time to prepare to meet rule of origin requirement . we be committed to rapidly scale up UK battery making capacity , by part - finance eight additional gigafactorie , create 80 , 000 job , power 2 million electric vehicle and add £ 30 billion to the UK economy . labour will accelerate the roll - out of charge point and give confidence to motorist to make the switch , with bind target for electric vehicle charger . our plan include measure to make the UK a clean energy superpower by 2030 , with net zero carbon electricity , lower electricity cost for the UK car industry . I look forward to support labour ' s business team to make this a reality , so that the young people in Luton South see a positive future ahead of they , with good , skilled job for the long term . it should come as no surprise to anyone that since the Conservative Government take power in 2010 , the country ' s automotive industry have be fail by a lack of investment or any long - term strategy . since 2010 , as set out by other speaker in the debate , we have experience a 37 % decline in british motor manufacturing . that be not insignificant and it be set to continue . I be lucky enough to be a member of the Business and Trade Committee . a couple of month ago , I ask expert , on a panel discuss the UK ' s industrial strategy , how the UK be place to take advantage of the electric car industry , and about the level of investment on offer to support company settle in the UK and create job here , compare with those in the US and across Europe . put simply , their response be startling but it be absolutely correct . the response from each industry expert be that right now there be no comparison between what be on offer with the Inflation Reduction Act in the US and what be on offer in Europe . that be unfortunate , but that be the reality of where we be at this moment in time . look at the statistic regard this extremely important debate , the Conservatives have preside over a 37 % decline in british motor manufacturing since 2010 . there be 780 , 000 people employ across the UK automotive sector , with 182 , 000 of those directly employ in manufacturing . annual UK car production fall by 9 . 8 % in 2022 , from 859 , 000 unit to 775 , 014 unit . the UK lag behind the rest of the world in term of global automotive manufacturing relative to GDP , rank sixth in Europe and 17th in the world in 2022 . eight in every 10 car produce in the UK be export , yet export of car manufacture in the UK fall by 14 % in 2022 . the EU be by far the large export market for UK - produce vehicle — 57 . 6 % of vehicle produce in the UK be export to the EU . it be now three year since a gigafactory in my constituency of Wansbeck be propose , and we have be hope for the development of Britishvolt at Cambois . in the run - up to Christmas , at a time when people be wonder if they be go to get additional sock , Old Spice , Blue Stratos or new boxer short , I get a great surprise , finally . in December 2020 , I get a call from a businessman who inform I that he be to develop a big company call Britishvolt , only two mile from where I live . it be as if all my christmas have come at once : 8 , 000 much - need job in an area like wansbeck and like south - east Northumberland , cover different skill . they be secure , unionised job that be set out in the telephone conversation I have in December 2020 , just prior to Christmas . we be go to get a big gigafactory . it be herald at the time by Ministers as a perfect example of level up . it be herald by the then Prime Minister as a project that would boost the production of electric vehicle in the UK , while level up opportunity and bring thousand of highly skilled job to community in our industrial heartland . however , Ministers be not so keen to be attach to it when Britishvolt go into liquidation after fail to get the fund that it need to continue . that include the money that the disgrace former Prime Minister tell I from that Dispatch Box be " in the post " . I ask he at pmq when BritishVolt would be receive the £ 100 million from the automotive transformation fund . he rise , clench his fist anxiously , and say that the cheque be in the post . I support the CWU and I support the strike at the Royal Mail , but I be afraid that that cheque never arrive . I do not blame the strike for that , although other may wish to do so . that money never ever arrive for Britishvolt . I listen to a Member early who say that , have that money be pay to a community such as mine , it would have be fritter away . let I tell Members : people in my community deserve as much investment in job than anywhere else in this country — whether it be a constituency lead by the Conservatives or by the Labour party . my constituency deserve to be care for the same as anybody else . if £ 100 million be be invest in one constituency , it be see as fantastic ; it should not be see as be fritter away in a constituency such as mine . it be an insult to everyone in the south - east of Northumberland , and obviously to my patch . the current situation , as the Minister know , be that the Britishvolt project be buy by an australian company , Recharge Industries , and it have give we a glimmer of hope . I ask the Minister a few week ago in Question Time whether we could meet up to discuss what support the Government could give to Recharge Industries . she agree to meet , but we have not yet have the opportunity to do so , so I gently nudge she and say that I would welcome that discussion , because we need that gigafactory . every industry expert say that we have the good site in Europe for a gigafactory . the only way that it will happen be if we get the support that we need from the Government . so far , it do not look as if that will happen . as I have say before , it would create 8 , 000 job : 6 , 000 job in the supply chain and 2 , 000 at the factory . I thank my hon . friend for give way and ask he to excuse I for have to leave the Chamber temporarily . the point he be make be important . I be in his area early this year and see for myself the new National Grid facility . with its interconnector and the 3 % of UK electricity potential come ashore from Norway , it be , I agree , the perfect site for a gigafactory — alongside Coventry , of course . I will not get into the football analogy that have be draw on today . I be pleased that my hon . friend have visit my constituency and see for himself the potential that Energy Central have in Northumberland . whether it be the two interconnector or the Catapult facility in Blyth for renewable energy , we have a lot go on in the Blyth estuary region and , of course , in Wansbeck . we need to give people some hope . we need to give my constituent the same sort of hope that everybody else be get . I have sit patiently listen to member who have lot of job in their constituency . they be very happy with those job and the fact that thing could not be any bright . the hon . member for Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) say , " come and have a look at Bosworth . it be fantastic . " I say to he , " come and have a look at Wansbeck and see how that stand as compare with Bosworth . " I be delighted for the people of Bosworth , but he should be come to my constituency to see the difference . it be just not fair . when it come to the automotive industry , we should be talk about the whole of the UK . the hon . Gentleman speak passionately about the site of the gigafactory . I know it well , because Britishvolt speak to I about the site and what it have to deliver . I be more than happy to support he and his constituent , because this be about what the UK can offer to the rest of the world . the automotive industry here be a leader in do that , so I will champion that , because it happen to be in my constituency . I would love to see it thrive in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency , too , so that we have job and prosperity across the UK . I thank the hon . Gentleman , but he should come and have a look . he can drive his electric vehicle up the road and call in to see the obvious difference between my constituency and his . this be indeed a UK - wide issue in that if one of we succeed in the sector , then we all succeed . however , we be talk about not just the job of the future that need to be create and maintain , but , unfortunately , the job now that need to be save . there be just not the equivalent job for people to go to . be this not a serious problem for the sector ? it be not just about future job , but about save the job now . that be an excellent point . the reality be that we have lose 37 % of production in 13 year . if there be not a halt to that and if there be not the investment that be require to maintain and then increase employment , we will see a total loss of the automotive industry in this country . it be as simple as that . member have mention the different new rule come into place , the state of origin rule and issue such as that . it be get more and more difficult to maintain and increase what we have , on top of a 37 % decline . the reality be that we do not have anything in place to make that transformation from where we be now to where we need to be . we need to have , I think , nine new gigafactorie . we have one . in fact , it be half a gigafactory . that be just not good enough . we keep be tell by the Conservatives that they be on the case , that the development be come , and that they will be develop it — whether it be in Coventry , in the midland or wherever ; hopefully , the next one will be in my constituency — but it be not right to continue say that we be on track . we be not on track . there need to be some investment . we need the ready . we will not get people roll up to different area say that they will build a gigafactory unless they have support from the Government . we should look at the support that other country have give to their business in grant and loan : CATL in Germany receive a loan of € 750 million , 22 . 8 % of the total build cost ; Northvolt in Sweden get € 505 million , 17 . 1 % of the build cost ; GM in North America get $ 2 . 5 billion ; Stellantis $ 1 billion ; Tesla $ 1 . 3 billion ; and Ford $ 884 million . Britishvolt , which have so much promise , be promise £ 100 million , 2 . 3 % of the build cost . that be heavily caveate to the point where the company never have a penny of Government support . we should take a look at the stat . what Labour be suggest would provide a fantastic opportunity . it need to be grasp . region up and down the country will benefit greatly as a result of what have already be describe as turbocharge electric vehicle manufacturing . there could be £ 30 billion - worth of investment in the region . we can not turn that down , but we have to get on with it , which be why I hope that once the election come and we get elect as the next Government this can be introduce without delay . it will make a huge difference to area such as the north - east , which will have 13 , 000 job in vehicle manufacturing . its share of the £ 30 billion in economic benefit from the Labour plan will be £ 2 . 45 billion . area such as the west midland will have 57 , 000 such job , and it will receive £ 10 . 76 billion in its share of the investment . the list go on . the north - west will have 22 , 000 job in vehicle manufacturing and £ 4 . 13 billion - worth of investment . that Labour party turbocharging of electric vehicle be so important and so exciting , but my constituency have be absolutely battered . it have be bruise by the deindustrialisation programme of past conservative government . the lack of an industrial strategy from the Government be still hold my area back significantly . level up mean an active state willing actively to protect and invest in the interest of people in hold - back area such as my constituency of Wansbeck . the area where the site would have be develop lie in Cambois , a coastal area in the parish of East Bedlington . Bedlington and Wansbeck — not in Blyth . Britishvolt be never in Blyth . a number of people have mention that today , and I have already mention it to the Minister a few time . Britishvolt be not in Blyth ; that be a conservative seat next door . Britishvolt be in Wansbeck — my patch . I think that I would make that point once again , because it appear that very few people listen to what have be say . we have a proud history in the industrial revolution . it be a coal area . my patch be coal town . we be build on coal . we be part of the great industrial revolution , not only extract the coal that power it , but be the birthplace of work iron rail in the Bedlington Ironworks , which trigger the railway age . why should that industrial heritage not be continue at the site of what could be the heart of the green industrial revolution — the transport industrial revolution — simply because once again the Government have fail to deliver for the people of Wansbeck and south - east Northumberland ? we need to do a lot well for my constituent . I be grateful for the Speaker ' s agreement , and that of the Whips , to my speaking in today ' s debate . if anybody do not know it yet , Ellesmere Port , which I be proud to represent , be synonymous with Vauxhall Motors . I know that my hon . friend the Members for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) and for Luton South ( Rachel Hopkins ) will say that Luton be equally synonymous . I put on the record my gratitude for their support , and that of their predecessor , when we face similar battle to keep our plant open . we have hear already that we all have to succeed if the UK car industry be to succeed . I will show my solidarity with they to keep this important sector go . they will recognise the pride that we all have in be such a major part of the UK car sector . generation of my constituent , though not as many generation as those of my hon . friend the Members for Luton North and for Luton South , have work in the Vauxhall Motors plant since it first open in around 1960 . when I drive away from my house in my constituency in my Vauxhall Astra , I go past many house that have Vauxhall worker in they , or Vauxhall pensioner , or people who have have family and friend who work at Vauxhall . that be just before I get to the end of my street . it be a long street , but I think that it be symbolic of the fact that every part and corner of my town have a link to the factory . indeed , as the town grow the plant grow , from the 1960 onwards . although it do not employ anything like the 12 , 000 people that it do at its height , it be still a substantial employer in the town . that of course do not take into account the many people employ in the supply chain and associated industry ; neither do it account for the great potential that we have for great number if the new van , which be come soon , prove to be the success that we hope that it will be . the parent company may now be call Stellantis , and my hon . friend the Members for Luton North and for Luton South and I be now " the Stellantis three " , but Vauxhall Motors be the name that give we pride in our community . it be something that we all recognise . the job that Vauxhall Motors , or Stellantis , provide be the sort that I want our future success to be build on : highly skilled , unionised , permanent job , manufacture something that be a matter of national and local pride . when the shadow Secretary of State , my hon . friend the Member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) , speak about his pride in the Nissan plant in Sunderland , those word really resonate with I . those of we who have big local manufacturer take great pride in what they have do for our community , and indeed the wide economy . as you would expect , Madam Deputy Speaker , the plant have regular fight for survival , and I be proud that alongside many other I have play my part to ensure that it be still there , but it do not get any easy . every five year or so , when the next model be discuss , plant across Europe be effectively pit against each other to bid for the next job . the productivity of the local workforce and their co - operation with Unite the union , which for the record I be a proud member of , work extremely well . they show tremendous leadership to work with management . in the past , that have put we in the good possible position to secure future work . the partnership between the trade union and management be a real exemplar of how employee relation can be conduct for the benefit of everyone . the local authority , and indeed central Government , have play their part too , both in recent year and in the previous decade , with initiative such as the car scrappage scheme and the Automotive Council , which help not just Vauxhall Motors but the entire sector more generally . before the new van roll off the production line for the first time , which I hope will be shortly , the challenge to secure the next model have already begin . that challenge have many similarity with the obstacle that the entire sector need to overcome , as we have hear about . I be confident that our worker and management locally will be able to show that they be competitive compare with other plant , but will that be enough if they face a 10 % surcharge on their export product , as it look as if they may be face from next year ? I think that we all know that expect any business to remain competitive if it have an additional 10 % cost add to it be unrealistic . as my hon . friend the Member for Luton South mention , for van the tariff could go up to 22 % . the clear warning sign be there that we need to do something dramatic to avoid that cliff edge . there be six month to go before we get to that point , which show that we be in the danger zone . as have be mention , the Government have year to address this issue . they either need to renegotiate the deal to get rid of the tariff or get enough battery plant on the ground so that tariff do not matter any more . unfortunately , neither of those thing have happen . when the EU be pump billion into manufacturing as part of its green industrial plan , and the US be invest trillion as part of the Inflation Reduction Act , the inaction in the UK become negligence . if we want the UK to be a clean energy superpower by 2030 , and to avoid fall off a cliff edge before then , we need a much more interventionist Government who will help the automotive sector to make this important transition . gigafactorie , charge infrastructure and reshore the supply chain will not happen by magic , especially when the US and EU be actively pursue that for their own industry . look at the evidence give to the Business and Trade Committee about the challenge that we face . these be some of the quote give to the Committee on the matter recently : " at the moment , the UK do not have a strategy . it do not have a runner in this race … Capital be far more incentivise to go to the US . " right now there be no comparison with what be on offer with the Inflation Reduction Act , and what be on offer in Europe . that be unfortunate , but it be the reality of where we be . the problem be that when other nation be put in massive amount , not put in that level of cash make we uncompetitive . it be difficult for shareholder to make a positive decision if we be not put the same amount on the table . that be what the industry have be very clearly tell we . we know , as we have hear already , that we need at least eight or possibly nine gigafactorie to make the UK car industry viable , but , as my hon . friend the Member for Wansbeck ( Ian Lavery ) say , we may have half a gigafactory come on stream , or maybe two at well , if we be lucky . he tell we in some detail about the struggle to get that gigafactory up and run in his constituency , and that should tell we that this need full attention . I know my hon . friend the Member for Birkenhead ( Mick Whitley ) have be actively campaign to get a gigafactory site in his constituency capable of serve not only Vauxhall Motors but probably also JLR and some other factory in the region . I be pleased to say that our request to meet the Minister be grant , just before this debate in fact — what a great coincidence that be — because we think there need to be recognition that there be a lot of chicken and egg in this situation . if we do not have the gigafactorie , we will not have the car plant ; if we do not have the car plant , we will not have the gigafactorie . as my hon . friend the Member for Luton North say , we all have to succeed in this . it can not be just one or two plant . for the future to work in this sector , we all have to succeed . let we get more of these gigafactorie up and run , with spade on the ground in the next 12 month , before we get the point where the sector decide that there just will not be the capacity to move forward with a viable UK car industry . as we know from many other industry , once it be go , it be go . as the Faraday Institution have say , we need a " timely and co - ordinate effort " to attract more gigafactorie to the UK . we need to develop a resilient , sustainable and efficient supply chain and build up skill capability . that take leadership , and it be about time we see some from the Government . we definitely need a strategy , and one that be interventionist in its outlook . when people decry the £ 28 billion a year that my party be commit to spend on green the economy , I have to say to they , just look at what a fraction of that could do for the car industry . I believe it could be money well spend . however , we can also do other thing well . we need to make well use of the taxpayer pound that we already spend , and the most cursory look around the fleet in most other country show that we stand almost alone in fail to recognise the importance of social value as part of our procurement process . in France , the police drive Citro ë ns , Renaults and Peugeots produce in french factory . in Germany , they drive Mercedes , BMWs and Volkswagens . in Spain they drive seat vehicle ; in Sweden , it be Saabs and Volvos and in Italy they drive Alfa Romeos , Fiats and even sometimes Lamborghinis . all those country be govern by the same directive as we use to be , yet they all seem to be able to procure vehicle in the way that support their own industry . we be no long part of the EU , so we have no excuse now , and I ask myself what be stop we be able to make use of public sector procurement power to support our automotive sector . I ask myself why police officer in Cheshire be use vehicle make thousand of mile away when they could be in vehicle make just down the road at Vauxhall Motors . it do not have to be that way . the automotive sector have have more than its fair share of challenge due to Brexit , as we have hear , but let we use some of those so - call new - find freedom to bring we some benefit as well . a proper strategy on charge point be need , but , just as with the overall industrial strategy , there be a mistaken belief that thing should just be leave to the market . in consumer ’ mind there be now hesitancy about move over to EVs and make a huge financial commitment at a time of cost of living crisis . the initial cost and inconvenience of run an electric vehicle be at the forefront of their consideration . brand - new electric vehicle be far more expensive than second - hand traditional vehicle and , while electric vehicle be become a great proportion of new sale , I be concerned that we will face a natural ceiling on they before too long . as technology progress and electric vehicle become more numerous on the road , focus have turn to the availability and practicality of own one . concern have arise around access to and the cost of on - street charging . give that around one third of UK home do not have access to off - street parking , whether a driveway or a garage , we need a more effective way to public charging before we reach 2030 . there be also a profound unfairness in the fact that those whose property lack driveway pay four time as much in vat as those who can use domestic supply of electricity . the Government ' s commitment to build 300 , 000 new charging point be to be welcome , but between 2017 and 2022 only 1 , 603 be instal , and almost 75 % of those be locate in the west midland , the south - east and London . the north - west receive only 0 . 7 % of the total instal . London now possess 100 % of the charge point require by 2025 , yet every other region in the country be lack . accord to analysis by Transport & Environment , most of the UK ' s region possess less than 50 % of the estimate charging capacity require by 2025 . in region such as my own in the north - west , the north - east , the south - west and Northern Ireland , it be only around 30 % of the capacity require . my local authority , Cheshire West and Chester , have only 28 % of the charger require by 2025 — a stark comparison with wealthy London borough such as Westminster , which already have 358 % of the charger it need . that be not a good record for a Government who stand on a platform of level up the country — there appear to be no strategy to deal with those regional disparity . I be not sure that the Government even recognise that they exist . there be a huge opportunity for so - call " leave behind " town to receive some central investment for major charging point , so that those who can not access private source of electricity can come in to their town centre , charge their car and rejuvenate their town centre at the same time . there be a real opportunity there , but it will not happen by chance ; it need Government action . when the Government ' s report on charge infrastructure acknowledge that the process be arduous , we have to ask what they be go to do to change it . the report state : " instal and operating chargepoint require several party across the energy sector , local government and the transport sector to work together effectively . " but where do the responsibility for that ultimately lie ? that be the endgame for the whole automotive sector . someone have to step up to the plate and say , " yes , this jewel in the crown of our manufacturing sector be go to be support and support properly , because we recognise that for our constituent , for our economy and for our environment , the car industry in the UK will only survive if there be the political will , back up by a properly fund strategy , to make sure that it actually happen . " if the conservative party will not do that , it should make way for one that will . it be an honour to follow the excellent speech of my hon . friend the Member for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) . as someone who be passionate about this industry , I would say that there be huge support for talk up the sector on the Opposition side of the Chamber , as we have hear in the contribution of colleague over the last couple of hour . when I think of the sector ' s contribution to UK plc , I think about the alloy wheel be make in Fort William , the Ferodo brake be make in Chapel - en - le - Frith and the panel be beat out in various part of the country . I think about the like of the factory just around the corner from where I live that make the gearbox for the Bugatti Veyron , no less . up and down this country we have some of the fine company and the fine engineer make product , contribute to the supply chain and to the original equipment manufacturer that produce vehicle of all sort , from motorbike to digger . I also pay tribute to a great old friend of mine who we all remember , Jack Dromey , who call this automotive industry the " jewel in the crown " of UK manufacturing . that be something I have always believe , and indeed I spend a great deal of my life work in it . on the point about the few contribution make about the sector in this place , back in May 2018 I hold a parliamentary debate on the subject , and I be disappoint by the number of contribution from certain quarter . five year ago , I talk about the challenge that the industry face , and the point I make then be hardly different from some of the point that the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders have highlight in its five - point plan . the real fear across the industry be that the Government be not acknowledge the importance of the sector , and certainly have not over recent year . until a few year ago , the right hon . member for Tunbridge Wells ( Greg Clark ) have an industrial strategy , which be recognise by the industry , but that have , of course , fall by the wayside . indeed , I attend the SMMT international conference a year ago . a collection of industry head from around the world , as well as UK boss from right across the sector , be assemble for a full day ' s conference . the keynote speech be give by the Prime Minister , who be then Chancellor . sadly , it last a minute and 40 second . I will not put word into the mouth of other , but the reality be that , that day , the industry feel utterly disrespect by this place . the Government be the Government , but the industry think , " well , what do Parliament really think about the contribution we be make to the UK economy ? " such a short keynote speech be feel , by japanese or european colleague who come over here to listen to the UK Chancellor , to devalue the industry ' s work , as well as its investment . unfortunately , those signal be very badly read in boardroom across the world because , of course , the UK industry be make up of company that be headquarter in Japan , Paris , Munich or wherever , and they listen carefully to the message come out of this place . that be important . to give credit where it be due , Margaret Thatcher actually recognise the importance of the UK industry by bail out British Leyland back in the day , which save brand such as Jaguar Land Rover and Mini , as well by attract inward investment from the like of Honda , Toyota and Nissan . sadly , we have lose investment from Honda , Ford and other in the past few year . that be why we be at a challenging point for the industry ' s future . we be bless to have some great company here , include Jaguar Land Rover , Stellantis , as we have hear , and BMW Mini . then , of course , we have luxury and performance manufacturer such as Rolls - Royce , Bentley , McLaren , Aston Martin — just down the road from I — and all the other myriad specialist company , include Lotus , Caterham , Morgan and so on . the sector be even wide if we include the like of Norton , Triumph — about which we have hear — JCB and Caterpillar , as well the bus and coach manufacturer that have a presence here and in Northern Ireland , such as Wrightbus , which be do some superb product development and address the need to get to net zero . the sector be so valuable . it can contribute £ 67 billion in turnover and £ 14 billion in add value to the UK economy , and it typically invest £ 3 billion a year in research and development . however , the industry have be so reliant on fossil fuel that the transition to net zero be a critical point in its history . I will outline some of the issue , one of which be the political stability — or the lack of it — to revive and attract the business investment that we need . of course , I welcome this morning ' s announcement by Renault - geely , but we be really behind the curve . I will also pick up on a few challenge such as the ZEV mandate and the new trading relationship with Europe , include , of course , the rule of origin issue , which be so critical . I will then touch on energy and the other import cost that be a real drag on investment in the UK , as well as the need for an EV and hydrogen infrastructure mandate if we be to get the sector go . the transition need a clear industrial strategy ; it need to become a political priority . sadly , the word " industrial strategy " have not really be part of the Government ' s vernacular over the past few year , as we have hear . make UK say that , under this government , we have have a decade of " flip - flopping " on industrial strategy . do they back business or not ? Boris Johnson clearly do not , go by his immortal word . of course , we have the kamikaze Budget of last autumn . that be all damaging to the way in which the global industry perceive the UK . this be not talk down the UK ; it be the reality of the message come out of this place . business want security and stability before they invest for , say , 30 or 40 year . think about the Toyota plant at Burnaston , which have just celebrate its 30th year — that be a fantastic achievement . Nissan , of course , be that bit old , but those be really prize asset that we have . turn to net zero and the Government ' s ambition with electric vehicle , we need to press on that issue and ramp up battery manufacture . as we have hear , we be way behind compare with other country , but we also need to support wide adoption of vehicle . the plan we have — offer interest - free loan and potentially trialle a national scrappage scheme — be important . however , as I say , the charge point network for EV be way behind schedule . my hon . friend the Member for Worsley and Eccles South ( Barbara Keeley ) make the point that more ev charging point be be instal in Westminster than in the north of the country . that be quite a sobering statistic , and where we do have those few charger , they be all too often poorly maintain . there need to be a mandate to ensure that that infrastructure be deliver , not just for ev but for hydrogen hub . we have make something like a tenth of the investment in hydrogen hub that Germany have , which of course will be aim at future heavy good vehicle and other mass transport system . until recently , we have 12 hub ; that number have now fall to six , I think , so we be go backwards when it come to hydrogen hub . we have talk about battery production , and hear the passionate speech from my hon . friend the Member for Wansbeck ( Ian Lavery ) . as someone who go to his constituency 40 year ago , I know how important that gigafactory would be for his constituent , and I would love to see that happen . the technology be move on rapidly : we can look at the work be do by Warwick Manufacturing Group , which be lead the development of battery technology , or by UKBIC , which be the industrialisation centre just outside Coventry . the UK absolutely could be at the forefront of that work , but we need the investment to make it happen , and as demonstrate by Britishvolt , that have just not be happen . there be some question about what be happen with Recharge Industries as well . I touch on hydrogen ; member have also make point about sustainable fuel , and there be something to be say about what could be do in that sector . the motorsport industry be do a huge amount of work explore those technology , and again , we be very much at the forefront of what can be do in that space — how exist internal combustion engine could be use with that kind of fuel to bring they close to net zero . that innovation be so important , whether it be through motorsport or our high education institution . we hear about HORIBA mira from the hon . member for Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) and we have motorsport valley down the M40 , but the Advanced Propulsion Centre at Warwick be also do some fascinating work , support new company with emerge technology to make they commercially viable . as the Government will know , there be some real concern about the ZEV mandate , certainly about the tradeable element and what it will mean if manufacturer miss their target , as well as what those target will be after 2030 . then , of course , we have the rule of origin , which — as we have hear from colleague , particularly " the Stellantis three " — be a real and critical hit to the sector . I be not sure whether I be a Stellantis fourth in disguise . in spirit . maybe in spirit , yes — that be exactly what it be . those tariff will be real tariff , go both way , but they will particularly impact on battery electric vehicle . that be why Labour would prioritise an agreement with the EU , because we have to deliver a modern border and custom framework that will facilitate smooth and cost - effective trade . I will make a couple of other point . we need the skill to make this all happen , both in the network of our dealer and in our factory and our manufacturing sector , but we also need clean energy . we have such a cost disadvantage in this country compare with France and a lot of Europe , but particularly when compare with Spain , where energy cost something like a tenth of what it do here . that be why Labour will launch an urgent mission for a fossil fuel - free electricity system by 2030 , because we have to reduce the cost to business and to ev driver as well . when we see the work that President Biden be do through the IRA , we realise just how much can be do with a vision , and that be what I think be frustrating so many want - to - be investor in this country . in closing , I come back to the speech of my hon . friend the Member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) , which I think be a clinical dissection of the challenge face the sector . this be a really important sector — from e - mobility to motorbike and digger — for the value it provide not just in the abstract to UK plc , but as I cite in my opening remark , to community and constituency up and down the country . when I speak to business in the sector , which be virtually every week and certainly every fortnight , they impress upon I the desperate need for some clarity because they want to make long - term decision . these be company such as JLR , Stellantis , Toyota , Nissan , BMW , Mini and other , and decision have be make by board elsewhere around the world . that be why , with colleague , I will always talk up this industry . it be an industry that I think be so important to our future , and an industry at the point of transition . however , we will be honest about the challenge . we must champion the prospect and what this country can provide to they , because we want the investment , and the industry want we to provide regulatory , political and economic stability . to wind up , I call the shadow Transport Secretary . this have be an excellent debate , inform by real expert from across the House who be clear champion of their constituency and of the automotive industry . I think the House can agree , follow today ' s debate , that our automotive industry be truly the crown of british industry . however , I would say very gently to the Minister that her speech really do sound out of touch with the reality that the industry and the workforce across our country be currently face . we be treat to 35 minute , but there be absolutely no plan , no explanation as to why we still do not have in place the strategy to ramp up our battery production , and no plan for how we be go to deal with the loom rule of origin deadline or the ZEV mandate . as we have hear powerfully today , the industry be struggle under a Government who have no plan or strategy , and be constantly risk more job be ship overseas . my hon . friend the Members for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) , for Luton South ( Rachel Hopkins ) , for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) , for Llanelli ( Dame Nia Griffith ) , for Wansbeck and for Warwick and Leamington ( Matt Western ) all spell out clearly the impact of this on their community . this debate have be enormously enhance by their contribution , and they be huge champion of the automotive industry in this place . in the face of the new geopolitical reality and the approach our global ally be take , the Government ' s current approach be little short of reckless . the Biden Administration be at the forefront of this new economic approach , take an active role in rebuild America ' s manufacture base through their groundbreake Inflation Reduction Act and the CHIPS Act . the European Union , with its Net Zero Industry Act , aim for 40 % of its green industry to be base at home , and the Powering Australia plan be set to create 600 , 000 job and spur 76 billion australian dollar of investment . yet here in the UK , this Government seem content to settle for less and be resign to good job and green growth continue to head overseas . so much for level up : it be exactly the community that have already suffer from deindustrialisation that will be hit all over again . we know the story , and we have hear it again today , of how good , high - skilled , well - pay job disappear and their alternative be low - pay and insecure , and of how poverty rise , inequality increase and the social fabric of community be permanently tear . we simply can not allow it to happen again , because the warning sign be already flash . just two week ago , the Business and Trade Secretary and I both speak at the british car manufacturer conference . the industry be clear that it urgently need a strategy — or anything — from this Government . Mike Hawes , who have be quote many time today , warn : " we just need a plan , and one more cunning than Baldrick ' s . I don ' t care whether it ' s call industrial competitiveness , activism , or dare we say it , an industrial strategy . we just know we need it , and we need it urgently . " what do the Secretary of State have to say in response ? I quote directly : " we will come out with plan soon , please stick with we " . be that really the good the Government can offer — beg industry to wait a little long and to hold its nerve , as they admit that they have no plan after 13 year in government ? the reality be that we can not afford to wait any long . for decade , our car industry have be at the forefront of innovation and expertise . we have hear fantastic example of that from my hon . friend the Members for Warwick and Leamington , for Ellesmere Port and Neston , for Birmingham , Perry Barr ( Mr Mahmood ) , for Llanelli , and for Luton North , as well as from my hon . friend the Member for Luton South , who be a fantastic champion of motorsport . under the Conservatives , however , we be lose the race for the job of the future . car production have already slump by one - third since 2010 . by 2025 , Germany will manufacture 10 time more battery than we do , and the US 30 time . we hear the whole sorry tale of the history of Britishvolt from my hon . friend the Member for Wansbeck . he be right — it be an ideal site for a gigafactory , because it have the grid connection and supply chain in the north - east , but it have be fail , repeatedly , by this Government . manufacturer be already leave the UK or shut up shop : arrival have leave Bicester for the US ; Honda have close its Swindon plant after 35 year of production ; Ford have cut thousand of job at its Halewood plant ; and manufacturer in the supply chain such as SKF in Luton be at risk of be offshore to Poland . yet more problem be loom , self - inflict by this reckless government . we have hear many time today of the impending cliff edge through the trade and co - operation agreement , with new rule of origin requirement that will apply huge tariff to UK export if we can not produce enough battery at home . the Government have have two and a half year since the agreement be sign , but they have fail to use that time to ramp up our battery capacity . that be couple with their own loom ZEV mandate that industry have no detail about . our industry will be slap with tariff , and demand will move to country with the battery capacity such as China . community such as Llanelli , Luton , Birmingham , Elsmere Port and Wansbeck will suffer , as will those such as Blyth , West Brom , South Derbyshire , Durham , and Crewe . that be why many constituent across the country will wonder why this debate have be so one - sided and from one side of the House , and why Labour will create the condition for our car industry not just to survive , but to thrive . our vision be one where good job in the industry of the future — job that people can be proud of and raise a family on — be bring back to our industrial heartland . that be why , alongside my hon . friend the Member for Stalybridge and Hyde , we have develop a plan to turbocharge electric vehicle manufacturing . first , we will address the consequence of the Conservatives ' Brexit deal , act to avoid the cliff edge in the TCA that will slap tariff on our electric vehicle . we will rapidly scale up our domestic battery industry by part - finance eight additional gigafactorie through our green prosperity plan . we will accelerate the EV charge point roll - out by set new , bind target on government , and we will make the UK a clean energy superpower by 2030 , lower the sky - high electricity cost for UK industry and cut £ 93 billion in energy bill for the british people , by invest in clean , cheap , homegrown power for our country . with Labour ' s plan to turbocharge our ev transition the opportunity be clear for all to see , and we have hear they express loud and clear today : resilience to withstand geopolitical shock ; 80 , 000 good , green job right here , not in China ; £ 30 billion of investment across the country , forge resilience at home while create new partnership abroad ; an active state work in concert with innovative , world - lead manufacturer , pursue a modern industrial strategy ; and new life breathe into our hollowed out industrial base . Mr Deputy Speaker , Labour will not shy away from the challenge face our car industry . we will back it every step of the way , and we have the plan to prove it . I urge colleague to support our motion today . it have be an interesting and absorbing debate , and I thank all those who have take part in it . I must say that I take my hat off to the hon . member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) . it be interesting to know that he grow up in Sunderland , and I notice his great affection for the Black Cats — an affection I greatly share — Niall Quinn and the glory day of Peter Reid . who but the hon . Gentleman could well hark back to the 1990 , and how much do he do so in politic as he do in football ? it be a little unnerving to see he newly hirsute — at least in term of the past year or three . he be get an unnervingly close resemblance to his late Majesty King George V , which create a somewhat unnerving impression across the Dispatch Box when one be try to respond to the important point he make . the hon . Gentleman come , as do the hon . member for Sheffield , Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) , with a clear agenda for this debate , which be to tell a desperate story of a struggle industry and a country labour in its automotive manufacturing . unfortunately , they have both have desperately bad luck in their choice of debate , because those gloomy speech be make , and the desire for optimism be express , and then it turn out that geely and Renault have today announce a pioneer new investment to become a global leader in new engine technology . not only that : it turn out that we just lay the new charge point regulation , which will make it easy than ever to own an ev . those be widely welcome , I might add , by Mike Hawes of the smmt , who be richly quote today by Opposition Members , and with reason . fascinatingly , only today , Tesla have announce its intention to become an electricity supplier , which will itself become an enormously important part of that wide system infrastructure that have be rightly mention . what a day to choose to be gloomy on . what a day of good news , and how much that reinforce the picture of an industry that be deal brilliantly with the challenge and change to its own circumstance . will the Minister give way ? I would give way , but I want to respond to the many other point from member who actually make speech . I make a speech . I hope the hon . Lady will let I get to those point first . [ interruption . ] we can go on , or Opposition Members can listen to what the Government be try to say . the hon . member for Stalybridge and Hyde talk about low business investment , and he be absolutely right that one should not pick and choose statistic but try to give a full picture . I be , therefore , slightly surprised that he ignore the fact that business investment have grow steadily since 2010 . the Institute for Government publish a report that track the crashing of business investment in this country to the Labour Administration and date its recovery from 2008 to 2010 . that be the picture of business investment that the hon . Gentleman ask we to get to . my hon . friend the Member for Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) rightly highlight mira . what a great facility that be and what a great testing opportunity it will create for this country over the next few year . he be right to talk about grid connectivity and to mention Triumph Motorcycles , a business that I meet only the other day , but he would have want to mention the strategic framework , which be announce last year , for electricity provision . if there be a report come soon — he can speak from his knowledge of that in a parliamentary private Secretary context — I can only applaud that . the hon . member for Worsley and Eccles South ( Barbara Keeley ) worry about the roll - out of charge point . I hope she will be reassure by the new reg on charge point , which we have only just lay and which be welcome by the smmt and many other player across that industry . I also hope she will be pleased that ChargeUK , represent the charge point operator , have announce that £ 6 billion will be invest in charge point across the country over the next few year . that be a direct result of the ZEV mandate , which tie the creation of charge point infrastructure to the support for ev in the systemic way that party across the House , include the Opposition , recognise . it be those two thing that will grow together . it be the ability to aim against that target of specific ev number come into and be sell in this country that create the priming for private investment , and rightly so . I be pleased to hear the contribution of the hon . member for Birmingham , Perry Barr ( Mr Mahmood ) , who be absolutely right to raise the topic of apprenticeship . as an apprentice in this House , I salute he ; he echo the " Education , education , education " policy of a former Member of this House with " Skills , skill , skill " , which I completely agree be very important . let I remind he that in my constituency we be pioneer a specialist STEM technology university — the New Model Institute for Technology and Engineering — which be just the thing that can be use to build skill and to prime levelling up across the country . what a wonderfully fresh and enthusiastic speech from the hon . member for Gordon ( Richard Thomson ) . I be excited to hear it , but tragically it turn out to be a tag - team " curse on both your house " misery exercise , relitigate Brexit long after that horse have leave the stable . that be rightly pick up by the hon . member for Stalybridge and Hyde , who do not want to be draw on Brexit . I understand why : the country take a decision and we be work with the consequence . the hon . member for Gordon say that the speech by my hon . friend the Minister for Industry and Economic Security — a brilliant speech it be , too — be the length of time it would take to charge an ev . at 35 minute , that be not quite true , but that be absolutely the ambition that we want to get to for all ev operator across the country . we want people to be able to charge very rapidly while they go and pick up a cup of coffee in the usual way . I thank the hon . member for Llanelli ( Dame Nia Griffith ) for her comment . she ask for a renewable energy focus and be right to do so . I hope that I can reassure she by remind she that National Grid report that in 2010 less than 20 % of our energy be renewable , while in 2022 — last year — more than 50 % be renewable in five month of the year . that be tremendous progress . she may also be pleased to know that coal , which be use for 43 % of electricity generation in 2012 , be now at 1 . 5 % . that be tremendous progress on both those front . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . listen to the Minister ' s response , I want to give he the opportunity to correct the record . not only do he seem not to be live on the same planet as we , but he be clearly not in the same Chamber . he imply that I have not speak in the debate , but I give a lengthy speech on the issue we be face in Luton right now . I invite he to correct the record at the Dispatch Box . I would be happy to respond to the hon . Lady . that be not actually what I say . I say that I want to respond to the speech and therefore I would not take intervention at that time . I will of course — [ interruption . ] if she would prefer I to respond not to her speech but to an intervention , I will let she make an intervention . I thank the Minister for finally allow an intervention . he talk about optimism . do he feel optimistic that the manufacturing industry now face a 10 % tariff on passenger car and a 22 % tariff on van ? do he believe that we should all be optimistic about that future , or do he believe the reality — that the manufacturing industry face a cliff edge ? if that be the good the hon . Lady can do , she would have be well to wait for my response to her speech . no , the truth of the matter be that this country be engage in discussion and negotiation with european partner about the circumstance — we export an enormous number of car , which be an important fact from their point of view as it be from our — and it would be futile to discuss those matter in public . we all know that none of these negotiation be ever do in public , and that include commercial negotiation , which Labour appear to wish to be do in public as well . let I proceed a little more . the hon . member for Luton South ( Rachel Hopkins ) , for Wansbeck ( Ian Lavery ) and for Sheffield , Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) touch on new gigafactorie . I invite Opposition Front - Bench Members to comment far if they wish , because this be a much - herald part of the labour strategy , and if the Labour party seek to subsidise eight new gigafactorie , perhaps they would like to put on record how much public money — taxpayer ' s money — they propose to spend on that and how it would be fund . we very much look forward to see their plan . I will be interested to see whether they bear any resemblance to market condition or show any sign of do anything other than immiserate and impoverish the british taxpayer . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House recognise that the automotive industry be the jewel in the crown of british manufacturing and believe it can have a bright future create good job for people across the UK ; regret that after 13 year of conservative neglect the UK risk lose this world - class industry , put thousand of job under threat ; condemn the Government for its lack of an industrial strategy and the negative impact this have have on investment in the UK ' s automotive sector ; call on the Government to urgently resolve the rule of origin change which be due to take effect in 2024 , work with partner across Europe to negotiate a deal that work for manufacturer ; and far call on the Government to adopt an active industrial strategy to build the battery factory capacity need to secure the automotive sector for decade to come . I have now to announce the result of today ' s deferred Division on the Adjournment , summer , conference and Christmas recess motion . the Ayes be 395 and the Noes be 5 , so the Ayes have it . [ the Division list be publish at the end of today ' s debate . ] under - age vaping I beg to move , that this House be concerned that child be be inappropriately expose to e - cigarette promotion and that under - age vaping have increase by 50 % in just the last three year ; condemn the Government for its failure to act to protect child by vote against the addition of measure to prohibit branding which be appeal to child on e - cigarette packaging during the passage of the Health and Care Act 2022 and for fail to bring forward the tobacco control plan that it promise by the end of 2021 ; and therefore call on the Government to ban vape from be brand and advertise to appeal to child and to work with local council and the NHS to help ensure that e - cigarette be be use as an aid to stop smoking , rather than as a new form of smoking . it be a pleasure to open this debate on behalf of his Majesty ' s opposition . we be witness an incredibly alarming rise in under - age vaping . in many way , the statistic speak for themselves . a recent study conduct by action on Smoking and Health find that in the last three year alone , the number of child take part in so - call experimental vaping have increase by 50 % . that have come alongside significant growth in awareness of e - cigarette promotion , with 85 % of child now conscious of e - cigarette marketing either in shop or online . what do that promotion look like ? if hon . member walk down any high street in the country and pop into a vaping shop or off - licence , they will see it at first hand . brightly colour e - liquid with name such as " blue razz " , " cherry cola " or " vampire vape " line the shelf . some liquid be even design to imitate well - know brand . we can find " Len & Jenny ' s mint Oreo cookie " alongside " pick it mix it sherbet lemon " . in fact , it really be not an exaggeration to say that some store sell vape resemble old fashioned sweet shop , with pretty much any flavour we can think of cover in cartoon - lead packaging . let we make no mistake , this be not package market towards adult . it be deliberately design to appeal to child and , most concerningly , it appear to be work . like my hon . friend , I have be horrify to see custard , banana , bubble gum and doughnut - flavour vape , clearly target at young palate . they be clearly not about help people cease smoking . one of the challenge be that we know child be increasingly move from vape to actual cigarette . do he agree that there be no case for any further delay in the Government ' s work to look at how we take vape out of the hand of young people all together ? our generation all fight so hard against Nick o ' teen ; now , we have Mr Vape to deal with . do he agree that it must be an urgent public health priority ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . there be a place for banana , custard and even doughnut , but that be not on a vape package . she be right that we need to close the loophole and protect child ' s health . that be why we have table this motion . in a recent evidence session on youth vaping , Laranya Caslin , the headteacher at St George ' s Academy in Sleaford , tell the Health and Social Care Committee : " we have a significant proportion of student vape . they vape regularly " . the problem be so bad that St George ' s have have to change smoke sensor to heat sensor , to clamp down on young people leave the classroom to vape . I would love that to be an isolated case , but we all know , across the House , that it be not . in Hartlepool , concern have be raise about an increase in primary school child use vape — that be just shocking . in Devon , school have report confiscate e - cigarette from child as young as seven . those claim seem to be reinforce by the fact that last year 15 child age nine or under be hospitalise due to vaping , with health expert warn that the excessive use of e - cigarette in child could be link to lung collapse , lung bleeding and air leak . in Yorkshire and the Humber , it be estimate that 30 % of secondary school student have try vaping , which equate to around 109 , 000 child . it be just staggering . I be grateful to the shadow Minister for give way . I have hear really shocking report from parent and teacher in my constituency that child as young as 11 be use vape and that one young person , at the age of 17 , be now addict . in the bad case I be hear , some young child be be target and be take the vape apart to carry much hard drug on the inside , which be cause an even big problem . do the hon . Gentleman agree with I that we simply can not wait any long ? we need urgent action from the Government to stop that happen . the hon . Lady make a powerful case . those be precisely the reason why we have call this debate . it should shock each and every one of we . the ease of access to e - cigarette for child , many young than the age she give as an example , just can not be allow . we must be do all we can on e - cigarette , as we do to tackle the packaging and advertising of actual cigarette , to ensure that child be wean off their nicotine addiction and that other child do not start vape in the first place . my hon . friend be make a very effective speech to open this debate . he quote the figure of 30 % for Yorkshire and the Humber . the figure for the north - west be 29 % , which show very little difference . those figure be twice that for London , so it may be that some hon . member be not aware of how bad the problem be get . the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health have warn that youth vaping be fast become an epidemic . worryingly , the number of child admit to hospital as a result of vaping have almost quadruple . be my hon . friend , as a fellow Greater Manchester MP , concerned about how many more child might suffer those health impact before the Government take the action that be need ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend . as a Greater Manchester MP , I see the problem in my constituency and she will see it in hers . it concern I greatly , because within our city region there be already community that have some of the bad health inequality . a lot of those health inequality have be exacerbate by a high than average prevalence of smoking . even now , as smoking rate have decline , there be still community in the area we represent that have an abnormally high number of smoker . I do not want , in tackle smoke and reduce some of the health inequality that be cause through smoking , to be store up future problem with a new generation cause as a direct consequence of vaping or , more sinisterly , as a gateway to smoking later on in life . she be absolutely right . I be grateful to the shadow Minister for give way ; he be make a very good speech . no one in this country have ever be show to have die from vaping , whereas thousand of people die each year from smoking . yes , the emphasis should be on stop child from gain access to vaping and dissuade adult non - smoker from take up vaping , but do he agree that we should not lose sight of the benefit of vape for adult smoker in give up smoking and therefore lead a healthy lifestyle ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right , and later in my speech I will discuss the fact that vaping be a really important tool to assist people who want to stop smoke — indeed , Javed Khan , in his smoke - free 2030 review , make it clear that vaping have an important role to play in that respect . we certainly do not want to throw the baby out with the bathwater , but we absolutely should be ensure that child ' s access to vape be restrict and that the marketing of vape be not do in way that attract a new cohort of people who would never have smoke or vape . while vaping be well for people than smoking , not vape be well than vape or smoking , and we do not want to create new problem . I be sure my hon . friend have see the study by King ' s College London and Action on Smoking and Health on the attraction of vaping , which conclude that among teenager de - brand vape have a deterrent effect on their purchase they , whereas it have no effect on adult . do he agree with that study and do he support action be take along those line ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for succinctly state the reason for this debate . that study be very clear : for adult , the appearance of the packaging make no difference , but child and young people be attract to the bright colour and cartoon character and so on . the same argument be make about smoking and lead to we move several year ago to standardise cigarette packaging . the evidence on child vaping be now so overwhelming that Parliament must take the lead . industry will not act without a nudge from we . we must make sure that vape be not package and advertise in a way that attract child . in a recent article pen for the Independent , a teacher in Oxfordshire describe have be : " rostere on to control number of student in the toilet block in an attempt to prevent the constant vaping that go on in there . " she go on to describe discover " a stash of over 50 vape store above a ceiling panel in the toilet — a tactic learn and share on TikTok . " worryingly , ASH estimate that most child who vape make the purchase themselves , despite it be illegal to sell vape to those under the age of 18 . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . only yesterday , I have a call from a head of year in Gowerton School in my constituency who want to know why the police and social service be not act on his report of sale of vape in a barber ' s shop in Swansea city centre . do my hon . friend agree that it be up to the police , social service and trading standard to take a stand and stop the face - to - face sale of vape to under - age child ? absolutely . there have to be a strategy that be not just about restrict packaging and advertising . there have to be more enforcement at the local level . I have some sympathy with local government , which have have to endure massive cut over the past 13 year , so that thing such as trading standard have be cut right back to the bone , but there can be no excuse whatsoever for shop sell these product to child . every action should be take to prevent that and to enforce the law . the hon . Gentleman be make an interesting and important speech , but he be focus on advertising , marketing , the bright colour and the sweet flavour , and he have not mention price . price promotion be ban for tobacco , yet vape can sometimes be buy for three for £ 12 , which be pocket money territory . the right hon . Lady be absolutely right . we table the motion because we believe that the action it call for be something we can do quickly , but the price of vape be also a driver , and she be right that we should look into deal whereby vape can be buy really cheaply — as she say , with pocket money — because that would be another step to take vaping out of the reach of child and young people . as I say , ASH estimate that most child who vape make the purchase themselves . put simply , child be then increasingly be hook on to addictive substance that be deliberately package — and , indeed , sometimes price — to catch their eye . this affect not only their health but their education . who could have see it come ? well , not the Government , it turn out . in November 2021 , my hon . friend the Member for City of Durham ( Mary Kelly Foy ) table an amendment to the Health and Care Bill that would have give the Secretary of State the power to prohibit brand that appeal to child on e - cigarette packaging . it receive cross - party support but be vote down by the Government . when the Minister stand up in a few minute and claim that the Government be on top of the epidemic of youth vaping , I hope he will explain to the House — to member from all party who support that measure — why the Government vote down that sensible amendment in 2021 , and why they be still fail to do something about this acute problem now . sadly , this approach to public health have become all too familiar when it come to the Conservatives . we be promise a tobacco control plan ; that be bin . we be promise a health disparity White Paper ; that be bin . we be promise a ban on junk food advertising to child ; that be bin . why ? because the Prime Minister be too weak to take on those on the fringe of his own party who view public health with suspicion . that be why , on the Conservatives ' watch , health inequality have widen , and why vaping company have be give free rein to profit off child and young people . the next Labour Government will not allow the trend to continue , which be why in Labour ' s health mission we have be clear that we will ban the packaging and marketing of vape to child , and we will come down like a ton of brick on those who sell vape illegally to child . I agree with the shadow Minister that this be an increasingly serious issue that we must arrest . do he agree that this be not just a health mission but an education mission ? the sure reason why young people will now either give up and desist or not take up vaping be if they understand the harm and the risk , so the new education provision that the Government be help to bring forward in school , whereby child themselves will speak to their peer to communicate the risk , be a really important and welcome intervention . of course education have a role . when I go to secondary school , we be educate about the harm of smoking , although it do not stop a number of my peer become addict to cigarette — to nicotine and tobacco . education have a role , then , but it do not have a full role . we only really clamp down on smoking and cut the number of people who smoke when we introduce regulation on smoking , include the smoking ban , which I be incredibly proud that a Labour Government introduce because it have have massive public health benefit for many people in the year since . my hon . friend the Member for Southampton , Test ( Dr Whitehead ) refer to the research conduct by King ' s College London in conjunction with ASH , which suggest that the removal of child - friendly imagery and colour on e - cigarette can reduce their appeal to child while , crucially , not discourage their use by adult smoker to quit . this be precisely the balance that the next Labour Government want to strike , so that vape be use exclusively as a stop - smoke tool by adult , not as a way of get young people hook on highly addictive substance such as nicotine . I would hope that ambition be share on both side of the House but , unless the Minister change his mind at the Dispatch Box , the Government be still refuse to commit to a promotion ban . that be bizarre because , in a recent interview , the Prime Minister be ask about the marketing of vape to child , and he say : " it look like they be target at kid , which be ridiculous . " the Prime Minister also say : " the marketing and the illegal sale of vape to child be completely unacceptable and I will do everything in my power to end this practice for good . " apparently , everything in his power do not include ban the practice of advertising vape in this way . instead , the Government have announce yet another call for evidence , far kick into the long grass the action that academic , teacher , parent and member on both side of the House all agree be essential now . the Government can try all they like to feign outrage at the current situation , but it be partly because of their inaction that we find ourselves in this mess . the Department of Health and Social Care could easily have include these measure in its tobacco control plan , have it not decide to scrap that plan . the measure be eminently sensible , and we do not need another call for evidence to tell we what we can all see in our own community . when the Minister respond , I be sure he will point to the illicit vape enforcement squad that the Government announce back in April to enforce rule on vaping and to tackle illegal sale . the squad be obviously welcome , but a few thing remain unclear . first , when will the squad start its fieldwork ? in a recent answer to a write parliamentary question , the Minister admit that it will not be until " later this year " . when specifically ? we be now in July . what be parent and guardian who be concerned about their child ' s vaping expect to do in the meantime ? what the Minister announce in April simply do not add up to a comprehensive tobacco control plan or a strategy for a smoke - free 2030 , nor will it stop the company that be specifically target vape and e - liquid at our child . the Minister know it and we know it , so let we drop the pretence . the next Labour Government will end the 13 year of Tory public health neglect that have see health inequality widen and healthy life expectancy stall and go into reverse in some community . in our health mission , we pledge to make this country a Marmot nation , to tackle the social inequality that influence health and to ensure that child have the very good start possible , to give they the building block for a healthy life . there have be no join - up plan for public health for 13 year , and the british people have pay the price . that be why Labour will put a mission delivery board right at the heart of Government — one that work across the whole of Whitehall to deliver secure job , fair pay , adequate housing , safe street and clean air . the next Labour Government will build on our legacy of smoking cessation and take the bold step need to reach a smoke - free future , a future that have drift far and far away under this rudderless Government . we will tackle underage vaping and work alongside council and the NHS to ensure that vape be use exclusively as a stop - smoking aid . in short , prevention be well than cure . we will reform our healthcare system so that it focus relentlessly on prevent the cause of ill health in the first place . for voter , the next general election will be a crystal - clear choice : choose a Conservative Government who have undo decade of progress when it come to public health , or choose a Labour Government who will work day in , day out to give everyone in Britain the opportunity to lead a happy , healthy and fulfilling life . I commend our motion to the House . protect child from the risk of vaping be a key Government priority . we regulate vaping , with a minimum age of sale of 18 ; advertising restriction , such as a ban on tv and radio ; and a cap on nicotine level and tank size . however , in the past two year there have be an increase in child vaping , which be why we have already take action and will take further action . despite its effectiveness as a tool for adult to quit smoking , we be concerned about the risk that vape pose to child and non - smoker . vape be not risk - free . nicotine be highly addictive and can be harmful , and there be unanswered question on the long - term use of vaping . as Professor Chris Whitty , the chief medical officer say : " if you smoke , vaping be much safe ; if you don ' t smoke , don ' t vape " . so early this year , in April , I announce new measure to step up our effort to stop child get hook on vaping . first , I announce a new specialised illicit vapes enforcement squad . it be a dedicated new team to tackle underage vape sale and the illicit product that young people have access to , hold company to account and enforce the rule . we be provide £ 3 million of new funding to trading standard , which will help to share knowledge and intelligence across the country ; undertake test purchasing ; disrupt illicit supply , include by organise crime gang ; remove illegal product from our shelf and at our border ; and undertake more testing to ensure compliance with our rule , bolster the training capacity of trading standard . we have already make firm withdraw product where they do not comply with the rule . with the new squad , more company that fail to comply with the law will be hold accountable . I be pleased to announce that the National Trading Standards have begin its operation — that directly answer the question ask by the hon . member for Denton and Reddish ( Andrew Gwynne ) — and be gather intelligence , training staff and bolstering capacity to begin its fieldwork . in April , I also launch a call for evidence on youth vaping , to identify opportunity to reduce the number of child access and use vape product , and to explore where Government can go far . our call for evidence explore a range of issue about how we ensure regulatory compliance . it be partly about the appearance and characteristic of vape , include colour and flavour , and partly about their marketing and promotion , particularly the role of social medium . our call for evidence close on 6 June and the Government be urgently and carefully examine the response . I know that the Minister be commit to close that loophole that allow vape company to give child free sample , but , as we have all discuss , this be about the direct gateway effect between people vape and then smoke . parent in Walthamstow they be convince that more child will end up smoking as a result of be able to access vaping in any form at all . so why be the Government consulting on limit access to vaping for under - 18 , rather than just stop it altogether ? we be try to stop access to vape for the under - 18 — it be literally illegal . we be try not only to enforce the law but to reduce demand , as we have be discuss in this debate . we be not in disagreement about what the objective be : we do not want any kid to smoke or to vape — it be as simple as that . the Minister say that this be " literally illegal " . accord to the director general of the UK Vaping Industry Association , 40 % to 50 % of the disposable vape market be make up of illicit product . so do the Minister agree that as well improve the regulation of vape within the legal market that we have hear about so far , we must also see improvement to border security , to clamp down on illicit vape sale ? I completely agree with the hon . Lady on that point ; this be exactly what our enforcement squad be do , and I completely agree about the importance of do it . on the call for evidence , we will be produce our response in early autumn , identify and outline area where the Government will go far . the key point be that we need evidence to take effective action to stop child vape . while that call for evidence have be run , we have already take further step . at the end of May , the Prime Minister announce several new measure to support our effort to tackle youth and kid ' vaping . that include close the loophole in our law that have be allow company to give out free sample of vape to under - 18 , which ASH estimate could total as many as 20 , 000 a year . he also announce that we will overhaul the rule on sell nicotine - free vape to under - 18 and on issue fine to shop sell vape to the under - 18 . the Prime Minister also announce that we will update the school curriculum , to emphasise the health risk of vape within relationship , sex and health education lesson , just as school currently do for smoking and drinking , so that kid understand the risk of vaping . we will be write to police force to ensure dedicated school liaison officer across the country be use the new resource available to keep illegal vape out of school . I want to use this opportunity to outline the work we be do to successfully reduce smoking , not least because the Opposition Front - Bench spokesperson touch on it . in the 1970 , more than 40 % of people smoke , and it be still 21 % in 2010 . since then , we have take a series of step , include double excise duty and introduce a minimum excise tax on the cheap cigarette , that have help to drive down smoking to a record low of just 13 % in England . we have go from 21 % to 13 % , but of course we want to go far . in 2019 , we announce our ambition for England to go smoke - free by 2030 , which be consider to be 5 % or less . over the past decade , we have make significant progress towards make England smoke free . we have continue to invest in local stop - smoking service , to help smoker get the right support for they . we continue to work in support of the NHS . last year alone , we provide £ 35 million to the NHS long - term plan commitment on smoking . youth smoking rate be now at their low rate on record . in 2021 , just 3 . 3 % of 15 - year - old be regular smoker , although of course we want to reduce that figure even far . through the new measure I announce in April , the Government will be support many more smoker to quit through the tobacco reduction strategy . some 1 million smoker will be encourage to Swap to stop , swap cigarette for vape under a new national scheme that target those who be most at risk and give they free vape . that be first scheme of its kind in the world . it be base on experience from the successful local pilot , and be an evidence - base initiative . likewise , we will offer innovative , but evidence - base , financial incentive for all woman to stop smoke in pregnancy . again , this be base on evidence that have be gather during local pilot scheme and the strategy will be implement at a national level . shortly , we will launch a consultation on cigarette pack insert to provide further information to support smoker to quit , which be something Canada have do successfully . far , those who supply tobacco for sale in the UK must be register for tobacco track and trace , and obtain an economic operator ID . we bring in that scheme to tackle illegal tobacco , but we now want to use the exist system in a new way , to help strengthen enforcement and to target the illicit market . from now on , when people be find sell illicit tobacco , we will not just seize their product but remove their economic operator ID , so they will no long be able to buy or sell tobacco . we be explore how to share information with local partner about who be register on the track and trace system , so that they know who be and who be not legally entitle to sell tobacco in their area , help to drive enforcement . we be committed to do all we can to prevent child from start to vape and we be already take robust action in a range of area . we be actively work on way that we can go far , but it be essential that those method be evidence base and that we have measure that will be effective . the Minister will have hear the figure give early : my hon . friend the Member for Denton and Reddish ( Andrew Gwynne ) say that 30 % of secondary school pupil in Yorkshire and Humberside have try vape and I say that the figure for the north - west be 29 % . I quote the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health say that youth vaping be " fast become epidemic " . he be talk about an evidence - base plan , but what be the situation around evidence ? my local area still have very high level of smoking , but we be now see the same pattern track in vaping among young people as we do in smoking . do he agree that there need to be different and further action in those place where the figure be so bad ? the theme of my speech be that we have already take action and we will continue to take action , but that it have to be evidence base . a range of suggestion have be make during the debate , and I be sure there will be more , about different thing to do with flavour , packaging , colour and marketing . there need to be evidence and definition about those thing . some people will probably say that we should ban all flavour ; some will say , " let ' s ban all coloured vape " ; some will say that we should have plain packaging or vape should be hide from view . we will need to take an evidence - base view on all those issue , rather than just assume that one know the answer immediately . it be not totally obvious to I what the position be of the Opposition Front Bench team on any of those issue — whether they would ban all colour , ban all flavour , demand plain packaging , or want the same kind of restriction as there be for cigarette in term of where they be place in shop . I be happy to take an intervention if the shadow team have answer to those question . be it a yes or a no to those thing ? what we be here to talk about today be advertising and packaging . I make it very clear in my contribution that the next Labour Government would act robustly on both those issue . act robustly ? I think we all want to act robustly . the shadow Minister say in his speech that he do not like banana - flavour vape , but would they be ban ? I be happy to take an intervention if the shadow team have an answer . I do not think that we have an answer . that , lady and gentleman , be why we need to have evidence . we need to have an evidence - base approach , and we need to have not just the evidence about what drive these thing , but clear definition of these thing on which we can actually take action . we have to be clear about what we be and be not do within all these field . all I be try to do be to demonstrate that , while we be committed to take action — I feel very strongly about take action on this — and while we have do a whole range of different thing on this point , we need evidence to make good policy , which be why we be have a call for evidence . the Minister will know that the Government commission the Khan review , which report on 9 June 2022 — a year ago . the Khan review take the evidence . it have the consultation and it make very firm recommendation about certain thing that the Government should do . why be we here again ? why be we consult ? why can the Government not just follow the recommendation in the Khan review ? on drive up support for people to Swap to stop , we be follow the recommendation . on the thing that we have be discuss in this debate , a whole set of other question have be raise , on which our call for evidence explicitly invite evidence , because we want to have an evidence - base policy . I be grateful to the Minister for give way , because I want to turn to the evidence . we know that , when we have plain packaging and remove advertising around cigarette sale , we see a significant decrease in the use of those product , particularly among young people . we also have other evidence : Israel introduce plain packaging in 2020 and Finland in 2022 . there be plenty of evidence out there on the implication of plain packaging , so why will the Minister not use that evidence and implement thing ? we be garner evidence on every different aspect of this policy question . in my remark today , I have try to illustrate some of the question that we be think about at the moment , which I be sure we will hear more of during the debate . I be simply try to make the point that we need definition of thing and we need evidence before we take action . in conclusion , we be commit to do all we can to stop child from vape — that be a personal priority of mine . we be also commit to stop youth smoking . in order to meet our smoke - free 2030 ambition , we be commit to do all we can to stop people from start to smoke in the first place , and to give people the support that they need to quit and save their life . it be very welcome that we be here today . there be surely nobody in this place who think that we should not be work to protect child and young people from the health harm of vape . the SNP absolutely support the motion that we be discuss today . I be also very glad that the SNP Scottish Government be take this issue seriously , too . they be look at tight restriction on vape advertising and promotion , they have a tobacco action plan be publish later this year , and an urgent review be under way of the environmental impact . certainly , the management of single - use vape be something that significantly concern I . the potential policy response could include a ban — on a personal note , I sincerely hope that that be what happen . I have be in a number of these debate and , usually , comment be make about smoking cessation . just to be clear : I be very supportive of all measure that allow people to be support to stop smoke . reusable vape be a potential option . my concern be very significantly around disposable vape , but we should look at this issue as broadly as possible . country around the world be already do that . in Argentina , Japan and Thailand , there be a complete ban on e - cigarette . in the Netherlands , production stop on 1 July and sale will end on 1 October . China , which be the main exporter of these vape worldwide , have itself ban the sale of flavour e - cigarette . as thing stand , there be 35 country , which cover around 41 % of the world population , where e - cigarette have be ban . one of the reason why I become interested in this issue be that a constituent of mine , Laura Young , draw it to my attention . she say that whenever she be out walk with her dog she see these disposable discard everywhere . of course , once she say that to I , I could no long walk anywhere without find disposable vape myself . they be everywhere . it be an incredible amount of litter . they be on street , on beach , and in our school , as we have hear . I find one in the loo in Portcullis House yesterday . they be describe as disposable , but these thing , which be be throw away so casually , be not disposable ; they contain plastic waste , and rare and potentially harmful element include lithium . I be greatly relieved that my hon . friend have touch on the environmental consequence . I realise that the motion be about child and vaping , and I think there be scarce evidence that there be anything other than harm available to child from vape , in term of their respiratory and oral health . quite apart from that , the clue be in the title : disposable vape . only 30 % of the million or so that be consume in the United Kingdom every week be recycle , and those that be dump be litter our community and environment with their heating element , lithium battery and plastic packaging . those that end up in landfill contribute significantly to the 250 fire a year at landfill site . there be literally nothing to recommend these abhorrent product , so why do she think that the Tory Government be dither in this way ? I be grateful to my hon . friend , and be delighted that he be as enraged as I be about the harm that these product be cause . I know that in his community people be equally as concerned as in mine . his comment bear reflect upon , because how realistic be it that child will find way to recycle this disposable product , or so - call disposable product , which be undoubtedly target at child , give that they be probably hide it from their parent in the first place ? there be no positive ground for keep these thing about . I secure a debate last year focus on the environmental impact , which bear reflect on . my hon . friend be right , so I be glad that he make the point that he do . I be also deeply concerned about the impact on child and young people , because these vape be so available , so invite , and so increasingly use by young people . I be particularly concerned about under - 18 . the hon . member for Denton and Reddish ( Andrew Gwynne ) , who open the debate very powerfully , talk about the Health and Social Care Committee have hear from a headteacher about the significant proportion of child vape regularly . if we speak to headteacher in any of our constituency , they will say the same thing . I be also alarmed , though unfortunately not surprised , to hear he highlight issue of primary - aged child vape . that be terrifying . it be why today ' s motion need to be take seriously . the Advertising Standards Authority say that " advert for e - cigarette must be target responsibly " . I be not sure that that be what be happen . such ad must , apparently , " not be direct at under - 18 " . again , the ASA have a job of work to do there . I wonder , although I suspect that it be perhaps unable to , whether it would want to look at issue such as sport advertising . Blackburn Rovers — other team may do this , but this be the only team that I be aware of that be do it — be be sponsor by a vaping retailer , totally Wicked , for the sixth season in a row . we would find it unacceptable if our football club come out with cigarette brand on their shirt . I can not understand why it be any more acceptable for a football club to come out with vape advertising . I be keen for the Minister , or Government Members , to address that . would the hon . Lady be similarly outraged to know that the same company support St Helens rugby football club , and call the stadium totally Wicked ? I would be equally outraged . I know how much work the hon . Lady do in this regard . I be unsurprise to find that we be both enrage by the same thing . this be really unacceptable . if we be serious about deal with the harm to child and young people , we really should expect sport club to be somewhere that they can see positive imagery and have positive influence . I recently visit a vaping shop near to where I live . I know they be sell in other outlet too , in corner shop and supermarket , on Amazon and eBay , and we have hear about they be sell in a barbershop as well . they be not difficult to find , and they be so invite . when I go into the shop , it look lovely : the display be beautiful , with nice colour and name and all kind of fancy shape that look like highlighter or lipstick . I have see some online that look like brightly coloured fidget spinner . these thing be quite enticing , be they not ? they be very attractive , and that be obviously deliberate . I be interested to hear about the King ' s College study on plain packaging , because anything that make vape less attractive to young people be obviously worth consider . I say that for many reason , one be that I hear recently about young people purchase disposable vape to match their outfit . I must say that that have never occur to I before , but why not ? if they be purchase they , they might want they to match their outfit , just as they might think about what flavour they would like , such as bubblegum or grape soda . the hon . member for Denton and Reddish talk about they look like an old - fashioned sweet shop , and he be right about that . disposable vape be design to be entice , to draw young people in . they be throwaway and they be affordable . the right hon . member for Romsey and Southampton North ( Caroline Nokes ) be absolutely right to describe they as pocket - money purchase . parent will not always know what their child be purchase with pocket money ; presumably child throw disposable vape away , as I have say , before the parent find they . as parent , we have no idea whether our child be use they . I hope mine be not , but none of we can know that , because they be so easy to find and so easy to throw away that we must be alive to the fact that we might not have the full picture . presumably we can not all have the full picture , because , if we look at the statistic , in a recent YouGov / ASH survey the proportion of child age between 11 and 17 who vape have go up from 4 % in 2020 to 7 % in 2022 , and the proportion of child who have try vape overall be now sit at 16 % . we have hear significantly high figure than that cite in this debate . I think it be reasonable to look for disposable vape to be remove from sale . that be certainly what I would like to see . I be pleased to hear call for retailer to ban single - use vape in Scotland , where environmental and health charity have join force to call for an end to the sale of disposable vape . group such as Keep Scotland Beautiful , ASH Scotland and the Marine Conservation Society be urge retailer to follow the good example of Waitrose , who I take my hat off to here , in ban the sale of those single - use product . Waitrose do that because of report suggest that their popularity be soar among people who have not previously smoke , as we have hear already , include the young generation . it be really important that we examine the subject . I be pleased about the Scottish Government ' s action in that regard and I echo Barry Fisher , the chief executive of Keep Scotland Beautiful , who also talk about a " litter emergency " and emphasise that the time to act be now . the time to act be now also on the illicit vape we have hear about already — the dodgy vape and the chemical within they . lab research show that they have up to twice the daily safe amount of lead and nine time the daily safe amount of nickel . there be also chromium in there . we do not want our child to be ingest those substance , and those study be base only on some vape confiscate from a school in England , so we do not know what else be out there ; we just know it should not be . Dodgy vape have deeply concern health impact . in Scotland , there have be report of illegal vape confiscate from a school that leave child cough up blood . which of we want that for our child ? we need to act . it be deeply concern — and that be before we even get into the notion of young people who have never previously smoke use disposable vape and then graduate on to smoke cigarette . we know that be an issue . the producer of vape would have we believe they be intend to rectify and remedy that very problem , but it turn out to be the opposite that happen . the World Health Organisation have express significant concern about that , state that child who use such product be three time more likely to use tobacco product in the future . if the Minister be look for evidence , that be the kind of statistic he ought to bear in mind . huge profit be be make on the back of all those sale of vape to child . big business be be do here , but it be not always be do by the rule . the most popular brand for child be Elfbar , but in July an Observer investigation find that Elfbar have flout the rule to promote its product to young people in the UK . advertising video and promotion on TikTok , for instance , be feel to be of concern . some of those video attract hundred of thousand of view , on a platform that be use by three quarter of 16 and 17 - year - old . we have already hear about child ' s doctor call for a complete ban on disposable vape . the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) , who be herself a child ' s doctor , have speak out about that . if we will not listen to the view of child ' s doctor about the impact of vape on child ' s health , who will we listen to ? I be hearten that Humza Yousaf , our First Minister , say that a ban on disposable vape be under consideration , and by the incredible hard work be do by the campaign group ASH , which absolutely deserve our thank . I also thank the organiser of the TRNSMT festival , which take place in Glasgow last weekend , because they do not permit disposable vape there , and I absolutely applaud they for that . less positively , however , I can not thank the administration of East Renfrewshire Council , which be where I live . the motion , which I think be a good one , include a passage about work with council , and that be absolutely right . of the 32 council in Scotland , 28 support motion call for a ban on disposable vape . regrettably , East Renfrewshire Council be not one of they . it do not support the ban , seemingly because a ban be support by the SNP . I be really unimpressed by that . it be a poor show from that Labour Administration and their conservative enabler that they could not bring themselves in step with the whole of the rest of the country and , I suspect , with the member who be present in the debate . that seem somewhat ironic give the motion that be before the House . I hope that they will reflect on that and change their mind , and that we will get a full set of council to support the ban — although the number so far be pretty impressive . I hope that the Scottish Government come to the conclusion that these thing be too dangerous and damaging , although I be grateful for their sterling work so far . I hope that the UK Government will listen to what be be say to they . like my hon . friend the Member for Angus ( Dave Doogan ) , I be not entirely convinced that a huge degree of listening be go on , but I hope that I be wrong about that and that we will hear about a very serious focus on the matter . the industry will not take the step that be need ; politician need to do that . disposable vape be a danger to the environment and to our young people . it be high time that we take they off the shelf . I call the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee . as the Chair of say Committee , I be very conscious of the importance of these issue , and I be pleased to see they debate in the House . I welcome the debate , but anywhere I have see this issue debate , include in my cross - party Select Committee — many of its member be here — I do not see an awful lot of politic in it . I have a lot of time for the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Denton and Reddish ( Andrew Gwynne ) , but I think that he be uncharacteristically partisan in his remark — a Labour Government this and a Tory Government that . I think that that be misplace , but maybe that ' s just I . our Committee hear from the chief medical officer back in February at the start of our major inquiry on prevention . Professor Whitty highlight then what he call " an appalling situation " whereby vaping , which he describe as " an addictive product with … unknown consequence for develop mind " , be be market to child . I absolutely agree with he that that be totally unacceptable and out of control . as a parent of secondary school - age child , I see , hear and read letter home about the subject in a way that I never imagine I would only a couple of year ago , let alone when I start in this House 13 year ago . Professor Whitty note that " rate of vaping have double in the last couple of year among child " , which be consistent with what we be all hear as constituency mp . that situation can not be allow to continue , which be why I agree with the part of the Opposition ' s motion that call for plain packaging for vaping . the record will show that I most certainly do not vote against new clause 4 to the Health and Care Act , table by the hon . member for City of Durham ( Mary Kelly Foy ) , in November 2021 . I support that part of the motion — it be consistent and in line with what happen for cigarette . I do not think anybody would argue that we should go back to the day of the Marlboro Man and brand on cigarette packet , so I urge my hon . friend the Minister to take that point away . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for give way as he be get into the meat of his speech . do he share my concern about the impact that advertising on sport kit could have on any attempt to bring down the number of child vape ? yes , I do . I suspect that point may be raise later in the debate by one of my fellow Committee member , if she catch your eye , Mr Deputy Speaker . the Blackburn Rovers issue have be raise , and it be not a historical sport deal , either : some may think that it be something that happen last season , but they have renew it for the new season , which in my opinion be the opposite of " totally wicked " . I have young child who use that expression , and I can see why that would be attractive to a company wish for Blackburn Rovers to carry its advertising on their shirt — I can only think that be the company ' s motivation . I would ask Blackburn Rovers to look themselves in the mirror about that deal as much as the company that be do the advertising , because it take two to tango . yes , I be concerned about that . a couple of week ago , the Health Committee hold one of our topical oral evidence session on youth vaping . we do so because we be very concerned about increase medium report of child take up vaping , as well as what we be hear in the House and from our own constituent . during that evidence session , we hear from representative from the health policy world and the medical and education sector about the impact of the rise trend in child vaping . as be mention by the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Denton and Reddish , we hear directly from a headteacher from the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) — a fellow Committee member — about the disruption that vaping be cause in her school . she do indeed talk about the impact on education of student vape in the toilet and set off the fire alarm . we hear about the cost associate with put heat sensor on top of fire alarm sensor — teacher have get enough to be do ! we hear about the disruption , which have an impact on education . during exam season recently , there be example of exam be impact by alarm be set off . as the headteacher tell we , " I become really concerned about interruption to the exam season , so I have to change the smoke sensor to heat sensor really quickly to prevent we be in and out while student be sit gcse and a - level . " that beggar belief . young people have suffer enough in the past few year , their education have be disrupt enough , and now this — an epidemic of vape that we be allow to happen . I raise the same point with the child ' s doctor who give evidence to the Select Committee . the issue of toilete in school have wide impact than just the disruption of education : child do not want to use the toilet , because they do not want to walk into an environment where people be vape . they be worried about that , so toilet have become off - limit place . there be a much wide issue around toilete in school and school closing toilet . there be a very good charity call ERIC that work in the area of child ' s bowel and bladder health , and without get into too much detail , there be an impact on the retentiveness of child who do not use the toilet when they be at school . that can have serious medical implication , so once again , it beggar belief that we find ourselves in this situation because of vaping . in my opinion , the industry have not go anywhere near far enough in ensure that its product do not appeal to the young demographic , and it be disingenuous for it to claim otherwise . shop be able to display wide range of vape in colourful , flavour variety and in location that do not usually sell similar product : for example , we hear about vape be sell in chicken shop and pound shop . that be in sharp contrast to tobacco product , which must be lock away and package in standardised plain packaging contain health warning . evidence give to we by ASH from its survey show that flavour be a reason but not the main reason why young people who have never smoke start vape . the most common reason for try vaping among young never smoker be " just to give it a try " , at 54 % , follow by " other people use they so I join in " , at 18 % , and then there be " I like the flavour " , at just 12 % . it be worth put that statistic on the record , because there be a bit of a debate early between those on the front Benches about flavour . I have a few other point . vape be an age - control product ; it be not legal for people under the age of 18 to buy they . there be a number of way that young people obtain vape anyway — for example , through the lack of age verification in shop or by buy they from other seller who be often old teenager who buy in bulk to sell they on , sometimes in school setting . I know school take a very tough line on that , and rightly so , but teacher have well thing to do than play trading standard officer on campus . we be particularly concerned in the Select Committee about online ordering , which be an area I think would benefit from more Government attention in order to avoid the law be circumvent . overall , there be a need for much well enforcement of the law on not sell the product to under - 18 . it be crucial that trading standard officer tackle non - compliant vendor , and of course be resource to do so . I know the Minister be seize of that , and he rightly put that in his recent tobacco plan . I say tobacco plan , but I mean the tobacco strategy ; as someone who have write a tobacco control plan , I be careful about use that word . price be another important issue , particularly the price of disposable vape , as other have mention . they be much cheap than tobacco product — much cheap — in part because they be not subject to the same level of excise duty . I understand that that be clearly not a matter for the Minister on the Front Bench , but maybe he could take that up with his Treasury colleague . ASH tell we that there be evidence that child be highly price - sensitive when it come to buy these product , and that add an excise charge of £ 5 on the battery , which be what we have often hear about , would act as a significant deterrent . there be a lot of young people in the Gallery , and I wonder what they be think listen to this debate . I would urge right hon . and hon . member to talk to young people , as I be sure we all do , either in their own home or in the school in our constituency , and to ask they their motivation for vaping and what story they know about vape , because their story be interesting . I drop into a vape shop in my constituency just the other day . I make a full disclosure : I tell they who I be and that I chair the Health and Social Care Committee . high street vape shop be often very responsible in what they do , and this shop be very clear about how it approach young people who come in . it tell I about a product that basically look like a bag of Skittles — other nice sweet be available . skittle take the producer to court and the producer then have to withdraw that product . it do not take a genius to understand why someone might want to brand a vape to look like a bag of Skittles . pop into vape shop and talk to they about how they do their business be time well spend on a constituency Friday . to conclude , I have so many serious concern about disposable vape and the way they be market to child . however , I have to say that I do not support a total ban because , as ASH tell the Select Committee in evidence , they can play an important part in help people to quit smoking . we have to be very careful about a broad - brush ban , but the Government need to step forward even more than they already have , and this debate may help the Minister to form his view . I know he be personally very seized of this issue ; he have speak to I about it on a number of occasion . the Government need to stay on this issue as an urgent case . a number of friend who also have child at secondary school have ask I , " what be the Government do about this ? " because they know what I do . the concern out there in parent land be grow by the day , and we parent be concern — very concerned — about this . we on the Select Committee be also very concerned about it , and we will be write to the Minister and the Secretary of State off the back of our session a couple of week ago to set out some of our concern and some of the recommendation we may make . I hope the Government will take that on board , and come back to we promptly as part of the ongoing consultation the Minister have tell we about . I agree with some of the intervention that have be make . the Khan review be commission by the Government and it be a robust piece of work contain with lot of evidence . there be an awful lot to be seize of . I appreciate that it be challenge to get grid slot and get stuff through no . 10 , but the Prime Minister have personally identify himself with this issue and be concerned about it . I therefore say to the Minister that in that regard he would be push at an open door if he bang on a black door with a no . 10 on it . I be thankful that those on the Labour Front Bench choose this important topic for debate . we have a policy for and a commitment to a smoke - free future , but it be at risk . in a mere few year , we have pave the way for our child and grandchild to live healthy , fitter and long live . the hard work of doctor , nurse , charity , researcher and activist mean that we be on the edge of create a future free from the shackle of smoking . that hard work be in serious jeopardy . smoking still claim the undesirable title of the lead cause of preventable death in the UK , and at current level , more than half of Britain ' s 6 . 6 million smoker will die prematurely . those be horrify figure , and when a number of people equivalent to the entire population of Wales will die from smoking , it be clear that we be not move fast , hard or strongly enough on our smoke - free by 2030 commitment . as many ex - smoker will know , there be no silver bullet in the fight against smoking . our strategy must accommodate an integrated approach that understand that target social support work with Government regulation — an approach that combine powerful new tool to help current smoker quit , while prevent child from ever form this terrible habit . vaping have its place . it be a tool , but it be only one of they , in the fight to end smoking . too much focus on vaping as the answer to cut smoking risk raise its profile too high , and ultimately attract more young people . help current smoker to quit can be only one aspect of our approach . without further action to encourage people never to start smoke in the first place , Britain will miss its smoke - free 2030 target by seven year , with the poor area miss that target by at least 14 year . when tobacco kill someone in the UK every five minute , we do not have 14 year to act , never mind 21 . I therefore welcome update on the important work of crack down on the illicit tobacco trade , and congratulate enforcement agency on seize £ 7 million - worth of illegal tobacco product . we know there be a strong link between illegal sale and under - age smoking , so tackle the problem at its source be by far the good approach . I be disappoint by the lack of Government plan to tackle the alarming growth in vaping among child . the introduction of vaping product have undoubtedly dramatically improve people ' s chance of quit smoking , but the appeal of these product to child be a serious concern . community such as mine in Ealing , Southall want and need strengthen trading standard . they want to see regulator able to impose the fine that his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs can use . that be a miss opportunity early this year ; trading standard can only pass evidence to HMRC . by not bring through that important reform , the Government be provide safe harbour for criminal gang and organised crime to generate cash . this illegal and unregulated trade be of serious concern to I , but when the situation demand immediate action , the Government announce a slow consultation . we already have comparable evidence from tobacco product about packaging , flavouring and price point . we know that the brand , flavour and price be target at child . when the uptake of vaping among non - smoker be so high , it be baffle that the Government have not act to make vaping product follow the same trading standard and rule as tobacco . if we be serious about tackle the uptake of vaping by non - smoker , we have to act to regulate and police vaping as we do other tobacco product . I will briefly go a little off - topic , although the issue be relevant . in community such as mine , it be not just vape that be target at child . Paan be a serious issue . it be a chew tobacco product , often sell in corner shop , with nut , seed and sweet mix in for flavour , and it can be pick up for penny a portion . because of that and betel , there be terrible statistic on the rate of oral cancer in asian community , and anything that reduce those rate will save life . yes , we need vape to help people quit , but only as part of a risk - reduction strategy ; make vape for child , market they at child and sell they to child — no . it be an honour to follow the hon . member for Ealing , Southall ( Mr Sharma ) and to be able to speak in this debate . may I first pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) , who have do so much work on this issue ? she be a paediatrician and , frankly , we should always turn to she when look for advice on vaping . I also pay tribute to a previous Member of this House , Jim Fitzpatrick , who be the Member for Poplar and Limehouse . he have now retire to my constituency — a blessing , although perhaps not an additional vote at the next election . his wife be a cardiologist , and she be talk to I about vaping and the fact that we simply do not know what the health implication might be 20 or 30 year hence . however , it would be an act of gross hypocrisy for I not to confess to like the odd puff on a vape , and I regard it as an important tool for the cessation of smoking . we need to be careful when we start discuss thing such as flavour . the average vape stick have the most horrific , synthetic , disgusting flavour . they do not taste like strawberry ice , blue raspberry or anything else . they taste weird , but they do not taste as weird as the tobacco - flavour one . when I first come to this House — a long time ago now — it be when the tobacco company be first marketing vaping . the product be almost invariably tobacco - flavour and taste disgusting , if we be be brutally honest . I do not know how good to describe they , but they be clunky in design . they be big and chunky and do not fit easily in the pocket . that be where the big difference have come — with cheap , slimline vape stick , which be much more pocketable and much cheap . I really think that price be a two - edge sword . for those look to stop smoke , there be the sheer fact that vape disposable bar in particular , which be so cheap and easily obtainable , be really cost - effective . we therefore need to be a little careful and nuance in look at how we go about price they effectively . it be important that they still be a cost - effective route into smoking cessation , but equally — I make this point to the Minister — we must do something about what I refer to as promotional selling . it be simply not allow to do two - for - one deal on packet of cigarette or any other tobacco product — I hasten to add that two - for - one deal be not allow on thing such as baby formula , either — but they be allow on vape stick . I know from experience that the village shop sell three Elfbars for £ 12 , make they £ 4 each , so three kid can easily club together and get a product that be incredibly cheap . I think the hon . member for East Renfrewshire ( Kirsten Oswald ) refer to the Elfbar as the most popular and one of the most widely accessible vape stick . I take real offence to the Elfbar name , because I think it sound somewhat like " health bar " , if not pronounce in quite the same way that I would . it strike I that the motion do not address myriad issue . it do not address the naming or pricing of these product . there need to be some good and effective research on flavour . I be happy to say that these thing should be in plain packaging , and they should not be brightly coloured . I do not see what be wrong with a slimline black vape stick — or olive green , which we know have be so effective in the plain packaging of cigarette . tomorrow , I will meet the two headteacher of Romsey School and Mountbatten School . a problem in my constituency be the ease with which child can obtain vape stick , include — we have hear reference to this — doctored vape stick . we do not know what be in they . I think my neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Winchester ( Steve Brine ) , comment on the letter home from school . at the start of the Whitsun half - term week , the two headteacher write a letter to parent explain that child from both school have be hospitalise because of vape stick and , to be frank , nobody know what be in they . one child be suffer from seizure , and they be have an impact on heart rate . those be really serious health implication that be affect child . my hon . friend mention toileting , and I will go there , too — nobody will want to listen to this conversation , but it be important . way back in 1983 , the most terrifying place I ever have to go be the girl ' loo in the main block of Romsey School , where the air be thick with cigarette smoke and hairspray — a unique combination that many male member of the House will have have no experience of . it be disgusting . we now have a situation where Romsey School have have to introduce alarm because — guess what ? — through vaping , it be back , but we can not smell it . my mother have the nose of a bloodhound , and if I have have a single cigarette some hour previously , she would sniff it the second I be in the house . if my daughter walk in today , have consume God know how many vape stick , I have no idea that she have do so . the same , of course , be true for teacher , who simply will not know from sniff child — there be probably all sort of safeguard rule why they do not go around sniff child — whether they have be vape in the girl ' loo . I suspect that the boy ' loo be also a hotbed of it . this have massive health implication for child . I remember how , at 11 year old , I would not go to the loo all day because the main block loo be so scary . we do not want to go back to that . we need our child to be able to go to the loo safely and with confidence , and part of that be about make sure that the loo be a safe environment and free of vape . I pay tribute to my constituent Pete Sandhu , who have develop and indeed market a vape alarm , but they be still in the region of £ 300 to £ 400 per alarm . I gather that they compare well with an american brand , which be about £ 1 , 200 per alarm , but our school simply can not afford to be instal such equipment to ensure that pupil be safe while go to the loo . in addition , I want to mention the level of nicotine in vape stick and the nicotine hit . I can talk from experience . the stark reality be that someone will get a far more intense nicotine hit from a disposable vape stick than from a cigarette . that be get child addict very quickly . I speak in defence and support of the Minister ; he be right to do a great deal more work on this issue , which we need to be evidence - base . as the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee say , child be very price - sensitive , but I be disappointed to see the issue of price not include in this motion . clearly , the DHSC need to have that conversation with the Treasury . we need the pricing to be right so that vaping remain affordable for those of we want to quit smoking , but be too expensive for those price - sensitive child to afford . the place where vape can be buy , such as hairdresser , beautician and tanning salon , be inappropriate . we need a robust licensing regime that do not put those product on the end of supermarket shelf , as I see in my local morrison . God bless Waitrose — Leckford , the home of the waitrose estate , be in my constituency . it be a market leader in take the right and principled stand . in the near morrison to my constituency — it be not actually in it — vape stick be on the promotional end of supermarket shelf . Vape company will have pay more to be in that prime location . as Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee , hon . member will expect I to make some comment at the end of my contribution — I will not drone on for too much long — about gender . there have long be a real problem with girl still take up smoke more than their male counterpart . some of the packaging and design of Elfbars be gendere — there be an awful lot of pink out there . it be important that any sort of consultation bear in mind that there may be a more target marketing strategy towards young woman than young man . please could the Minister bear that in mind ? this be such an important debate and I commend the Opposition for have select it . I be inclined to agree with my hon . friend the Member for Winchester , but I hope the shadow Minister will take my comment in the spirit in which they be intend . I want the idea to be do well , not just trash . it be an important step , but there be an awful lot more work to do than just ban advertising . that be too simplistic . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for Romsey and Southampton North ( Caroline Nokes ) , who make such a common - sense and honest contribution . I think everyone appreciate it . colleague may know that I be a strong advocate for vaping as a way for adult to quit smoking . I be also a vice - chair of the all - party parliamentary group for vaping , so I have a lot of experience of speak directly with the industry . much of what I say today come from what the industry itself be feel and how it see the problem of child vape . I have see so many friend , and my late husband , make the switch from be heavy smoker to use — I stress this point — safe vaping product . every minute , someone be admit to hospital due to smoking . someone die from a smoking - relate death every eight minute . pertinent to this debate remain the fact that , while not risk - free , vaping be 95 % safe than smoke . More than 6 . 6 million adult smoker in this country have not be able to quit smoking or make the change to vaping . however , I would never advocate that someone who do not smoke or have never try to smoke take up vaping . that be not the way forward . vaping must be a way to quit smoking . like my colleague , I support the motion . it be unequivocal that under - 18 should not use or have any access to vape product . however , despite the Government ' s announcement to tackle youth vaping , it remain a major concern . far more need to be do to address it , and as we have hear , the trend be at epidemic level . there be nothing more heartbreaking than walk up the street or be on public transport and see very young people at a bus stop or gather on the street with a vape in their hand . it sadden I , it really do . measure be need specifically to target rogue manufacturer and retailer . ultimately , no vape should appeal to a minor . trading standard really need the resource and the power to enforce the law . a lot of what I be say be also what the industry be tell I it support , whether it be the vaping industry or even tobacco firm . I know many people really do not want to hear anything from tobacco firm , but in relation to vape we should listen to some of the thing the industry itself be suggest . one of the most effective measure to limit youth access to vape be surely enforce strict age verification across all retail channel , include online platform . retailer be require by law to operate age verification system to prevent the sale of vape product to anyone under 18 , but some retailer , we know , do not enforce those regulation effectively . online retailer must also have a stringent age verification process in place to prevent under - 18 access vape product . we know that retailer can get no id no sale ! and challenge 25 resource . they should make use of those resource if it help they to challenge under - age sale . the advertising and promotion of vape product be tightly regulate in the UK . however , some irresponsible online and social medium marketing can and inevitably do still reach young people , with the result we be now see . the Government must strengthen online and social medium regulation . no e - cigarette and e - liquid , include product , packaging and marketing communication , should ever appeal to a child . we could do something about imagery , flavour name and anything else that relate to the world of child and young people , such as comic icon , cartoon character or sweet . that must be clamp down on . at a minimum , all e - cigarette packaging could be inspect as part of the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency ' s notification process before a product can be place on the market . law enforcement mechanism should also be reinforce , with fine and penalty reflect the seriousness of the offence . this could be achieve by align fine with those relate to tobacco product . his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs have recently be give the ability to issue on - the - spot fine of up to £ 10 , 000 . that should be extend to trading standard . the UK Vaping Industry Association support all those measure . recently , John Dunne , the director general of the UKVIA , appear before the Health and Social Care Committee . he stress that the Government should take " extreme action " to discourage anyone from sell to child . he reinforce the call for fine of £ 10 , 000 per instance , a licensing scheme for vape retailer , robust age verification , and great power to check packaging and product design for potentially child - appeal design . I be very grateful to the hon . Lady for give way . my apology , Mr Deputy Speaker , for arrive midway through the debate . I be speak at the all - party parliamentary group on suicide and self - harm prevention . the hon . Lady be make an impassioned speech . on limit access to young people , when adult go to the counter to buy tobacco product they be behind black and grey metal cabinet . they be not brightly coloured and so on . would that not be a starting point ? we could get vape product hide behind those black and metallic cupboard , so they be not , as my right hon . friend the Member for Romsey and Southampton North ( Caroline Nokes ) say , all glossy and appeal at the checkout ? would that not be a starting point ? I do think it would . I also think vape product be currently an attraction for shopkeeper to get people into their shop , especially young people — a bit like when alcopop be put on the front shelf . it be brilliant idea and one I hope the Minister will hear . I wish I have think of it . John Dunne also urge the Government to look at the new irish law , whereby retailer convict of sell to child can be jail . should we go that far ? since enter the UK in 2021 , disposable vape have come to dominate the market , with 70 % of disposable vape sale generate by new user . child be attract by their brand , bright colour and sweet flavour . the late figure from the Office for Health Improvement and Disparities show that in England youth vaping have double , from 4 % to 8 . 6 % . accord to the late figure highlight by the Chartered Trading Standards Institute , more than 138 million disposable vape be sell every year , and more than one in three product be potentially non - compliant , which mean that more than 45 million non - compliant product be be sell each year . figure have also reveal that in the last six month of 2022 , 1 . 4 tonne of illegal vape be seize in , I be ashamed to say , the north - east of England alone . trading standard officer across the country be do their good to combat this tidal wave of non - compliant vape . in March 2002 , the tobacco company JTI UK commission test on a variety of popular disposable vape in the UK , and discover that 25 out of 28 product be not legally compliant as they all exceed the e - liquid volume and nicotine strength limit mandate by law . although the figure be stark , I do not advocate ban disposable vape , but regulation must be tighten . for some people on low income , disposable vape be an affordable way to kick the smoking habit . we do not want to send a message that vaping be bad , because we want some of those 6 . 6 million people to stop smoke by switch to vaping . despite the Government announce measure to tackle youth vaping , it be still a major problem and much more need to be do to combat it . the Government must ensure that regulation be effective in target rogue vape producer and retailer , and not the element of the vaping industry that be try to sell responsibly to adult . we have to make sure that vaping remain accessible by adult who be try to stop smoke . the industry have produce a set of proposal on amend the Tobacco and Related Products Regulations 2016 to ensure that all nicotine and non - nicotine e - liquid be regulate in the same way , and that all e - cigarette and e - liquid , include their product packaging and marketing communication , do not appeal to minor , by prohibit the imagery we have hear about today . to complement that , all e - cigarette packaging should be inspect as part of the MHRA notification process before product can be put on the market . law enforcement mechanism should be reinforce with the fine and penalty that have be suggest , include the £ 10 , 000 fine , and the power to impose penalty should be extend to trading standard . that would be a practical way for they to help tackle this problem . we all know that trading standard need more resource than the Government have promise , give the sheer scale and scope of their work and the specific problem of youth vaping . the Government have a clear opportunity to address youth vape with its recent consultation . clear step must be take to ensure that only safe and responsible vape be available on the market , and that sufficient enforcement measure be in place to ensure that child be not target . it be the job of Government , the industry and enforcement agency to work together to create a regulatory framework that acknowledge the important role vape play in provide support for adult smoker to quit and prevent their appealing and be accessible to under - 18 . the time for action be now . the Minister and the rest of the Government must heed today ' s debate . if I may , I would like to ask member to visualise the follow scenario . the world be emerge from a period of economic uncertainty and there be a war in Europe . young people be be give product that contain nicotine and become addict to nicotine . unbeknown to they , the product be do irreversible damage to their young body , create ill health and , indeed , kill more of they than the war in which they be fight . there be not only the addiction to nicotine but lung cancer , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and other condition that have blight so many life and take too many love one far too early . the time that I just describe be the time that my father experience . that be my dad ' s experience during the second world war . he be give cigarette as part of his ration as a radar operator in the RAF serve in India and Burma . through the magical world of time travel , colleague be now in the 21st century , 80 year on in 2023 , look at the same type of young person , age 18 and young , and what do we find ? the world be struggle with economic uncertainty and there be a war in Europe . yet again , we find that many young people be be give free sample of product that contain nicotine — vaping product . vape be cause addiction to nicotine , and I dread to think of the other detrimental impact on young people ' s health . we have not learn the lesson of 80 year ago . vape should not be use as a recreational product or , as I describe they yesterday , as confectionery . vape should only ever be use as an aid to stop smoke . I remind the House that it be illegal to sell cigarette to under - 18 . as I just indicate , vape be an aid to quit smoking for adult and should never be see in the hand of child , yet that be not the case . like other , time and again I see child — and yes , they be child — with a variety of multicoloure vape in their hand as they leave school at the end of the day . they be leave school that do not have sixth form , so they be definitely not 18 . legally , they should not be able to access vape , yet they can and regularly do . what be go wrong ? why have vape become a fashionable accessory that contain what I believe to be one of the most addictive and dangerous substance know to man ? I would now like member to visualise their high street . we may have lose many of our corner shop and the traditional tobacconist with pack and pack of cigarette stack up behind the counter and , as we have hear , where they do still exist they be heavily regulate , with cigarette hide behind screen and in plain packaging , yet they have be replace with brightly light shop stack full of multicoloure vaping product . the product placement and design be second to none , with modern interior and the minimalistic look that be so attractive to youngster . it be like candy to the eye of young people as they walk past on their way to school . what do this situation say about we ? how have we allow this to happen again ? the tobacco industry , starve of its traditional revenue , be now seek new victim by plough billion of pound into the vaping industry , and it be do that without clear , long - term scientific evidence of what vaping be do to the young people who have be influence by the tobacco industry ' s sleek marketing . this must stop , and it must stop now . we can not allow vaping to become the new cigarette . far too many of we have see the consequence of smoking and we must not allow history to repeat itself . for that reason , I have five request of my hon . friend the Minister . first , we should update both the Standardised Packaging of Tobacco Products Regulations 2015 and the Tobacco Advertising and Promotion ( Brandsharing ) Regulations 2004 to cover vaping product . secondly , we should amend the Tobacco Products and Nicotine Inhaling Products ( Amendment ) ( EU Exit ) Regulations 2020 to prohibit the sale of flavour vaping liquid . thirdly , will my hon . friend look carefully at the case for outlaw the sale of tobacco and vaping product within a define radius of school ? fourthly , we should ensure that the ban on the sale of vape product to those under the age of 18 be properly and rigorously enforce by trading standard . finally , I urge my right hon . friend the Chancellor to specifically target vaping product in his next Budget statement , to disincentivise the recreational habit through the tax system . only then can we truly claim to be a world leader in protect the health of our nation . I declare my interest as a vice - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on smoking and health . I thank the Labour Front Bench for choose this topic as their second debate on their Opposition day today . I welcome the motion , which give a clear indication that the shadow Front Bench and the next Labour Government take this issue seriously . give labour ' s polling right now , I think this will be policy next year , if not before . I have repeatedly make clear my concern about the need to tackle youth vaping . in 2021 , as we have hear , I table amendment to the Health and Social Care Bill to standardise the packaging of vape . these amendment would have remove child - friendly branding and prohibit free distribution — in other word , free sample — to child . as Members may recall , the amendment have strong cross - party support . however , the Government do not adopt my amendment . in fact , they vote against they , and I be still in the dark as to why . perhaps the Minister might explain in wind up . nevertheless , the Government must take forward these measure without further delay , because market addictive substance to child be unethical . although it be vital to strengthen regulation on vaping , we must not forget that smoking still remain a far great risk . smoking be kill too many of our love one . there have be 117 , 000 smoking - relate death in the north - east since the turn of the millennium . this be a public health emergency , and the Government be dither yet again . we have wait since 2017 for the promise update to the tobacco control plan . we hear , just a few week ago , minister ' proposal for achieve their smoke - free 2030 ambition . they will not achieve it because their proposal do not go far enough and their action be not bold enough . as we have hear , the Khan review find that we will miss the target by at least seven year without bold action . in the poor area of the country , the target will not be reach until 2044 . we must encourage as many smoker as possible to quit their use of cigarette , the most lethal consumer product , by any mean that suit they , include the use of nicotine vape . the Association of Directors of Public Health North East have make its position on vape very clear , reassure both the public and healthcare professional that vaping pose only a fraction of the risk of smoking while , at the same time , state clearly that vape should not be accessible or appeal to young people . three quarter of adult in Great Britain support measure to prohibit vape that appeal to child and the promotion of vape in shop , which be currently legal . we have a lot of evidence to support the fact that vape play a very important role in help adult smoker to quit , but they should never be market towards child . as I mention early , market an addictive substance to child be unethical . let we remember that nicotine carry health risk . vaping may be preferable to tobacco as a cessation aid , but we have to remain vigilant to the risk to oral and respiratory health . underage vaping have increase by 50 % over the past three year , and it be happen under the Government ' s watch . they have have several opportunity to act : I table amendment to the Health and Social Care Bill ; the Khan review be base on research and evidence ; and ASH , Fresh , Cancer Research UK and other have provide evidence . there be no excuse for this delay . the first duty of a Government be to protect their citizen ; minister be fail in their duty to our young people . since Conservative Members vote down Labour ' s amendment to tackle youth vaping , countless child have no doubt fallen victim to the disgraceful and unethical marketing of vape allow by this Government . how many more child must become addicted to nicotine before minister finally take action ? I welcome this debate on a hugely important issue that give rise to related concern . recent research show that 24 % of child have use a vape and 11 % of secondary school pupil would describe themselves as regular vape user . the datum that have be disclose in today ' s article in the Northern Echo reveal that nearly 100 , 000 child in the north - east have try vape . those figure should be of great concern to all of we . first , I commend my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) for the amazing work she have do on this issue . she be my long friend in politic and I wholeheartedly support her ten - minute rule Bill to prohibit the sale of disposable e - cigarette . she be right in seek to end the problem cause by these product . if they be simply use to wean smoker off cigarette , they would be do their job , but we know from the debate that they be do far more harm than that . one key point that she have raise be that although vaping manufacturer often insist that their product be intend for adult only , they design their product with description , colouring and flavouring that , as we have hear , appeal to a far more impressionable audience . one of my big concern be that we simply do not know the long - term effect of vaping , as e - cigarette be very new . let we not forget that there once be a time when cigarette be consider safe . we know that e - cigarette or vape contain carcinogen , cytotoxin and genotoxin . a recent freedom of information request find that vaping - relate hospital admission almost double last year , with 32 of those case involve child . the simple fact be that we do not know how bad the problem be . I know that child ' s vaping be a serious concern in my constituency , where parent be increasingly worried that child be be target by brand , with social pressure result in more child become addict . at the beginning of this year , Darlington Borough Council begin a crackdown on the trade of illegal tobacco and vape product . it begin under the previous conservative administration in Darlington and I hope that its work will continue under the new Labour and Liberal Democrat administration . as a result of that crackdown , a huge amount of counterfeit tobacco and fake vape product be seize , and numerous premise have either be close down or be under further investigation . sadly , this be like a case of whack - a - mole : one trader be stop and another two replace they . whether we be talk about underage sale or child exploitation , use vape as a reward , or use child as courier , we should be acutely aware of the risk to young people in our community from those who would engage in such criminal activity . there be a concern that criminal have now latch on to this market of illicit product to undercut legitimate good , with a network of organise criminal operate in the background to feed the vaping issue . I wish to highlight to the House the issue raise by my right hon . friend the Member for Romsey and Southampton North ( Caroline Nokes ) about the location of vape product in Southampton . in conversation with I , my hon . friend the Member for Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) highlight concern raise in his community about the siting of vape in a supermarket . he launch a campaign in his constituency to have those relocate . he tell I that it be well meet by the supermarket , so there be perhaps a lesson for we all to raise that issue in our respective local community supermarket . local trading standard team , such as those in Darlington , rely on local information and intelligence to tackle the issue of purchase of illegal and fake product . I urge everybody to encourage those in their community to report such issue to trading standard department . we must stop child from vape . my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ' s proposal to ban disposable electronic cigarette be excellent , and I hope that her Bill be successful . my hon . friend be make a powerful speech articulate the risk of vape in term of the public health of our young people and the environmental concern with their disposal , but we be also see increase issue with animal . when I be out walk my young dog , Poppy , the other day , she go into the undergrowth and come out with a bright pink , melon - flavour disposable vape . she be just about to crunch it and swallow it , when I take it out of her mouth . I shudder to think what would have happen if she have crunch and swallow it , because it be a foreign body , contain a battery and toxic compound . do my hon . friend agree with I that we just do not know the risk to people , the environment and animal ? as an expert on animal , my hon . friend will be acutely aware of the risk to animal of ingest a battery . we know there be concern about the disposal of vape product . he lead I to recall the campaign lead by my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Jo Gideon ) on button battery ; this debate highlight similar issue . I believe that the time have come for we to consider license the retail sale of tobacco product as a means of tackle those trader engage in the sale of illegal , fake and contraband tobacco and nicotine product . we know such sale fuel organise crime gang , so licensing be another way of cut off that money supply . finally , I ask the Government to consider a cross - departmental strategy , across the Department of Health and Social Care , the Home Office , Ministry of Justice and the Department for Education , and work with local authority , to ensure that we have the right legislation in place to tackle these challenge , include the correct disposal and recycling of all the paraphernalia . I thank my hon . friend on the Front Bench for choose this important topic for debate . I recognise that encourage the use of e - cigarette be a vital part of the Government ' s strategy for a smokefree 2030 . I be a member of the Health and Social Care Committee , and two week ago I listen to the expert panel and hear some of their disturbing evidence . it be worry that the risk associate with vaping be still unclear , as long - term study do not exist . I be a nurse for 25 year . believe I , there be no one who want to support effective public health measure as passionately as I do , but I be concerned . it be illegal to sell vape contain nicotine to anyone under the age of 18 , but , in 2021 , over 20 % of child age 11 to 15 have try vape . clearly , something be not work . at the Health and Social Care Committee , I ask the panel about ban vape stick , but be strike by the answer that ban they would drive they underground , which worry I . one secondary school in my constituency tell I : " vaping have massively increase with child — they be too easy to obtain and the negative consequence be not fully appreciate by the child . vape be also be use as a method of supply hard drug , which be a wide issue across our estate . " forty child and young people be admit to hospital in England last year owe to vaping - relate disorder . we have all see report about some of the terrible symptom that they have experience , from seizure and shortness of breath , to hypertension and high blood pressure . the Khan review , publish last year , recommend that the government do everything they possibly can to prevent child and young people from vape . if Conservative member be really commit to do everything they possibly can , they could start by fix the mess that they have create in the NHS and attempt to make new record , rather than those they be currently achieve for the long waiting list , the high vacancy and the most disruptive delay . doctor and nurse be work incredibly hard , but there be just not enough of they . vital space in hospital bed across the country be be take up by people who can not access mental health or social care service and so can not be discharge . the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health warn that youth vaping be become an epidemic and that the number of child admit to hospital as a result of vaping have almost quadruple in two year . our NHS can not afford for the Government not to take this issue seriously . Madam Deputy Speaker , I shall say this until I be blue in the face : public health be chronically underfunde and prevention be key . if we can not stop child vape once they have start , we need to make sure that they never start in the first place . the potential risk associate with vaping , especially for child live under a Conservative Government who be set on wreck our NHS , be just too great . we need a Government who will prioritise prevention and support the NHS to take this issue seriously before the problem escalate any far . I thank the Labour Front - Bench team for a great choice of debate today . I thank , too , all those member who have make nice comment about I today . I agree with the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Winchester ( Steve Brine ) , who say that it be a shame to see child ' s health be make a party political issue , because surely everybody in this House , from every party , want child ' s health to be as good as possible . in that vein I declare an interest as both a consultant paediatrician and a member of the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health . I be pleased to see the shadow Minister talk about Laranya Caslin , the headteacher of St George ' s Academy in Sleaford , who speak so eloquently at the Select Committee about her experience of child vape in her school . let I reflect on some of the thing that she say . she say that there be heavy peer pressure in school encourage child to vape . she say that vaping be see to be cool and that child have to vape to feel that they be part of the in - group . she also talk about how it have a high burden of addiction . she say that , sometimes , child would go out at break time to have a cigarette , or to share a cigarette with friend , but now they vape not just during break time but need to top up during lesson . that continual top - up be something that we see in Parliament , too . yesterday , while eat in the Tea Room , a Member of the House be vape at the table . it must be say that we do have quite a long session of vote yesterday . during voting , in the Labour Members ' cloakroom , a Member of the Opposition Front Bench be sit vape . we be see people top up anywhere and everywhere it would seem , and that be something that I would like to see stop . as many member have mention , the flavour and colour of vape be very child - friendly : there be even unicorn flavour , which I struggle to believe be direct at teenager , never mind adult . my 12 - year - old would not thank you for anything with a unicorn on , because that be very much for young child . indeed , we see in the Healthwatch survey that 11 % of 10 and 11 - year - old be already vape . that grow to 42 . 4 % of 16 to 17 - year - old , with a gradual increase during the teenage year . Laranya Caslin also tell we that flavour be important to the peer pressure on child to vape . she talk about how child would discuss , " have you try the cherry cola ? have you try the unicorn milkshake ? have you try the green gummy bear ? " it be the flavour that enable that discussion to take place among peer , which encourage child . I ask the industry representative , " why do you need these flavour ? why can ' t you make they basic mint flavour , no flavour at all , or tobacco flavour ? " he say that when people smoke they lose their sense of taste to an extent . indeed , the NHS website say that one of the benefit of stop smoking be that after 48 hour a sense of taste will start to return . what the industry have find , it tell I , be that if it have tobacco or plain flavour vape , people will move off smoking on to the vape , but when their tastebud return they will not like the vape anymore and will discontinue their vape use . that be of course what we want they to do , but it be perhaps not what the industry want they to do . make it cherry cola flavour , bubble gum flavour , or whatever flavour the person like to inhale mean that they will continue to be addict to that product and continue to use it . I encourage the Minister to consider that when she consider ban flavour , or which flavour should be allow to be use . the ten - minute rule Bill that I introduce on 8 February this year would have ban disposable . I understand that the Minister have challenge in define a disposable in a way that the industry , which have such a heavy financial interest in the product , can not get around and make the legislation weak quickly . I look for an update in how that be go , but 1 . 3 million be dispose of every week . we have hear already about the fire that they can cause , and the fact that most of they be not recycle . I understand that they be very difficult to recycle , because the nicotine salt leak into the plastic . it be not like a plastic water bottle , which can be easily recycle if it be dispose of properly . these vape can not be , because they become a hazardous waste , because the nicotine have leak into the plastic itself . the hon . Lady be make an excellent speech . do she agree that the whole way these thing be design seem as if it be to prevent they from be recycle ? they be impossible to take to bit . they contain , as she say , plastic , which be then infuse with other substance . there be lithium battery , and all manner of thing . how would one possibly go about recycle that properly ? I think that the answer be that one could not unless one be a specialist . the hon . Lady be right : these thing be incredibly difficult to recycle , and since 70 % of child use disposable vape , and they be the most attractive and cheap for child to use , it be increasingly important that we ensure that they be not available . the call to ban disposable have be back by a wide variety of people , include the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health , of which I be a member , the Children ' s Commissioner , and the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals . there be a widespread desire across all party , and across community , to see these product ban . the industry say at the Select Committee that a ban will drive the industry underground and make thing illicit , but as we hear from the hon . Lady early , that be already happen . there be already illicit vape . when a school in my constituency confiscate five vape and the police test they , they find antifreeze and all sort of product , include trichloroethylene , which be ban before I be bear . all those type of product be contain in vape already , so that cat be very much already out of the bag and should not dissuade we from get rid of these disposable product . we also hear on the Health and Social Care Committee about the health challenge . we hear that vape be 95 % safe than smoke . the industry continue to repeat that statistic . where do it come from ? how could anyone possibly quantify that ? it come from 2013 , when a group of people who be not specifically expert in tobacco control get together and have a discussion . they then publish a paper . let I read something that be publish in the Lancet at the time , which be more than 10 year ago . the editorial of the Lancet say : " but neither PHE nor McNeill and Hajek report the caveat that Nutt and colleague themselves emphasise in their paper . first , there be a ' lack of hard evidence for the harm of most product on most of the criterion ' . second , ' there be no formal criterion for the recruitment of the expert ' . in other word , the opinion of a small group of individual with no prespecified expertise in tobacco control be base on an almost total absence of evidence of harm . it be on this extraordinarily flimsy foundation that PHE base the major conclusion and message of its report . " the Lancet also note that " one of the author of the Nutt paper … report serve as a consultant to … an e - cigarette distributor " , and that another " report serve as a consultant to manufacturer of smoke cessation product . " in the Westminster Hall debate on 29 June I ask the Minister to look far into the veracity of the claim that vaping be 95 % safe , and whether , give that that study be 10 year ago , the modern evidence for that still stack up . I look to the Minister for an update on how they be get on with that , because we hear in the Health and Social Care Committee that there be significant health impact for child , with eight child hospitalise from St George ' s Academy in Sleaford alone . we also hear about child be frightened to go into toilet , as the Select Committee Chair say . some of those child be frightened to do so because they find that when they do , it trigger their asthma symptom . those be child who do not vape , but who have asthma and be frightened to go into the toilet because there be so much vaping vapour leave in the toilet by other child that it be trigger their asthma and make they unwell . some of these child be unable to go to the toilet all day , which lead they to have problem not only with asthma , but with urinary retention , which potentially leave they at risk of urinary infection and incontinence issue in later life . it be for that reason that Dr Stewart from the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health tell we that she support a ban on the use of vaping in public place . I would also like the Minister to look at the use of accessory . on Etsy . com today , under the category " girly smoking accessory " or " cute smoking accessory " , for £ 7 . 78 — within the pocket money range — one can buy a teddy bear vape stand . it be a tiny teddy bear that people can stand their vape in when they be not use it . will the Minister look at whether such item be suitable for sale , give that they be essentially there to attract child to this activity ? move on to advertising , we have a bizarre situation where Transport for London ban an advert for " Tony n ' Tina ' s wedding " that initially feature a picture of a three - tier wedding cake , because it would encourage people to eat fat , salt and sugar and that might drive the obesity crisis . that be on the tube , yet tfl bus have many advert for vaping , include one that appear to I personally to make vaping look cool and something to be aspire to . I think TfL ' s priority be all wrong . the London Bus Advertising group state , as part of the group ' s advertising to encourage people to put their advert on the bus , that 5 . 8 million people would see the bus per week . I would ask those on the shadow Front Bench to use their good office with the Labour Mayor of London to consider whether he can influence the chair of TfL to remove not just cake advert , but vape advert from place such as tube , bus and taxi , where they may be see by child . in the Minister ' s opening remark he talk about tobacco track and trace , and I wonder whether he be plan to bring in the same for vape . the other thing I want to talk about be taxation . other hon . member have talk about the price of disposable vape and how they be accessible with pocket money . very rarely come an opportunity for a Chancellor to bring in a tax that will promote the public ' s health , still make vaping cheap than smoke , protect our child ' s health and be relatively popular , yet raise revenue . while we wait to ban the disposable version , I encourage the Chancellor to consider add at the next fiscal event perhaps £ 5 to the price of a vape , to move they out of the pocket money range . in summary , the Minister need to look at a whole range of measure to challenge child ' s vaping , include price , location , sale and use , colour , flavour , disposable item , advertising , education and enforcement . I join Members from across the House in express concern about the way in which vaping be market to , and take up by , child . we have hear that vaping be a useful tool to help people to quit smoking , and that it be safe than smoke tobacco and cut down the chance of develop condition such as cancer . however , the Liberal Democrats be deeply concerned by the rise and prevalence of single - use disposable vape , which be explicitly target at young people , be it through the use of brightly coloured advertisement , a range of playful colour or their placement near the front of supermarket . we must ensure that young people do not become addicted to those product , and that vape do not become a gateway to smoking . I be grateful to the right hon . member for Romsey and Southampton North ( Caroline Nokes ) , who , during her excellent speech , refer to the location of vape bar in supermarket . I will expand on that point by talk a little about my own experience of it . a few month ago , a parent of a student at Tiverton High School in Devon reach out to I as he be deeply concerned by the rise in the theft of vape from our local Morrisons supermarket , which be just a short walk from Tiverton High School , make it easily accessible before and after school , and perhaps during lunch break . I visit the store and find that the vape stand be indeed right next to the shop entrance , offer a range of single - use disposable vape . my staff speak to the staff at the store , and it emerge that that spot be , yes , choose by the vendor . the vendor specifically insist on the vape stand be at the front of the shop in that way , and pay extra for it . as be the case in other supermarket , the security team be not regularly station by the front of the shop , so it seem ludicrous to I and my team that those product be place so close to the door and leave unprotected . we take up the cause and campaign with community representative , include those from Tiverton High School , and speak with staff from morrison to get that change . after a short investigation , the store offer first to have a security guard stand next to the vape stand , but clearly , that be not enough . I be pleased to say that , after a lot of pressure , the vape be now keep safely behind security door , which be lock during school opening and closing period on weekday , mean that vape can be buy only from the kiosk . that be very welcome news . I thank and pay tribute to Frazer Gould , from my part of Devon , who raise this issue with I . I do not think it should take a constituent lobby a Member of Parliament , and that Member of Parliament get directly involve , to ensure that those addictive product be not leave openly accessible to young people . the hon . Member be make an excellent speech . it be very helpful of he to point out the constructive action of his constituent in this regard , although he be correct to say that it be we who should act . we should appreciate all the constituent of our who be very focused on this , include my constituent Laura Young , who have do so much work to try to get vape off our street . I be grateful to the hon . member . I also pay tribute to other constituent of mine : many of the young people who attend Tiverton High School . I do not want to mischaracterise they as people who be only out to steal vape bar from the supermarket at lunch time . I have be to that school several time , and there be some brilliant pupil there . many of they be aware of the risk of become addict to vape bar . the campaigner , the high school and my team have work with Morrisons and we have get that arrangement in place , but that be clearly just one arrangement with one supermarket . what we definitely need to do be think about single - use vape bar in the round . it be clear that we need to ban the sale of single - use disposable vape , clamp down on the appeal packaging and the advertising of those product , and ensure that the shameless vaping company can not get our child hook on those addictive device . one of the great pleasure of be tail - end Charlie in these debate be that one have the opportunity to sit through and listen to every contribution . the disadvantage be get nudge to hurry up by those on the Front Bench . so , I have tear up my original speech , Madam Deputy Speaker , and will focus instead on the bit from the contribution of other that you do not have the opportunity to hear yourself . there have be lot of interesting suggestion on how we can solve this problem , which we all agree need to be address . I be a father of teenage child as well , and I share the concern of my hon . friend the Member for Winchester ( Steve Brine ) . I have experience of my own child ' s friend use vape — their friend , I hasten to add . that ' s what they all say ! as the hon . Lady say , that be what they all say . obviously that be wholly inappropriate , but part of the problem in reach the correct solution to this share concern have be demonstrate by the richness of the debate we have have today . all sort of suggestion have be make . my non - exhaustive list indicate that some hon . member say that we should ban flavour . some of they say that we should ban all flavour ; other say that we should ban only flavour that be target directly at young palate . there have be suggestion that we should ban disposable vape , or that we should require bland packaging for vape , although other suggest that the issue be not so much the packaging as the fact that they should be hide behind close door . there have be a suggestion that we should increase the cost of vape , but that be controversial — the hon . member for North Tyneside ( Mary Glindon ) rightly point out that for adult seek to give up smoking who be on very limited mean , the cost of vape be a very relevant consideration . the cost be indeed important , both in price child out of the pocket money market and in ensure that smoker who be seek to quit can do so . however , to a smoker who can afford a packet of cigarette , even if £ 5 be put on the cost of a disposable vape , as my right hon . friend the Member for Romsey and Southampton North ( Caroline Nokes ) describe , the vape be still cheap . I be grateful for that intervention . I do not have skin in the game about whether it be well to have a high cost or a low cost , but my hon . friend ' s intervention have highlight my fundamental point , which be that this be a complex area where we need evidence to base our policy on . it have be suggest that we should crack down on marketing . other have suggest that we should increase education in school , and there be a wide debate about school policy and the use of loo in school . there be other concern , override all of these , about what impact our action in relation to vape — include single - use vape — could have on the ability of adult to give up smoking , in order to continue the downward trend of smoking addiction in this country . these be serious and interrelated issue . if this debate be to result in a Division , there be no way that I could support the labour motion , which focus solely on ban branding and advertising for the young , because it may not go far enough . it may just focus on one little area , when the richness of the debate on both side have highlight how much wide and more complex the issue be . as such , what we be really talk about be not so much our concern about vaping , include by child : the main issue be , " how should we make our law ? " it be a give on both side of the Chamber that action should be take , and the first speech on behalf of the Government , make by the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my hon . friend the Member for Harborough ( Neil o ' Brien ) make it clear that the Government have already act and be intend to go far . in fact , the Secretary of State say at Health question yesterday that the Government be look to go far , particularly on single - use disposable . it be not a question of whether we be go to act : the question be , on what basis do we act ? for my money , we should act on the evidence and not solely on anecdote , important though that be . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? order . I would gently say that the hon . Lady have make a long contribution , and I do have two other speaker to get in . that be the only problem . thank you for that indication , Madam Deputy Speaker . to wrap up my submission , I will say that the Government be absolutely right to have put out a call for evidence . that evidence have now be obtain , last month , and the Government should take every second that be need to assess it and come up with draft proposal , but not a second long , because this be a very important issue . as a parent , I share the concern that have be express across the House . we need to address this issue — we can not waste time — but we should do so base on the evidence . I draw attention to my role as a vice - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on smoking and health . perhaps I could start my speech with a quiz , although I do not really want any answer because that would in effect name killer cigarette . no . 1 : which brand be promote here ? " give your throat a vacation … smoke a fresh cigarette " . that brand be promote with a picture of an ear , nose and throat specialist hold what be describe as a " germ - proof " pack of cigarette as he have test the brand ' s ability to filter the " peppery dust … that make you cough . " no . 2 : Cigares De Joy make the claim that these cigarette benefit those suffer from " asthma , cough , bronchitis , hay - fever , influenza & shortness of breath " . no . 3 , and I will name this one for context : Eve , the cigarette for the " feminine woman " , package in a box with a floral design , with ad claim : " flower on the outside . flavor on the inside . " I remember the former Member for Broxtowe , Anna Soubry , speak of the sophisticated , long , slimline menthol cigarette that be a passion in her day . there be hundred , if not thousand , of other advert promote cigarette that we can see online today . yes , there be cigarette advertising sell the health benefit or the glamorous , sophisticated femininity of a killer product that we all know would never be allow to be manufacture if someone come up with the idea today . the law , over the year , have put those ad into the past , but the tobacco company have always be very clever in their marketing . let we be in no doubt but that , for generation , they have always have their eye on the next generation of smoker , with child very much in their sight . now we have e - cigarette , many of they manufacture by the same tobacco company , which be become increasingly popular with child and young people . when I drive past local secondary school , it be common to see young people — it appear more girl than boy — suck away on one of these device . the advertising of they be a real throwback to those day I have describe , when cigarette be sell as healthy , sophisticated product that everybody should use . yesterday , at Health and Social Care question , I ask the Secretary of State why he have not act to stop the new range of advertisement for e - cigarette feature gummy bear and Skittles , with bright colour and cartoon character on packaging and labelling , by adopt Labour ' s amendment — that of my hon . friend the Member for City of Durham ( Mary Kelly Foy ) — to the Health and Care Bill to ban such advertising . he answer that " we have already take action . we take measure in April , and the Prime Minister announce further measure in May . we be keen to follow the evidence . that be why we have have a call for evidence . the ministerial team be look extremely closely at this , and we will take further action to clamp down on something that we all recognise be a risk to child , which be why we be act on it . " — [ Official Report , 11 July 2023 ; Vol . 736 , c . 156 . ] but he be not act on advertising . he could put a stop to it now . I take issue with people who say that this be not a political issue , because minister have take what I can only describe as a political choice to do nothing in this space . the Minister ask my hon . friend the Member for Denton and Reddish ( Andrew Gwynne ) for specific thing that need to be do . well , an advertising ban be very specific . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? no , I will not . yes , something may change in the future , but we need action now . I think the Immigration Minister would probably agree with we — he have the cartoon character in a detention centre paint over because they be too welcoming and attractive . I will not condone that callous approach to child by the Immigration Minister , but I be sure he would agree that such attractive thing should be remove from vape advertising and pack . I well remember my original ten - minute rule Bill and other Back - Bench Bills to outlaw smoking in car with child present . minister refuse to back the measure , even though 600 , 000 child every day have to share their driver ' s smoke . three year later , the Health Minister , the then MP for Battersea , propose her own amendment . to be fair , she do acknowledge my work and that of organisation such as the British Lung Foundation , Action on Smoking and Health , and Fresh . the Minister say then that the Government be follow the evidence , but there have be year of it , and we do not need any more evidence for the Secretary of State to follow in relation to the advertising of e - cigarette . it be already plain to see . the hon . Gentleman be make an impassioned speech , which include a great deal of discussion about advertising . would he care to comment on the advertising for vape on London bus ? that be an interesting question . I would not personally want to see the advertising of vape on London bus , particularly if they appeal to child . it have be plain that manufacturer be directly target young people . I do not know whether gummy bear and skittle be akin to the claim glamour and sophistication of cigarette , but the advertising be promote a product with the kind of modern image that appeal to youngster . we must not forget that e - cigarette have their place , but that be as an adult quit aid , not a child ' s toy or sweet substitute . in my area , North Tees and Hartlepool NHS Foundation Trust now include vape as part of its adult in - patient tobacco dependency treatment service . vape be offer as part of a wide toolkit of treatment available to those who smoke on admission to hospital , alongside nicotine replacement therapy and specialist behavioural support . patient be provide with support to remain smoke - free during their hospital admission , and follow discharge home . reduce exposure to second - hand smoke have be a priority of mine for many year , and lead to that ban on smoking in car with child present in 2015 . we have know for a long time that breathe in tobacco smoke concentrate in enclose place be harmful , and at its bad deadly , particularly when child be involve . for parent and carer addict to nicotine , replace cigarette with vape can substantially reduce the risk to their child . however , promote vape to adult as a quitting aid should not go hand in hand with the dreadful marketing of vape to child . require standardised packaging for vape be essential , and the Government can be reassure that that have strong public and political support . indeed , it may not be a political issue , because member across the House support it . the overwhelming majority of the public would like we to go far and ban all advertising and promotion in shop , which be currently unregulated . when I walk into shop in my local constituency — I be sure I be not alone in this — e - cigarette be promote everywhere . as other have say , vape be thrust in child ' s face in all kind of shop , at the till or by the sweet , which be totally unacceptable . when the Government respond to the consultation on youth vaping in the autumn , I urge they to commit to bring forward legislation to ban not just the child - friendly branding of vape , but their in - store promotion . as my hon . friend the Member for Denton and Reddish say , we must not forget the issue of smoke itself , which be still the lead cause of premature death and inequality in healthy life expectancy across society . smoking do not just damage people ' s health ; it undermine our nation ' s productivity , cost more than £ 20 billion a year to our public finance for health , social care and social security . I know that the Minister be committed to achieve the Government ' s smoke - free 2030 ambition , and I welcome the measure announce early this year to support smoker to quit with free vape , and to provide additional support to help pregnant smoker quit . however , those be only a tiny proportion of the measure recommend by the independent review that the Government commission from Javed Khan , to provide advice on how to achieve the smoke - free ambition . indeed , the funding be only a quarter of that call for by Javed Khan , and the commitment be for only two year . meanwhile , big tobacco continue to make extreme profit by sell highly addictive , lethal product . a levy on the industry be popular , feasible , and support by voter of all political persuasion , as well as by the majority of tobacco retailer . the manufacturer have the money , and they should be make to pay to end the epidemic . in a debate in the House on 20 June on the smoke - free 2030 ambition , the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) ask the Minister to explain how , when and where the Government will find the additional funding need to deliver that ambition without a commitment to a levy on tobacco manufacturer . he receive no answer , so I hope the Minister will answer that question today . finally , I ask again : will the Minister bring forward the necessary legislation to end the child - target advertising of e - cigarette ? minister know that be the right thing to do . twenty - nine year ago I hand in my dissertation for my degree . it be focus on tobacco advertising , and the very argument be make today by the industry be be make back then as to why it be so important that advertising should not be prohibit far . that be why today ' s debate should be as much about the business model , drive by the industry , as about the harm from these product to child and young people . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Denton and Reddish ( Andrew Gwynne ) on bring this motion before the House , because the timing be so important . some 30 % of child and young people across Yorkshire have already try vape and we know , as we move into that summer period , that more and more child will be socialise outside of school time , and those risk will go up , as will the number of adult we see vape . I be honour to sit on the Health and Social Care Committee as we take evidence from the industry , health professional and an articulate headteacher talk about their experience . what I have to say back be that over the past 29 year , we have see an industry that have become far canny in how it advertise and market its product than it be in yesteryear . the situation call on the Government to step up and be far canny in be able to expediently put in place the full range of measure that we know will have an impact on the number of young people take up vaping . we welcome the reduction in the number of child smoke cigarette , and we have see that important shift over the decade . we know the measure that have lever that in — increase the cost have certainly have an effect , and make smoking less accessible and less attractive have have an impact — but what also need to be learn be that the very mechanism put in place around cigarette need to be apply immediately to vaping , too . if we look at some of the measure introduce over the past 20 year , we have see the billboard take down along with newspaper and magazine advertising , the removal of tobacco from promotion , its removal from sport , its access take away in shop , the shutter put down , vend machine take away and these product be put out of use . there be also important public health measure to move away from indoor smoking and , as my hon . friend the Member for Stockton North ( Alex Cunningham ) have just say , smoke in car where there be child . we also have that important intervention on plain packaging , which we know Israel and Finland have already introduce for e - cigarette . there be therefore no reason for a delay here . the industry be use every reason it can consider as to why it need to continue use advertising . I cross - examine the industry at the Select Committee . to summarise some of the exchange , we be discuss why Blackburn Rovers have those product on the shirt of the hero of that town . the industry be say , " it ' s really important that we distract people from tobacco product on to our product , because that be our public health measure . " I challenge back and say , " why don ' t you have public health message on those shirt instead ? " of course , they argue that that would not work , because they want to draw in the next generation of people to use their product . that be what the industry have always be about : it be about generate profit for its shareholder . when it do that with tobacco - base product , ultimately its customer die . that be not the good business model it could induce . with vaping , the industry want to make sure it have a continuous stream of addict , and we need to understand that business model to introduce the public health measure need around harm reduction . if we look at the figure , we see that a YouGov survey show that of the 3 . 6 million adult who be vape , 2 million be ex - smoker who have now return to use a nicotine - base product , 1 . 4 million be current smoker and 200 , 000 have never smoke and be vape . another survey show that of the people who be vape , only 47 % be also smoker , and 53 % be not . we can deduce from that that the reach of these measure and the availability of vaping product mean they be be use far beyond the purpose that Public Health England intend and that Javed Khan put in his report to reduce people ' s use of tobacco - base product . as a result , we be see more people draw into an addictive habit , addict to nicotine and able to use it more regularly and with far more availability . they be therefore take on high quantity of this drug , and we be see the consequence of that . the call for take all the same measure currently in place for cigarette be therefore vital . ash and other recommend put an excise tax of £ 5 on the product , and we will need to adjust the cost of cigarette in line with that to ensure that they remain less attractive . we need to ensure that we have investment in the trading standard workforce to address the illicit trade we see in counterfeit product , with the danger they cause . on brand , it be very clear that plain packaging be require . we must remove the cartoon , the sweet name , the colour and the flavour that be currently be propagate . we must also ensure that promotion be not possible in any sphere . ultimately , we need to ensure that these product be use only for harm reduction and take that really important whole approach to public health as oppose to look at one product or another . we have get to question why young people be take up the use of nicotine . yes , there be peer pressure — of course , we understand that , and that be really important . we hear about how child discuss the different flavour and try they out , use the product more and more as a result . yes , there be the power of advertising — why else would company advertise but to attract custom ? but why be it that young people need a dependency on a drug ? we need to get to the heart of that question through a wide public health approach . I be very disappointed that the Government have pull away from some of their public health strategy , include the health disparity White Paper and bring forward a more holistic approach to public health . ultimately , we have get to protect young people from become the addict of the future . that be the role of this Parliament I call the shadow Minister . I be grateful to all right hon . and hon . member who have take part in what have be a largely consensual debate . we have hear from colleague across the House about the growth in the number of child who be vape , concern about physical and mental health impact , the disruption to education and the drain on staff time in school . the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee , the hon . member for Winchester ( Steve Brine ) , speak of the evidence that the Committee have hear on the impact of vape on the education of student , include interruption to exam . my hon . friend the Member for Ealing , Southall ( Mr Sharma ) highlight the ongoing prevalence of smoking and the need for further work to tackle illegal tobacco sale as well as work to tackle vaping . the right hon . member for Romsey and Southampton North ( Caroline Nokes ) speak about the important role of vape in smoking cessation . there be no disagreement from the Opposition on that . I be not so grateful to she for take I back to the revolt smoke - fill environment of the toilet in my secondary school in the 1980 , which be a memory that I have long since seek to banish . my hon . friend the Member for North Tyneside ( Mary Glindon ) speak about the need for well enforcement of the exist age verification regulation regard vape . the hon . member for Erewash ( Maggie Throup ) highlight the sophistication of the packaging , design and presentation of vape product in retail outlet and how attractive that make they . my hon . friend the Member for City of Durham ( Mary Kelly Foy ) , who have a long track record of work on this issue , highlight the extent of the evidence on vaping that be already available to the Government . the hon . member for Darlington ( Peter Gibson ) highlight the impact of disposable vape on the environment and the increase in plastic pollution . my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Erdington ( Mrs Hamilton ) speak from her experience as a former nurse and highlight the serious problem of vape equipment be use to distribute more dangerous substance by young people . the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) , who speak from her extensive work on this subject , highlight concern about the accuracy of datum on the safety of vaping . the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) speak about work in his constituency that show it be possible for retailer to take a different approach to vape . my hon . friend the Member for Stockton North ( Alex Cunningham ) highlight the Government ' s failure to act on advertising . my hon . friend the Member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) speak about the lesson that can be learn from the anti - smoke measure that have be so successful as well as the need to recognise this issue as one of addiction and to locate it in the wide landscape of the addiction economy . vaping have shift from a smoking cessation tool to a recreational activity in its own right , drive by the rapacious desire of tobacco company — which fund many of the large vape supplier — to keep make a profit from the highly addictive substance of nicotine . the growth in the use of vape by 11 to 15 - year - old have be rapid , increase by 50 % in the past three year . one in five 11 to 15 - year - old in England use vape in 2021 . the figure will be high now . the important role of vaping in smoking cessation have lead to a widespread perception that it be a harmless activity , rather than a less harmful activity than smoke . last year , 40 child be admit to hospital for suspect vaping - relate disorder . young people use e - cigarette be twice as likely to suffer from a chronic cough than non - user . there be report that nicotine dependency contribute to cognitive and attention deficit condition , and worsen mood disorder . the brain develop gradually over time , and be think to continue develop in people until they be 25 . some country have different age limit for different thing . do the hon . member think that 18 be the right age limit for vape ? the hon . member speak from her experience on this issue . we have set out a motion contain some immediate action that the Government can take , which be well - evidence , particularly from the approach take to combat smoking . I agree that the Government should look urgently at other aspect of the regulatory framework on vaping , some of which we have hear about today . vaping product be market directly to child , name after sweet such as gummy bear , Skittles and tutti frutti , in brightly coloured packaging decorate with cartoon character . there be also evidence , include from research undertake by one of my constituent who I meet during evidence week last week , of the burgeon growth in vape among 18 to 25 - year - old , almost entirely unrelated to smoking cessation . a new generation of vaping product have be design to be desirable object in their own right . if action be not take to tackle the accessibility of vape to child , we can only expect vaping among young adult to continue to grow . the hon . member talk about child and 18 to 25 - year - old . what age do she think be appropriate to ban vaping — 16 , 18 or 25 ? the current law prohibit the sale of vape to under - 18 - year - old . we be not propose a change in the law on the prohibition of sale . I be simply highlight that young people grow , and those who become addicted to vape under the age of 18 be much more likely to carry that addiction into young adulthood . that be the point that I be seek to make . we can expect a pipeline of young people become addict to vaping , which may stay with some of they for the rest of their life . this government have be asleep at the wheel on child and vaping . they have the opportunity to vote for measure to protect child from vape last year but fail to do so . the measure that the Minister have announce most recently be well late than never , but be simply inadequate to the task . ASH be clear that while educate young people on the risk of vape through a new resource pack for school be welcome , the evidence suggest that education alone will not stop child from vape . there be substantial evidence on what work in reduce smoking rate among child . in 1982 , when England first start monitor smoking rate among child , one in five child be a current smoker . eighteen year later in 2000 , the proportion be exactly the same — not because child be not educate about the danger , but because adolescent be risk taker . between 2000 and 2021 , smoke rate among child fall from 19 % to just 3 % — not because of well education or enforcement but because the regulatory framework during that time ratchet up year by year . under the last Labour Government , all point of sale advertising and display of tobacco be prohibit . a comprehensive anti - smuggling strategy be implement by HMRC and the UK Border Force , which dramatically reduce sale of illicit tobacco , and cigarette be put in standardised packaging , with all the brightly coloured glamourise packaging remove . what be true for the strategy to tackle smoking be true for the challenge of vaping . without much tough regulation , we will not succeed in drive down vaping among child and young people . regulation on packaging , advertising and labelling be essential . labour be call on the Government to ban vape from be brand and advertise to appeal to child , and to work with local council — I be very grateful to the hon . Lady for give way . she have take a number of intervention from colleague . the motion refer to child . the shadow Minister comment that there be no proposal , under a Labour Government , to change the age of 18 for purchase tobacco . by process of elimination , do the word " child " in the motion refer to anyone under the age of 18 ? will she clarify that point ? I be sure member across the House do not need much help from I to identify the definition of a child in law as be a person under the age of 18 . I will simply move on from there . what I will say about the motion be that it set out measure over which I think there can be no disagreement . there can be no disagreement about advertising target at child . measure to deal with packaging that appeal to child could be introduce right now and would have a direct impact on the very alarming number of child and young people who be vape . this have be a very consensual debate , which have acknowledge and set out some of the complexity around the issue , as well as some area where the Government should be look at additional regulation and the wide regulatory framework around vaping . I do not think there be disagreement on that either . what we be set out today be immediate action that be long , long overdue . frankly , we struggle to see why the Government have be drag their heel , refuse to act and not accept these measure . as I say , Labour be call on the Government to ban vape from be brand and advertise to appeal to child , and to work with local council and the NHS to help ensure that e - cigarette be use as an aid to stop smoking , rather than as a new form of smoking and addiction . it be inexplicable that the Government be resistant to those entirely proportionate and evidence - base proposal . if they will not act to protect child and young people , the next Labour Government certainly will . I thank the many right hon . and hon . member who have make a valuable contribution to this afternoon ' s debate . I will respond to the issue they have raise throughout my remark . I will start , without dismiss many of the concern we have hear , by reiterate the importance of vape in help smoker move to healthy alternative than cigarette . vape be help we to reach our smokefree 2030 target . there be currently about 3 . 5 million vaper in England , 47 % of whom be ex - smoker and 39 % of whom be dual user . the good thing , obviously , be for a smoker to stop smoke completely , but as show in the recently publish " Nicotine Vaping in England " report , there be clear evidence that vape be substantially less harmful to health than smoke . with around 3 million user , vape have become the most popular quit aid in England and evidence indicate that they can help smoker to quit , particularly when combine with additional support from local stop smoking service . that be why , in April this year , the Government announce a range of new measure to meet our smokefree 2030 ambition and reduce youth vaping . we have 1 million smoker who will be encourage to swap their cigarette for vape through a new national " swap to stop " scheme , the first of its kind in the world . pregnant woman will be offer financial incentive , in the form of voucher , to help they to stop smoke , alongside behavioural support . we will also consult on introduce mandatory cigarette pack insert with positive message and information to help people quit smoking . it be important to point those out , as the hon . member for North Tyneside ( Mary Glindon ) and for Ealing , Southall ( Mr Sharma ) do . will the Minister confirm that the statement make in the 2015 evidence update by Public Health England , that vaping be 95 % safe than smoking , remain valid today ? I thank the hon . Lady for that point , which my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) also raise . the 2015 evidence study be indeed conduct by Public Health England . the most recent evidence we have , from 2022 , do not give that precise figure ; it do emphasise that vaping be safe than smoking , but do not indicate by how much . as the debate have make clear , despite vape ' s effectiveness as a tool to quit smoking , illegal under - age vape sale be a grow concern for many parent and teacher across the country , and vaping have increase rapidly among under - 18 in the past 18 month . the recent rise in teenage user show that vape be be use beyond their intended audience . as my right hon . friend the Member for Romsey and Southampton North ( Caroline Nokes ) highlight , there be multiple reason for that , but whether it be packaging , name or flavouring , the unintended consequence be clear . as my hon . friend the Member for Broadland ( Jerome Mayhew ) point out , these consequence be not necessarily easy to deal with , as there may be unintended consequence of do so — for example , tax increase on vape might prevent people who want to give up smoking from do so . there be no easy solution , so we need to take our time before make further decision . that be why in April we launch a call for evidence on youth vaping . it close last month , and official at the Department have begin to examine the response . we will set out our response in the autumn . other speaker , such as my hon . friend the Member for Erewash ( Maggie Throup ) speak about why it be so important that we consider go far . my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham , who speak with considerable experience , point out that this not a party political issue , but a cross - Government matter , with the Department of Health and Social Care deal with safety , the Department for Education provide advice to child , the Department for Culture , Media and Sport deal with the role of advertising , and the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs deal with the disposable product element . to stop child buy vape , we also need business to comply with exist regulation and to abide by the standard we have set . to help enforcement of the regulation , we have team up with enforcement agency to fund a new illicit vaping unit , which will remove product from shelf and at our border , and stop the sale of vape to child . in May , the Prime Minister announce further measure , include close a loophole that allow industry to give out free sample ; increase education and support designate school police liaison officer ' work to keep illegal vape out of school ; and review the rule on issue on - the - spot fine to shop sell vape to under - 18 , as well as the rule on sell nicotine - free vape to under - 18 , to ensure that the rule keep pace with how vape be be use . to respond to a point make by my hon . friend the Member for Eastbourne ( Caroline Ansell ) , we be also look at add lesson on the health risk of vaping as part of the current RSE curriculum review . those measure will help headteacher and other school leader to manage vaping on school premise and inform young people about the risk of vaping , with a view to reduce the number of young people who be currently vape or might be tempt to try it in the future . as a number of speaker point out , we must of course be wary of the environmental impact , in particular of single - use disposable vape . increase use of these product be lead to their improper disposal . that be why DEFRA be soon to consult on reform the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Regulations 2013 to ensure that more of this material be properly recycle . we shall continue to work with the sector and industry to help business to understand their responsibility , both to ensure that their environmental obligation be meet , and to ensure that product be not market to child , be produce to the high UK standard , and be compliant with our regulation . I emphasise that until recently our vaping regulation have be effective in keep rate of vape among under - 18 low , but of course we acknowledge that there be problem and that we have see an increase in usage , which be why the consultation be about look into what more we can do . I welcome the consultation to tackle this problem , but will the Minister confirm that any appropriate measure that the Government take to reduce youth access to vape will not harm our pragmatic science - lead approach to ensure that adult have access to the full range of alternative to help they to quit cigarette for good ? that be the balance we have to create . we do not want unintended consequence whereby we reduce the use of vape in under - 18 but also stop their use among those who be quit smoking . we know from our evidence that vaping be much safe than smoking . for those community , very often in deprive area , where there be high rate of smoking , we do not want the cost of vape to be prohibitive and for people not to switch to they instead of smoking . our current law protect child by restrict the sale of vape to over - 18 and limit nicotine content , and there be regulation on refill bottle , tank size , labelling requirement and advertising restriction . it be important that we remember that regulation be in place , and it be important that they be enforce . the Minister be talk about evidence that vape be much safe , but I notice that she have not use the 95 % figure that be use by the industry . clearly , the absence of evidence of harm and evidence of the absence of harm be different thing , so will the Minister clarify whether she have evidence that vaping device be much safe ? or do she just not have evidence yet , because they be so new , that they be not dangerous ? the evidence be there that vape be considerably safe than smoking , and that be bear out in the 2022 report . the 95 % figure be not use then , but I think there be a general consensus that , as the chief medical officer have say , vaping be a much safe alternative to smoke cigarette . it be important to remember that regulation be currently in place ; it be about enforce they , which be why the Government have introduce the illicit vape enforcement squad to tackle under - age vape sale , as well as the illicit product that young people can access . we be fund that with £ 3 million of Government funding . will the Minister give a timescale for when the Government will introduce plain packaging for vape product ? as I just say and as the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my hon . friend the Member for Harborough ( Neil o ' Brien ) say early in the debate , the consultation close only recently . official be go through the evidence and will come forward with the result in the autumn and take they forward . I raise the issue of addiction ; although the Minister have say that vaping product be safe , do she agree that if they be draw more child into addiction , they be clearly not safe in that field ? we have to consider the evidence and that be not necessarily what the evidence say . NHS England be review the number of admission and incident that it feel be cause by vape , so we be gather the evidence on that . we need to take an evidence - base approach and currently there be not the evidence that there be necessarily an addiction problem . but we do need to keep build the evidence base . as we have set out today , we be commit to take strong and assertive action to tackle youth vaping , and we be willing to go far as part of our evidence - base approach . we have to work with all party and across Government . this be not just a health issue : it be an issue for the Department for Education , for the Department for Culture , Media and Sport in term of advertising , and for DEFRA in respect of how single - use vape be dispose of . we be committed to effectively tackle the issue and drive down youth vaping rate , while make sure that vape be available to smoker as an effective aid to quit smoking . we be committed to do all we can to prevent child from start vaping and we be actively work on way that we can go far . we will go far in not only protect child but drive down smoking rate , so that we make a future where people be not damage by smoking . to meet our smokefree 2030 ambition , we will do all we can to prevent people from start smoking in the first place and to give people the support that they need to quit . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House be concerned that child be be inappropriately expose to e - cigarette promotion and that under - age vaping have increase by 50 % in just the last three year ; condemn the Government for its failure to act to protect child by vote against the addition of measure to prohibit branding which be appeal to child on e - cigarette packaging during the passage of the Health and Care Act 2022 and for fail to bring forward the tobacco control plan that it promise by the end of 2021 ; and therefore call on the Government to ban vape from be brand and advertise to appeal to child and to work with local council and the NHS to help ensure that e - cigarette be be use as an aid to stop smoking , rather than as a new form of smoking . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Consumer Protection that the draft Tobacco and related Products ( Amendment ) ( Northern Ireland ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 12 June , be approve . — ( Fay Jones . ) question agree to . European Statutory Instruments Committee ( Temporary Standing Order ) order , that the European Statutory Instruments Committee Order of 3 February 2020 ( as amend on 17 March 2021 ) be amend as follow : ( 1 ) in paragraph ( 1 ) ( a ) , delete " 3 ( 3 ) ( b ) or " ( 2 ) leave out paragraph ( 1 ) ( b ) and insert : " ( b ) any of the following document lay before the House of Commons in accordance with paragraph 6 ( 3 ) ( b ) of Schedule 5 to the Retained EU Law ( Revocation and Reform ) Act 2023 — ( i ) a draft of an instrument ; and ( ii ) a memorandum set out both a statement make by a Minister of the Crown to the effect that in the Minister ' s opinion the instrument should be subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament ( the negative procedure ) and the reason for that opinion , and " ( 3 ) leave out paragraph ( 2 ) ( b ) and insert : " ( b ) contain any provision of the type specify in paragraph 5 ( 2 ) of Schedule 5 to the Retained EU Law ( Revocation and Reform ) Act 2023 in relation to which the Act require that a draft of the instrument must be lay before , and approve by a resolution of , each House of Parliament ( the affirmative procedure ) ; " ( 4 ) leave out paragraph ( 16 ) ( a ) and 16 ( c ) and insert : " ( ) in so far as it relate to document lay in accordance with paragraph 6 ( 3 ) ( b ) of Schedule 5 to the Retained EU Law ( Revocation and Reform ) Act 2023 ( and matter arise from the consideration of such document ) , at the end of the period after which no more regulation may be make under Sections 11 , 12 , or 14 of that Act ; " . — ( Fay Jones . ) presentation of Documents Ordered , that where , under paragraph 17 ( 3 ) ( b ) of Schedule 7 to the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 or paragraph 6 ( 3 ) ( b ) of Schedule 5 to the Retained EU Law ( Revocation and Reform ) Act 2023 , any document be to be lay before this House , the delivery of a copy of the document to the Votes and Proceedings Office on any day during the existence of a Parliament shall be deem to be for all purpose the laying of it before the House ; and the proviso to Standing Order no . 159 ( presentation of statutory instrument ) shall not apply to any document lay in accordance with this order . — ( Fay Jones . ) on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . during Prime Minister ' s question today , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) ask the Deputy Prime Minister what Emily from Chard , and million like she , should do when their local dentist surgery close , leave they unable to get the care they need . the Deputy Prime Minister advise the people of Chard to vote for the conservative candidate in the upcoming Somerton and Frome by - election . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] it seem to I that neither the Deputy Prime Minister nor several member in the Chamber know that Chard be not in that constituency . Chard be in the yeovil constituency , as the Deputy Prime Minister should have know give that he campaign 15 mile from Chard last summer , when he be chairman of the Conservative party . I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order , which I do not think really be a point of order . he say reference be make to Chard be in another constituency , and he have make that clear . if the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) want a correction to be make , I be sure he will raise a point of order himself . the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) have put his view on the record , and we will now move on . Summerland Fire : 50th Anniversary Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Fay Jones . ) it be our duty in Parliament not to hide from the past but to learn from it . the Summerland fire have never before be the subject of a debate in this House and , as we approach the 50th anniversary of the fire , it be time that change . I take the House back to 2 August 1973 , when my constituent ' s life and the life of so many other change forever . Heather Lea be enjoy the start of married life with her husband , Reg , while her parent and little sister , June , be on holiday on the Isle of Man , a place that hold special memory for they all . sadly , those memory be all Heather have leave , because on that day her mother , Elizabeth , her father , Richard , and her little sister , June , be among the 50 people who lose their life in the Summerland fire . as we will hear , the disaster could have be avoid yet , despite this fact , the bereaved family be still fight for recognition and an apology . sadly , the chance of there ever be justice appear to have long go . Heather tell I : " fifty year be a long time but the burden have never diminish , and it never will . " the Summerland leisure centre in Douglas on the Isle of Man be state of the art when it open , two year before that fateful day , and offer a Mediterranean climate in a british seaside resort encompass a swimming pool , amusement arcade , an underground disco , restaurant and bar . on the evening of 2 August , a fire be start in an unused kiosk on the crazy golf course outside the complex . the kiosk catch fire , collapse against the exterior wall of Summerland . due to the material the architect use in the structure , the fire quickly spread . the architect of Summerland have opt to use Galbestos in its construction . Galbestos be a plastic - coat metal cladding with limited fire resistance and , in combination with the use of decalin , which burn rapidly , for the internal wall , create the perfect cocktail for a disaster . the fire break through the highly combustible surface and burn undetected for a whole 10 minute before burst into the ground floor of the leisure building , ignite the Oroglas acrylic panel use on the wall and roof . the open - plan design aid the spread of the fire , with the internal space act as chimney to spread the fire . the terror that those in the building must have feel be unthinkable ; survivor describe mass panic , with the building appear to melt before their eye . one survivor say : " there be fireball come down . it be like rain fire . there be no way to get away from it . " the fire be the deadly on land since the second world war . I realise as I say these word just how difficult it must be for the love one of those who be there to hear they . just over a month after the disaster , the lieutenant governor of the Isle of Man appoint a commission to investigate the Summerland fire , under its chair , the hon . Mr Justice Joseph Cantley OBE . the Summerland fire Commission identify several factor in the high number of death , include the construction of the building and the evacuation process , which be describe as " delay , unorganised and difficult " with a number of exit lock . it become clear that the material use in the construction be know to be a safety risk . either through the ignorance of professional who ought to have know well or as a result of downright deception , they be still permit for use . it be clear that regulation be bent to allow that to happen . the original inquiry in 1973 refer to the drawing submit as unclear , with no dimension and minimal detail , include a serious error where the composition of the sixth floor be incorrectly label . significant change be then make to the design to keep cost down , which the report say do not illicit any " particular discussion or anxiety ' , despite replace reinforce concrete wall with Galbestos , which be already know to have limit fire - resistance . the planning submission relate to Summerland contravene a number of building byelaw and fail to meet the requirement that external wall of any building be to have fire resistance of at least two hour and for ceiling to provide adequate protection against the spread of fire . permit the use of both Galbestos and Oroglas contravene such byelaw . however , a waiver be agree , as permit under the local government building byelaw legislation of 1950 . the inquiry report that the borough engineer have be orally inform by the architect of the corporation that Oroglas be non - combustible . although the chief fire staff officer make it clear that Oroglas be combustible and offer no fire resistance , he raise no objection to the planning committee , which be task with reach a decision on the waiver . correspondence between the various architect make it clear that the design of the centre could not be deliver in any other way , as it say : " unless we be grant " — an Oroglas waiver — " we shall be in the soup as I can not suggest an alternative . " compensatory safety measure should still have be take , such as more exit and a sprinkler system , but no sprinkler be instal . Oroglas be blame for the disaster . although it burn with frightening speed , the main culprit be Galbestos , which be use instead of reinforce concrete , but the fire resistance of that material be never even consider . the failure to consider the property of material be not isolate to those in the authority . the decision to substitute decalin for plasterboard without understand that it be also combustible , thus give risk to a combustible void , be describe by the inquiry as what " may well have be the big single structural contribution to the disaster of the fire " . give the time constraint , I be able to provide only a brief overview of the concern in the process that result in permission be grant to Summerland . however , just from what I have say , it be clear that there be multiple failing across the board , any one of which could have be disastrous on its own ; put together , it be sadly all too clear how this tragedy unfold . even use the standard of the time , though , it be difficult to see how the judgment of death by misadventure , which the inquiry reach , can stand up to any kind of scrutiny . I thank the hon . gentleman for secure this debate . I rise on behalf of my constituent Jackie , who come to tell I what happen to her last year . I have not hear about Summerland before , but she be in Summerland with her mother and her good friend . they both die , but she survive . I know that the hon . Gentleman be go to come on to what we can do now , but , have talk about the fire deficiency , do he agree that 50 year on we need an apology for those deficiency ? do he agree that we also need an apology for and recognition of the suffering cause to the survivor ? thirdly , and most importantly , do he agree that we should request that the Isle of Man Government have another review of the death by misadventure verdict ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention and for the support he have give to the campaign . as I will go on to say , the Apologise for Summerland campaign have make those request , which I will talk about in more detail later in my speech . take the point raise by the hon . Gentleman , death by misadventure equate to an accidental death cause by a risk that be take voluntarily . the 50 people who lose their life do not voluntarily walk into a building comprise of material that offer limited or no fire resistance . they be on holiday and they trust that those involve in build Summerland would not knowingly have use dangerous material . they believe that the building they be enter be safe . I do not think there be anyone who would think that that be not a reasonable position to take . that be why , among many other reason , death by misadventure be such an inappropriate verdict to find . the lack of clarity over the fire protection and precaution at Summerland be a huge concern . no schedule of the mean of escape exist for Summerland . enclose staircase have no ventilation . opening be not all fire - resist or self - close and contain material that be not fire - resistant . the physical shortcoming of the construction be clear , but the organisation of emergency procedure be also sorely lack . some member of staff who be part of the " fire - fight party " be not aware of their membership of it , demonstrate the absence of satisfactory training . there have also be unapproved change to the fire alarm system , create a delay before the alarm sound and the fire station be alert . the automatic fire alarm from Summerland alert the fire service at 8 . 05 pm . however , the public alarm at the leisure centre be still yet to sound . the inquiry conclude that " no organise system of staff training exist . . . . no member of the staff be give any duty or any instruction whatsoever as to his or her action in the event of a fire " . it be plain to see why there be mass panic when the fire start . the lack of training be sadly bear out in the event follow the discovery of the fire . one of the most startling and troubling part of the account I have read — it be a very troubling read — be when the organist , who be play at the time the fire be discover , be ask to continue play to prevent panic break out . only two minute after he be give that instruction , he report that the fire be clearly visible at the back of the amusement arcade . evacuation begin only at that point , when the flame have become visible to the visitor , cause mass panic and undoubtedly make matter bad . around 20 minute prior to that , staff have be unsuccessful in deal with the fire or in notify the fire service via the automatic alarm system . the inquiry conclude that the building , and by inference the life of those lose , could have be save if the fire service have be call shortly after it be find that the firefighte effort of the staff have fail . while there be some guidance and a document have be draw up in 1971 in regard to evacuation , knowledge among manager and staff be limited . there be no evacuation procedure in place and drill have not be carry out . those in management be unclear as to who be responsible , but fail to make enquiry to clarify that . staff be not properly train and there be no one exert overall control . have there be , the necessary alert could have be make and evacuation process could have be carry out . instead , some exit door remain locked , despite the fire service complain to management about this previously ; the escalator remain on , prevent a safe mean of escape ; and the generator fail to provide the emergency lighting that be need . the inquiry conclude that there be failure by the Douglas Corporation and the local government board in term of provide and scrutinise plan and a lack of inter - communication . the choice of architect be also criticise , with the inquiry expose their lack of scientific understanding and a failure to focus on fire safety . the inquiry say there be a lack of design management and a continual failure to examine the development of plan . that be important , because that could have highlight the flaw , result in error be identify . I thank the hon . gentleman for give way and I congratulate he on bring forward the debate . as it happen , I be in the Isle of Man last week , as a guest of the President of Tynwald and the Speaker of the House of Keys . one of the official guest be a lady call Ruth McQuillan - Wilson , who have write a number of book about the Summerland fire ; she herself be a survivor . I want to put on record a tribute to Ruth , who describe the event of the evening to I and the event that have subsequently follow , as the hon . Gentleman have outline . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his intervention . I echo the support that he have give to the many campaigner who have fight for more than 50 year to bring this matter to light . the structure , once it be build , do not have proper technical inspection , which would have be yet another stage at which issue could have be raise . the chief fire officer do not consider issue of firefighting on receive the original plan and be then not consult on significant change to those plan . the certification for the building , and indeed the process in general , be say not to have be stringent or rigorous , and there be an absence of fire safety and evacuation plan . it be a litany of failing . despite that , the inquiry conclude that " there be no villain " . I think we can see , beyond doubt , that that conclusion be wrong . there be clear failure in the plan by the authority , the fire service and the management of Summerland . the inquiry make 34 recommendation , demonstrate how many flaw there be , yet there remain to this day a lack of accountability . three young boy appear before the juvenile court for damage to a kiosk , but apart from that nobody take responsibility or blame — whatever you want to call it — for the failing . I do not know whether it be because there be so many people and organisation that could have be find to be at fault . perhaps it be the grossly inappropriate finding of misadventure that lead to that lack of accountability . perhaps , give the time that we be in then , accountability be just a little bit hard to find . whatever it be , once the inquiry finish that be more or less it . perhaps this failure to hold the authority or individual to account be why recognition of the disaster be so limited . my constituent describe the memorial near to the Summerland site as " insignificant and insulting " , draw comparison with a stone buy from a garden centre . she have recently discover that it be only her family who be mention in the remembrance book at the crematorium on the island , and that be only because they pay for their entry in it . I find that disappointing . in fact , I find it appalling and disrespectful . the family lose so much on that day , and recognition of such should not be reliant on payment . that be something that we expect and hope will change . the original memorial be replace with something more fitting in 2013 , on the 40th anniversary , but we must question why , for the precede 40 year , those in charge feel that the loss of 50 people do not warrant a proper memorial that would offer a space for reflection and solace . Heather tell I that even at the memorial event in 2013 , the dignitary who attend fail to approach any of the family member present , which she describe as incredibly hurtful for those visit the place where their love one have perish . after speak to Heather and Reg and learn more about the disaster , I approach the Isle of Man Government to ask they whether they would commit to a full inquiry , similar in structure to the Hillsborough inquiry — we have a blueprint that could be follow . I accept that , perhaps , give the length of time that have pass it might be a little bit unrealistic to expect that , but I still expect more than the response I receive , which simply direct I to the inquiry of 1973 . however , the impending anniversary , and perhaps the publicity surround this debate , have perhaps focus mind a little more , as I have this morning receive from the Chief Minister an email indicate that there will be a national service of remembrance on 30 July , and that he will be hold a private reception prior to that where he have indicate his wish to hear directly from the survivor and victim ' family . that certainly feel as if he have hear the concern about what happen at the 40th anniversary . he have also indicate that he will be hold an event to thank those from the emergency service who respond to the fire . the Chief Minister have also say that he will be make a formal statement about the disaster to the Isle of Man ' s Parliament next week . although we do not know what he will say in that statement , I want to use this debate to encourage the Minister to formally write on behalf of his Majesty ' s Government to indicate their support for the request make by the Apologise for Summerland campaign , which , as we have hear , be a public apology from the Isle of Man Government for the " disregard for basic fire safety in favour of save money and speedy construction ; a public apology for " the pain and suffering for the last 50 year " ; and a public admission that the death by misadventure verdict be inappropriate . I appreciate that this Parliament can not tell another Parliament what to do , but I hope that the Minister will be able , diplomatically and sincerely , to make those request and convey the feeling express by member in the House tonight . it be clear that the conclusion of the inquiry fall short of the standard that we would expect , and fall short of provide genuine accountability . there be a need for an apology from the Isle of Man Government for their role in the disaster . I hope that the Minister will be able to convey on our behalf that , as we be approach the 50th anniversary of the disaster , an apology be long overdue . the knowledge of the bereaved family that the loss of their love one could have be avoid be still incredibly painful , but the fact that their death be still legally categorise as misadventure only exacerbate that pain . I pay tribute to the bereaved family , who have never give up their fight for justice ; to the Apologise for Summerland campaign for all that it have do to give a voice to the family ; and to Grenfell United , which be stand side by side with the Summerland family . Grenfell United have say : " the similarity between Summerland and Grenfell be chill " . we will never know whether true accountability for Summerland might have prevent the Grenfell tragedy from happen . sadly , there be far too many what if , which must torment all involve . I will finish with a few word from Heather , which echo that point . she say : " we don ' t feel that it ' s ever be recognise that 50 people lose their life . I ' ve lose 50 year of have my sister … it be a fire that should never have happen . I feel so sorry for the people of Grenfell . if the report have be act upon from the Summerland fire , Grenfell probably wouldn ' t have happen . you can ' t brush something like that under the carpet anymore . " I hope that follow today ' s debate we can build on the cross - party support that we have have to date , and that through the advocacy of the UK Government , family will receive the recognition , apology and accountability that they deserve . I appreciate that the passage of time make true accountability difficult , but I be certain that they deserve well than they have have so far . I congratulate the hon . member for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) on secure this important debate . much of what I will put on record he have clearly lay out , with commendable passion for the constituent he represent . the fire break out on the evening of Thursday 2 August 1973 . it be , as the hon . Gentleman say , a horrific and tragic incident . I be sure that I speak for the whole House when I say that our thought be with the friend and family of those who lose their life , and with the survivor who still retain vivid memory of the tragedy and their loss , as both he and my hon . friend the Member for Colne Valley ( Jason McCartney ) have clearly say . I reiterate and put on record that the leisure centre , which open in 1971 , be deem to be the most innovative indoor entertainment centre in the world . it be describe as a " climate - control megastructure " and be the first of its kind in the world . however , as the hon . member for Ellesmere Port and Neston say , the building be clothe in Oroglas , a highly combustible and transparent acrylic sheet , and Galbestos , a corrosion - resistant steel sheeting . those material be not compliant with the Isle of Man ' s fire regulation at the time , which state that " external wall of any building shall be non - combustible throughout and have fire resistance of two hour " . it be later establish that the fire be cause by an accidentally discard light match or cigarette at a kiosk on the outdoor terrace at 7 . 40 pm . the initial blaze be detect by staff , who try to extinguish it . unfortunately , they have not realise that the fire have already break through the wall of the Summerland leisure centre , spread across the wall ' s interior , which ignite the flammable acrylic sheet cover the building . as the hon . Gentleman say , the attempt to evacuate the building begin only when visible flame appear through a vent . by that time , the fire be already out of control , and many people be trap inside , unable to escape . forty - eight people lose their life that night , with two more later die of their injury , and at least 80 other be injure . the Summerland fire be the bad disaster in Manx history , and remain the third - bad loss of life from fire on land in the British Isles since the second world war . the hon . Gentleman will know that the Isle of Man be a self - govern jurisdiction that be not part of the UK . it be therefore the Isle of Man ' s then lieutenant governor , his Excellency Sir Peter Stallard , and not a Minister of the UK Government , who establish a public inquiry know as the Summerland fire commission on 3 September 1973 . he appoint a three - man commission to inquire into the circumstance of , and lead up to , the fire at the Summerland leisure centre , and to make recommendation . the commission include Mr Justice Cantley , a preside english judge and a former judge of appeal on the Isle of Man ; Mr Philip Wilson - Dickson , second in command of the UK Home Office fire inspectorate ; and Professor Denis Harper , the head of the department of building at the University of Manchester Institute of Science and Technology . Sir Peter appoint Mr Justice Cantley to be chairman of the commission and Mr Carter , of the Government Office , Isle of Man , to be its secretary . the commission ' s work be finish in February 1974 and its 40 , 000 - word report , publish in May of that year , find that , as I have already note , neither Oroglas nor Galbestos comply with the Isle of Man ' s fire regulation . the report deem the tragedy to be the result of a series of human error . I know that constituent of the hon . member for Ellesmere Port and Neston lose love one that night , and constituent of other hon . member will also be remember friend and family affect by that wholly avoidable disaster . it be right that we remember the Summerland fire in the House today as we approach the 50th anniversary . it be also important that those in position of authority in relation to such matter do all they can to ensure that fire on the scale of Summerland do not happen again . the Summerland fire commission urge the immediate revision of theatre regulation and drastically change the whole approach to fire safety on the Isle of Man . as we approach the 50th anniversary of the Summerland fire , it be important that we remember those affect by the tragedy . the Deputy Chief Minister of the Isle of Man , Jane Poole - Wilson , have announce plan for a series of commemoration to mark the anniversary . these will include a national service of remembrance , a service at the Kaye memorial garden , and a formal presentation to the emergency and health service . the Isle of Man ' s Chief Minister , Alfred Cannan , will also be make a statement on the subject of the 50th anniversary to the Tynwald , the Isle of Man ' s Parliament , next Tuesday , 18 July . the commemoration will be an opportunity for the island community to come together to pay its respect to those who be affect by the disaster and to remember the victim . I be sure there will be people live in the UK , perhaps constituent of the hon . Gentleman or indeed of other hon . member present in the Chamber , who will wish to join the commemoration . I should add that , in addition to those event , Culture Vannin and Manx National Heritage will be host online exhibition and oral history project as part of the commemoration , which will provide a valuable record of the disaster and help to ensure great awareness of the Summerland tragedy , not least among young generation . the Summerland fire be a horrific tragedy that claim the life of 50 people and injure many more . as we approach the 50th anniversary of that awful night , it be important that we remember the victim and the lesson that can be learn from this tragedy . we must never forget the victim of the fire , and we must ensure , as far as we can , that something like that never happen again . I happen to be go to the Isle of Man tomorrow as part of my regular engagement with the Crown dependency . I will ensure that this debate and the comment of hon . member be convey to the Chief Minister , who I be sure will take very seriously the comment make in the Chamber tonight . question put and agree to . House adjourn . Deferred Division ADJOURNMENT ( SUMMER , CONFERENCE and CHRISTMAS ) that this House , at its rise on Thursday 20 July 2023 , do adjourn until Monday 4 September 2023 ; at its rise on Tuesday 19 September 2023 , do adjourn until Monday 16 October 2023 ; and , at its rise on Tuesday 19 December 2023 , do adjourn until Monday 8 January 2024 . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Lucy Allan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Tonia Antoniazzi Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Paula Barker John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Hilary Benn Scott Benton Paul Beresford Clive Betts Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Peter Bone Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Ben Bradshaw Graham Brady Suella Braverman Kevin Brennan Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Nick Brown Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Rob Butler Ruth Cadbury Alun Cairns Alan Campbell Dan Carden Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Sarah Champion Rehman Chishti Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Neil Coyle Stephen Crabb Stella Creasy Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Samantha Dixon Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Stephen Doughty Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Clive Efford Michael Ellis Chris Elmore Natalie Elphicke Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon fall Margaret Ferrier Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Yvonne Fovargue Liam Fox Vicky Foxcroft Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Preet Kaur Gill John Glen Mary Glindon Robert Goodwill Michael Gove James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Andrew Griffith Nia Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Robert Halfon Luke Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Mark Harper Carolyn Harris Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart Helen Hayes John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Meg Hillier Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kate Hollern Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Rachel Hopkins George Howarth John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Alister Jack Dan Jarvis Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Diana R . Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Darren Jones David Jones Fay Jones Gerald Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Mike Kane Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Greg Knight Kate Kniveton John Lamont Robert Largan Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Ian Liddell - Grainger Mark Logan Rebecca Long - Bailey Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Rachael Maskell Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Kerry McCarthy Jason McCartney Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Ed Miliband Robin Millar Maria Miller Nigel Mills Navendu Mishra Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Anne Marie Morris David Morris Grahame Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Ian Murray James Murray Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline noke Jesse Norman Alex Norris Neil o ' Brien Chi Onwurah Guy Opperman Kate Osamor Mark Pawsey Mike Penning Matthew Pennycook John Penrose Andrew Percy Bridget Phillipson Chris Philp Luke Pollard Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Lucy Powell Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Yasmin Qureshi Tom Randall Angela Rayner John Redwood Christina Rees Jacob Rees - Mogg Bell Ribeiro - Addy Angela Richardson Marie Rimmer Laurence Robertson Matt Rodda Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell Lloyd Russell - Moyle David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Andrew Selous Alok Sharma Virendra Sharma David Simmonds Chris Skidmore Cat Smith Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel Amanda Solloway John Spellar Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Chris Stephens Andrew Stephenson Jo Stevens Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Wes Streeting Mel Stride Graham Stringer Julian Sturdy Zarah Sultana James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Mark Tami Sam Tarry Derek Thomas Gareth Thomas Maggie Throup Stephen Timms Edward Timpson Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Jon Trickett Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Liz Twist Shailesh Vara Valerie Vaz Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Christian Wakeford Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Suzanne Webb Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Alan Whitehead Mick Whitley Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Beth Winter Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Mohammad Yasin Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Daniel Zeichner Edward Davey Richard Foord Mary Foy Philip Hollobone Karl McCartney the House divide : Ayes 395 , Noes 5 . question accordingly agree to .