Oral Answers to Questions Business and Trade the Secretary of State be ask — Business support : Rural Areas what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to support business in rural area . business in rural area offer significant potential for growth and be central to our economy . we be work across Government to unlock the full potential of rural business as part of the Government ' s growth mission . we be commit to launch a business growth service inspire by the US Small Business Administration , which will operate in partnership with devolved government and the growth hub network in England to make it easy to access support from Government for all business . in conversation this morning with Trudy Morris , the ceo of the Caithness chamber of commerce , she outline the sheer importance of tourism business to the local economy and the farmer in Scotland . the concern express to I be on the rate of vat on tourism and similar business , and although we do not know whether the Highland council will impose a tourism levy , that could be a double whammy . I do not expect for one instant hon . member on the Front Bench to say , " Jamie , you can have a cut in the rate of vat " — well , I dream sometimes — but I would be grateful for a meeting to discuss the nature of the problem and how we could possibly tackle it . you might get a chocolate biscuit these day . I apologise to the hon . Gentleman , as I can not fulfil his dream right now . however , I be happy to meet he to talk about that issue . I recognise that there be considerable interest in that question from the hospitality industry , so I be happy to meet to hear , in a bit more detail , the particular concern express to he . I call the shadow Minister . the Business Secretary , the Minister and the Chancellor have all say that they want growth , include in rural area . I have search high and low for business growth statistic since the Budget of broken promise , and I find that , in the last quarter , there have be a growth of 50 % in the number of business that be in critical financial distress . why do the Minister think that be ? I say gently to the hon . Lady that the difficult decision that my right hon . friend the Chancellor have to take in the Budget be , interestingly , particularly well explain by her former colleague Kwasi Kwarteng , who make it clear that he think they have to be take because of the mistake that he and the conservative party have make when they be in government . manufacturing : west midland what step he be take to support manufacturing in the west midland . it be a good night for Villa fan last night , so I congratulate anyone in the west midland who support the club , as my husband do . the west midland , in many way , lead the country on manufacturing , and it have one of the UK ' s large specialist workforce . whether in automotive , aerospace or the rail supply chain , it be an incredibly important area . we have invest in the west midland investment zone — make Smarter , the High Value Manufacturing Catapult ; it be all there — but we want to keep break down barrier to growth in the area , which be why advanced manufacturing be such a key part of the industrial strategy that we will announce soon . in Telford and the wide west midland , we have a strong and proud british manufacturing base , as the Minister have just outline . one of the big challenge that I hear from business be the uneven playing field between we and the rest of the world on pay rate and regulation . clearly , no one want a race to the bottom , so will the Government back british business to ensure that we sell more , make more and do that in the west midland and in Telford in particular ? my hon . friend be absolutely right ; we do not want a race to the bottom . advanced manufacturing job in the west midland be well pay for a reason : there be a very highly skilled workforce and we want to protect and grow that . he be right that there be more that we can do . some £ 2 billion be set aside in the Budget for the automative sector and just shy of £ 1 billion for aerospace . that will help ; however , we can far reduce the barrier , whether around regulation , planning or trading and export , and we be work as fast as we can to do just that . in Staffordshire and the west midland , we be the only part of the country that be a net exporter of manufacture good . the threat from Trump on tariff could have a significant impact on manufacturer right across Staffordshire and the west midland . what action be the Government take to ensure that we will continue to export our world - lead product ? the right hon . Gentleman be right that the west midland be a big exporter to many different country , include the US and other . of course , we will keep talk with the US , as the Secretary of State have be do , and will ensure that we be stand up for british industry and do the right thing . regulatory Environment what step his Department be take to improve the regulatory environment . the regulatory environment do not work as well as it should . unnecessary red tape be choke competitiveness , create unnecessary burden for business and put up barrier to growth . that be why we be introduce a government - wide target to reduce the administrative cost of regulation by 25 % by the end of this Parliament . that will be support by a baseline exercise to understand the administrative cost of regulation to business . the Prime Minister will set out more detail later today . this be just the beginning ; detail of our ambitious action plan to reform the regulatory landscape will be set out shortly . over eight year and four Prime Ministers , the last Conservative Government commission review after review into UK corporate governance and audit reform , and deliver absolutely nothing . for UK plc to be globally competitive , we need robust corporate governance framework which balance the need of investor and society for information with the administrative burden on company . will the Minister update the House on what progress his Department be make on bring forward an audit reform and corporate governance Bill ? as my hon . friend be right to recognise , this issue have be around for some time , and the Government have announce their intention to publish a draft audit reform and corporate governance Bill for scrutiny in this session . investor and the public need access to truthful reporting from our most important business on their finance and related issue . my Department continue to progress that important work , and a timetable for the publication of the Bill will be confirm in the usual way for draft legislation in due course . since leave the European Union , we have be diverge progressively and passively — not make an active decision to diverge because it be good for we , but because we can not keep up with the number of regulation come through the European Union . that have be particularly disadvantageous for energy trading . what conversation have the Minister have with Government colleague around align with the EU on emission trading ? that be an important question . the Minister with responsibility for emission trading , my hon . friend the Member for Croydon West ( Sarah Jones ) , be in charge of that matter , and it be one of the discussion we be have as part of the EU reset . High Street Businesses what step he be take to support high street business . what step he be take to support high street business . work across Government , we be determined to revitalise our high street and support the business on they . we be work with industry to create a fairer business rate system that protect the high street and support investment . we have introduce the Crime and Policing Bill , which will give well protection for business and retail worker against assault and theft . our forthcoming small business strategy will set out our plan for further support for small business on the high street and beyond . from 5 be to 10 pm daily , the Patels ' newsagent , off licence and post office be an Acton staple — until Horizon slap it with a £ 123 , 000 demand , and Mrs Patel have a series of mini - stroke . will Ministers look into the fact that their compensation be reject because Mr Patel be the postmaster , and show their love for high - street hero everywhere by attend a tea organise by the all - party parliamentary group for ethnic minority business owner on 3 April ? you be welcome too , Mr Speaker . I be grateful for my hon . friend for raise the case of the Patels . I be keen that any sub - postmaster who be a victim of the Horizon scandal get access to the compensation they rightly deserve as quickly as possible . she will understand that I can not comment on individual case , but if she want to write to I about the specific case , I would be happy to look into it far and to discuss it with she . there be over 70 pub across Bromsgrove and the village . one of they — the Queens Head — face a staggering £ 42 , 000 annual increase in the cost of business rate and national insurance contribution as a result of choice make by this Government . that be on top of increase concern around a banter ban . will the Minister confirm that nobody will be eject from a pub or hospitality venue for share a joke , and will he outline what step he be take to support pub , rather than put they out of business ? I note in pass that 10 , 000 pub close their door under the Conservative Government , so I do not think the pub industry be look to the hon . Gentleman ' s party for guidance go forward . on the specific he ask about , he will be aware of our plan for business rate reform , which will help and make a significant difference to many pub . on the so - call " banter ban " , I gently suggest that he should not believe everything that he read in the newspaper . pub and restaurant be part of a thriving high street in Doncaster that be know for its iconic nightlife . will the Minister set out what action the Department be take to support hospitality and ensure that high street continue to thrive , and may I invite he to Doncaster to see how nightlife be do properly ? I will give careful consideration to my hon . friend ' s very generous offer . in answer to the hon . member for Bromsgrove ( Bradley Thomas ) I mention business rate reform , which could make a significant difference for many business in the night - time economy . another crucial issue that we want to tackle be the rise crime and antisocial behaviour on our high street . as she will know , the Crime and Policing Bill , which be begin its journey through Parliament , will make a significant difference in that regard . the high street trader John Lewis Partnership be announce its annual result today . it be a highly successful business but this year it will not be pay a dividend to its partner , the workforce , because it have to absorb national insurance cost . do the Minister understand the real impact that NI contribution be have on what his party like to describe as " ordinary work people " ? I say gently to the right hon . Gentleman and his conservative colleague that we have to take the difficult decision in the Budget to increase employer national insurance contribution because of the mess that their party leave the country in . the shadow Secretary of State for Business and Trade , the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) , help to write the Liz Truss Budget that do so much damage to our country — we be try to sort out the mess . the shadow Secretary of State still have not apologise for his part in that fiasco . he should take the opportunity to do so during these question . I call the shadow Minister . yesterday , the owner of the hugely popular Rumsey ' s , which be celebrate 21 year on Wendover high street in my constituency , email I to say : " we estimate the change come in April will add 15 % to our staff cost that we simply don ' t have . therefore we have have to sadly make redundancy , put in a recruitment freeze and implement staff hour cut to offset this . " with real - world testimony like that replicate up and down the country , will the Minister finally acknowledge that an urgent change of course be need to support high street , scrap the employer NI rise , save job and protect community ? I gently say to the hon . Gentleman that it would be interesting to know whether he now regret the enthusiastic support he give the Liz Truss Budget , which do so much damage to our country ' s public finance . our Budget in October last year start the process of sort out those situation . I look with interest at his website recently , which have a " my plan " section . it be completely blank . although that be probably well give that he so strongly support the Liz Truss Budget — there be at least a bit of progress . well , that be no answer to my question whatsoever . it be almost as if Labour Members have not realise that they be in charge and that it be their decision that be have this impact . let I tell the Minister something else that Rumsey ' s report to I : " the reduction in business rate relief will leave I no choice but to raise price simply to break even , far limit growth and accessibility for customer . " I just do not know how much more the Minister need to hear to understand the scale of the problem on our high street . he talk of business rate reform , but the only business rate change we have see be the devastating cut to business rate relief , which be hurt high street now . will he reverse it ? have the hon . Gentleman ' s party be elect , retail , hospitality and leisure relief would have come to an end . we have extend retail , hospitality and leisure relief . we have set out in the Budget our plan to permanently low tax rate for retail , hospitality and leisure property on the high street from 2026 - 27 . we be take measure to tackle crime and antisocial behaviour on the high street , which his party could have do more to tackle but choose not to . we be bring in new legislation to end the immunity for crime on the high street where shoplifter steal good worth £ 200 or less , and we be create a specific offence of violence against retail worker to try to make it easy for business operate on the high street . Minimum and Living Wages what assessment his Department have make of the potential impact of the national minimum wage and national living wage on family in Airdrie and Shotts constituency . what assessment his Department have make of the potential impact of the national minimum wage and national living wage on family . More than 3 million worker be expect to receive a pay rise due to increase to the national minimum wage in April , protect the low pay in society . after our change to the remit , we accept in full the recommendation of the Low Pay Commission , which consider the impact of rate on business , competitiveness , the labour market , the wide economy and the cost of living . our impact assessment be available only by region — estimate by constituency be not available — but the simple truth be that worker in every constituency be well off under this Labour Government . I thank the Secretary of State for that answer . just yesterday , Parliament approve Labour ' s new deal for work people — the big upgrade to worker ' right in a generation . this will see a pay rise for more than 200 , 000 work scot , many in the Airdrie and Shotts constituency , and a marked improvement to term and condition , which will be beneficial to our young workforce . do he agree that with a government commit to improve the pay , term and condition of worker across the country , the work people of Airdrie and Shotts will always get a well deal with Labour ? the plan to make work pay be a core part of our mission to grow the economy , raise living standard and create opportunity for all , and there will be significant benefit for worker in insecure and low - pay job in central Scotland , include in Airdrie and Shotts . this plan be about make people stay in work . it be about make work more secure and more family - friendly , improve living standard and put more money in worker ’ pocket , but it be also about show that politic can work for people who may have give up on this place as somewhere that can improve their living standard , their life and those of their family . for that , I be very proud of this Government . the 6 . 7 % increase in the national living wage in April clearly show that this Labour Government be on the side of work people in North Durham and across the country and be make work pay . can the Minister tell I how many family in north - east England will benefit from the increase in the national living wage and national minimum wage next month ? I thank my hon . friend for his support . around 140 , 000 worker in north - east England will feel the benefit of this direct pay rise . I know his North Durham constituency well — I be no strange to Chester - le - Street — and not only will his constituent get a pay rise , but his local shop , his restaurant , his pub and more will get what they need most of all : customer who have get a bit of money to spend . last Friday , I spend the day visit local shopkeeper in Kelso , many of whom employ their staff on the national minimum wage and the national living wage . their big pressure just now be deal with this Labour Government ' s national insurance hike . they be face a very difficult choice about whether they continue to employ people . what be the message from the Minister to those hard - work local shopkeeper ? the thing I would cite most of all to the hon . member ' s constituent be the doubling of the employment allowance in the Budget and the threshold be remove , which mean that some small business will actually be pay low national insurance contribution than they would have pay before the Budget . however , I never shy away from the fact that the choice we have to make in the Budget be out of necessity , due to the black hole that be leave behind . I be yet to hear any offer from Conservative Members as to how they would fill it . at these question , we will talk about triple compensation for victim of the Post Office Horizon scandal only because the money be there . it be not there under the conservative party . we will talk about money for the steel industry , stand behind that industry . again , money be promise but not deliver . if promise be make , the resource to do those thing have to be there . they be not there under the conservative party . they be under Labour . whether it be the increase in the minimum wage , the increase in employer national insurance , the increase in business rate , or indeed the change make to the Employment Rights Bill , all of these measure collectively be negatively penalise many business across my constituency , whether in Keighley , Ilkley or far afield . as a result , redundancy be have to be make , or the price of product and service be have to increase , and these business can not absorb the additional increase that this Labour Government be put on they . do the Government undertake any economic impact assessment of what all of these measure collectively would have on hard - work business across my constituency ? as I have say to Conservative Members before , of course we be very sensitive to the aggregate impact of government policy , because , frankly , have observe the conservative Governments of the previous 14 year , I think they completely miss this point and at many time have different Departments do completely oppose thing . I want to say something specific on business rate . no business rate relief be plan have the conservative party win the election . the reduction to 40 % be an increase in what be in the national account — again , short - term decision for short - term , partisan , political benefit ; no serious plan for the future . the hon . Gentleman will have see the figure from the Insolvency Service this week , which be very interesting . they show that few people have be make redundant over the past 12 month than in the year before , so I be afraid that the doom - monger of the conservative party have be prove absolutely wrong by the statistic that we have . product Safety Regulations what step his Department be take to help microbusinesse comply with the general product safety regulation . the Government be commit to support microbusinesse to comply with the general product safety regulation . for Northern Ireland , we have publish additional guidance for business , and we will publish an update in the come week , in the light of feedback we have receive . we will continue to engage with business to ensure that they can trade freely across the UK . business target the EU market may use the Government ' s export support service . since October 2024 , the Department ' s export academy have deliver eight free online GPSR training session to almost 5 , 000 attendee . I thank the Minister for his answer . my constituent George Stevens run a microbusiness in lydd make handcraft string instrument ; it have be run for over 30 year and he have many EU customer . he be deeply worried about Brexit - relate red tape , which be hold back his EU export . can the Minister give he an assurance that , as a result of the propose measure , he will now find it easy to trade with the EU ? microbusinesse such as that of Mr Stevens be central to the Government ' s growth mission . we be committed to strengthen our relationship with the EU and to tackle trade barrier and friction , and we regularly engage directly with business and their representative organisation to understand the difficulty they face . our export support service help small and medium - sized enterprise navigate opportunity in EU market and get the practical help they need to do so . for example , the Unlock Europe programme , which be launch in December as part of the export academy , offer practical guidance to help UK business enhance their export potential to the EU . our country ' s very high electricity cost be another huge problem face business in my constituency and nationally . reintegrate our power market with Europe ' s through the single - day ahead coupling system would cost our country nothing , save cost for business , reduce carbon dioxide and make our power market more efficient . will the Minister take fast step to reintegrate our electricity market with those of our european neighbour ? I thank the hon . member for his tangential question relate to GPSR . he make an important point about energy cost , and we be work closely with the EU on how to build on that , and of course the industrial strategy will also be look very closely at how energy cost can be bring down for business . Employment Regulation if he will take step to reduce employment regulation for business . the plan to make work pay be central to our plan for change , to grow the economy , raise living standard and create opportunity for all . it will tackle low pay , poor working condition and job insecurity , create long - term growth and investment to support business . insight gain from our ongoing engagement with business will help we ensure proportionate and effective policy . our plan to make work pay will ensure a level playing field , so that employer that be try to do the right thing be not undercut . I send a survey about how the Government have treat business to every register company in the Weald of Kent , and they be terrified . some 80 % of they — four in five — be less likely to hire follow soar taxis and the truly dire Employment Rights Bill . the Regulatory Policy Committee find the Government ' s own impact assessment for the Bill not fit for purpose . will the Minister conduct a proper assessment of the damage the Bill will do , or should I send he mine ? I be always grateful for advice . if the hon . Lady be conduct survey , she might look at the one that say that 76 of her constituent support the plan in the Bill to bring in day one right for sick pay . the importance of this Bill can not be overstate . we have a plan to bring business up to a standard where work be respect and people have security and dignity . if the hon . Lady can not understand that , then she need to get out a bit more . Trade Union Recognition what step his Department be take to support trade union recognition in the workplace . the Government be commit to simplify the process and law around trade union recognition so that work people have a more meaningful right to organise through trade union — of course , I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests in this respect . through the Employment Rights Bill , we be reform the process for statutory recognition application ; with exist threshold present too high a hurdle in modern workplace , they be increasingly fragmented . we be also take step to strengthen protection against unfair practice during the recognition process , which we debate at length yesterday . in January , Bidfood , a food wholesaler and major employer in my constituency , announce overnight that it would derecognise the GMB and Unite the union , remove the ability of thousand of worker across the country to collectively bargain through their trade union . the union fear that Bidfood worker could now be leave at risk of fire and rehire before protection in this Government ' s Employment Rights Bill come into force . do the Minister agree that employer should not be try to dodge protection under the Government ' s plan to make work pay , and will he join I in support the GMB and Unite as they seek to protect their worker at Bidfood ? my hon . friend will understand that I can not comment on individual case , but I be deeply trouble by what he have say . I can be clear that the Government be determined to reset industrial relation , so that employer and trade union work together in partnership rather than in conflict , as we have hear . we encourage all employer to engage with union in the spirit of co - operation and collaboration . work in that way benefit employer and worker alike . as he know , the Employment Rights Bill will end the unscrupulous practice of fire and rehire , which have no place in a modern economy and workplace , so if any company be think of do that , it should think again . I very much welcome the Minister ' s response . after I work in my mum and dad ' s shop , I join the firm Henry Denny and I be require to join the union . I be not sure about join , but when I do so I find out that the union back I as a worker against the employer whenever they be bring in thing that be wrong . so I encourage everybody who join a workforce to join a union , because it will protect they whenever they need help . the hon . member could not have put it well . he have explain the benefit of trade union membership , which be something that member on the conservative Benches clearly do not understand . Hospitality Industry I call the Father of the House . what step he be take to support the hospitality industry . what step he be take to support the hospitality industry . we be create a fairer business rate system , reduce alcohol duty on qualify draught product , and our forthcoming small business strategy will set out our plan to far support small business on the high street and beyond . in addition , through the Hospitality Sector Council , we be address , with business , strategic issue relate to high street regeneration , skill , sustainability and productivity , and we have recently save the pint . obviously the Minister be work very hard , but he look a bit tired , so may I offer he some Lincolnshire hospitality ? will he come and stay for a glorious weekend in one of our farm cottage , to enjoy our great sky and brace air , and help our distressed farmer ? frankly , they need the income . the problem be that the Government have abolish the furnished holiday let scheme , which be a tremendous encouragement for the countryside . I do not expect an answer now , but will he consider approach his right hon . friend the Chancellor to see if we can reinstate that in the Budget , to help our farmer and the countryside ? unusually for the Conservative party , the right hon . Gentleman have make an extremely generous offer . I be almost as tempt by that as by the offer from my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster Central ( Sally Jameson ) to visit Doncaster . I be happy to look at the issue he raise and I will write to he with more detail . the Crusty Cob bakery have be a constant in east Devon for the past 55 year , but last week the family - run business close the door on all nine of its shop , make over 100 local people redundant . the owner state a panoply of issue , from manufacture cost to reduce high street footfall and energy price , but the kicker be the decision that this Business Secretary ' s party have make to slam company with increase to the national living wage and employer national insurance contribution . the effect of this Labour Government ' s decision be set in and literally destroy work family business . will the Business Secretary and the Minister please give a message to the Crusty Cob team who have just lose their job ? I understand that this will be an extremely worrying time for employee of the Crusty Cob and their family . I gently say to the hon . Gentleman that we be offer a 40 % discount to retail , hospitality and leisure property as part of our business rate package . we be go to reform business rate more substantially , with a permanently low multipli in 2026 that , while it clearly will not help the Crusty Cob and its employee , will help other business on the high street . I be slightly surprised that the hon . Gentleman should be so opposed to an increase in the living wage — I do not know whether that be his party ' s policy . I also gently remind he of the datum from the Office for National Statistics , which my right hon . friend the Secretary of State point out , show more people in job this year compare with last year . Post Office Horizon : Compensation what step he be take to ensure that compensation be pay to people impact by the Post Office Horizon scandal in a timely manner . in the past eight month we have treble the total amount of compensation pay and ensure that more than 2 , 300 victim who have as yet receive nothing have now have some financial redress . we be make up - front , fix - sum offer and interim payment where possible to speed up the delivery of redress . there be still a lot more to do , though , and we remain committed to ensure swift and fair redress for every postmaster affect by the Horizon scandal . I thank the Minister for that answer . he and I will agree that the Post Office Horizon scandal be one of the great miscarriage of justice in modern time , but the problem with the Post Office and its injustice extend far beyond that . some 21 case relate to the precursor system , Capture , which bear the same hallmark as those in the Horizon scandal , have be refer to the Criminal Cases Review Commission . I be afraid that the ccrc be famous for take year to come to obvious decision , so can the Minister tell I that it will deal with this in month ? if not , will his Department intervene directly ? the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to raise the issue of Capture . as he will know , we have publish our response to the independent Kroll report on the Capture software issue and the way in which the Post Office respond to the datum that come out of it . we have be meet sub - postmaster who use the Capture system and who be the victim in that regard to talk through a redress scheme with they . we be also work closely with the Criminal Cases Review Commission and have make it clear to the Post Office that it must co - operate with request from the ccrc so that we can speed up its deliberation on the 21 case . I recently meet a constituent who be a former postmaster affect by the Horizon scandal . he have apply for compensation but feel that the process be take too long , with unreasonable ask . give the legal ruling that postmaster should be afford the benefit of the doubt , what step be the Department take to ensure that compensation claim be process fairly and without delay that could far affect the victim ? as my hon . friend will know , we inherit a compensation process that be perceive by many sub - postmaster as be slow , legalistic and adversarial , so we have already take a series of step to try to speed thing up , particularly in try to get out more fix - sum payment — for example , we be move in more staff to support work on the compensation process . if she would like I to look in more detail at her constituency case , I be very happy to do so . I call the shadow Minister . the Business Secretary meet recently in Japan with Fujitsu , which develop the Horizon system and have offer to contribute to the compensation for victim . can the Minister tell the House how much the Secretary of State have ask it to contribute , so that taxpayer be not on the hook for £ 1 billion ? the hon . Lady be right to reference the discussion that my right hon . Friend have with the chief executive officer of Fujitsu . that company have agree to begin talk about its contribution to the cost of compensation . she will understand that we also need to wait for Sir Wyn Williams ' inquiry to conclude , and for his recommendation regard compensation from Fujitsu to be hear and understand . I be sure she will also understand that I be not go to give a running commentary on the discussion with Fujitsu , but I welcome the fact that it have agree to begin talk . small Business Support what step his Department be take to support small business . what step his Department be take to support small business . small business need a well deal — certainly well than the one they get from the last government — and our small business strategy , which be due this year , be design to do that . we have already provide more support through the British Business Bank ; we have work with the Federation of Small Businesses to take action on issue such as late payment and retail crime ; and we have announce the creation of the new business growth service , which aim to transform business support service . later today I will attend a small business summit in Sussex to progress those plan and meet small business leader . too many small and medium - sized defence business in my community struggle to access the banking and finance facility they need , often on the basis of self - impose ethical criterion . will the Business Secretary join I in welcome how many investor and financial institution have respond to the campaign I be lead with my hon . friend the Member for York Outer ( Mr Charters ) and 100 other labour parliamentarian , call on our bank and fund manager to broaden their approach to defence investment ? will he call on investor to take action so that we can defend our country , support Ukraine , and fire up our industrial base ? I agree 100 % with my hon . friend and thank she very much for her question . she will know that my Department , alongside the Treasury and the Ministry of Defence , convene a roundtable in December to listen to these perspective , and now all three Departments be work together to ensure that the problem she have articulate do not occur . it be essential that the british people do not think that the substantial , significant and historic investment in defence that this Government be make come in some way at the expense of domestic prosperity . there be no prosperity without security , but we should also acknowledge the tremendous economic contribution make by our defence sector — there be not a foreign and domestic split in that regard . I thank my hon . friend for her outstanding leadership in galvanise parliamentary support for that campaign , and I hope it will have unanimous agreement in every part of the House . as the Secretary of State be aware , the ceramics industry , include in my constituency of Stoke - on - Trent South , be face immense competition from imported counterfeit good . many of those good contain false backstamp that mislead consumer and — as the GMB union have raise with I — threaten great british company such as Dunoon , Duchess and many other . will the Minister meet I again to discuss in more detail create offence and table regulation to deal with import counterfeit ceramic good ? my Department have a very strong relationship with the ceramics sector through the Energy Intensive Users Group . we have regular meeting with that group , and I would also like to mention the British Ceramic Confederation and our old friend Rob Flello , who be a strong voice for the sector . there be many challenge for the ceramics sector , not least decarbonisation , but on the subject of consumer protection , it be firmly against UK consumer law for firm — wherever they be locate — to give consumer false information , such as through fake product marking . we have strengthen the regime in this regard , with new enforcement power for the Competition and Markets Authority come into force next month , but I will of course get my hon . friend any meeting she require . a constituent in Chorleywood recently contact I after need an emergency locksmith due to a broken key . initially quote £ 40 over the phone , she be later charge £ 1 , 460 , and be only give the new key after make that payment . while I applaud this Government ' s ambition to reduce regulation , can we ensure that there be appropriate regulation so that consumer be not unfairly overcharge , as in this instance ? I , too , have hear the kind of story that the hon . Gentleman have articulate — there be definitely concern in that regard . broadly , the Government ' s regulation agenda be not necessarily about deregulation , but about effective and proportionate regulation . I feel that our regulatory sector have grow a lot in recent year , and that it do not always compare well to those of other country in term of timeliness and business response . that be the agenda we be pursue , but I will certainly write to the hon . Gentleman about the issue he have raise , which be very relevant . I appreciate the opportunity to do so and thank he for raise they today . many family be support by the work of my constituent , Alison and Kevin , who run a small care business . they tell I that they already operate on tight margin in a sector under huge pressure . the hike in employer national insurance contribution will force they to make tough decision on staffing and simply reduce the amount of care they can offer . Kevin and Alison rightly say that this hike make no sense at a time when the Government tell we that they want to move to community care provision and get people out of hospital . do the Secretary of State not agree ? I thank the hon . member for her question , and I thank Alison and Kevin for their important work . we already talk about the difficult choice that the Government face and the unenviable choice that have to be make . Health and social care be a beneficiary of the additional revenue that need to be raise to meet some of the challenge we face , but we be not casual about the impact of that , and we recognise the pressure that come from that . I would say that I do not agree . taxis have to apply to every sector , and we can not carve out certain sector . however , I appreciate the pressure that she articulate . that be why the rest of the Government ' s agenda be set to address all those factor . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . small business be the backbone of the british economy . up and down the country , we have success story of innovative start - up and family - run business that should be part of the Government ' s plan to get Britain grow again . under the Conservatives , the number of small business in my constituency decrease by 360 between 2021 and 2024 . the Tories mess up our national and local economy . be the Minister concern that his Government ' s national insurance rise will damage the economy , just as the Conservatives do ? if we be list the difficult thing that small business have to deal with in the previous 14 year , we would be here for most of the day and the weekend , if we be be honest . whether it be how the Conservatives handle Brexit , the mini - Budget or austerity , we could go on and on . I say to the hon . member that we be not casual about what we have have to ask of business because of the unenviable situation we inherit , but the fundamental of the UK be incredibly strong in political stability and openness to the world , and we have the change we be make to planning , skill , regulation and energy to make sure we be deliver . National Insurance Contributions : sme what recent assessment he have make of the potential impact of change to employer national insurance contribution on small and medium - sized enterprise . the Treasury publish a tax information and impact note in November 2024 , alongside the introduction of the Bill contain the employer national insurance contribution change . it set out the impact of the policy on the Exchequer and the impact on business , and that approach be consistent with previous tax change . the impact I hear from sme in my constituency , predominantly in the visitor economy , be that they be anticipate cut the hour of part - time staff or lay they off and reduce the number of seasonal employee that they will take on . will the Minister take those concern seriously and work with Ministers in the Scottish Government to ensure that the legitimate concern of sme in my constituency do not blossom into a full blow crisis of confidence ? I be always happy to work with the Scottish Government and other devolve government on how we can improve the business environment . I be sure the right hon . Member will join I in encourage the Government in Scotland to mirror the change we have make to business rate relief . give the sizeable increase in the scottish budget , it be somewhat surprising that the SNP have not be willing to support the retail sector through an extension of retail hospitality relief . International Investment : Scotland what step he be take to help increase level of international investment in Scotland . the Government be commit to support investment in Scotland in line with our growth mission . the Prime Minister recently announce that the National Wealth Fund will provide £ 200 million of investment in new opportunity in Grangemouth in particular . that announcement come alongside the recently announce £ 55 million grant for the Port of Cromarty Firth , the two investment zone receive £ 80 million over the next five year and our expand Office for Investment . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for that answer . the National Wealth Fund have recently invest £ 43 . 5 million in Pulpex Ltd to construct a sustainable packaging facility near Glasgow , which be a welcome move and will support job and growth . what further measure be plan to attract similar green industry investment in community such as my own in North Lanarkshire , which have Scotland ' s fast - grow economy ? my hon . friend be a tireless advocate for the community of Coatbridge and Bellshill . I can assure he that the National Wealth Fund ' s strategic partnership trial will see each local authority within the Glasgow city region , include North Lanarkshire , be invite to submit project proposal , include for project focus on , I hesitate to say , green job in Coatbridge . Topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . my Department work night and day to deliver our plan for change by make Britain the good place to invest , work and do business . this Government have provide political stability and openness to the world , and we be continually improve the business environment . since the last Business and Trade question , we have publish a new steer for the Competition and Markets Authority so that it have growth and investment in mind , and more pro - business regulatory reform will follow . in Delhi last month , I relaunche our trade negotiation with India , and I have just return from Tokyo , where the Foreign Secretary and I announce a first - of - its - kind industrial strategy partnership with Japan . we be also ensure that our " make work pay " reform deliver for business and worker . finally , we have engage closely with the new US Administration , include Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnick and the new US trade representative , Jamieson Greer . the new US trade policy be challenge , but we believe that our decision to engage and seek potential agreement on a new economic deal between the UK and the US offer we an opportunity to ensure that the UK be the well - connect market in the world . business across Beaconsfield , Marlow and the south Bucks village be face crippling cost from the Government ' s national insurance tax raid and the Employment Rights Bill . can the Secretary of State reassure or advise my business ? should they stop hire , cut staff , increase price , or all of the above ? I would say that business in the hon . Lady ' s constituency should contact their local Conservative MP and say , " what be your plan ? " because I think we have have three oral question session where this have broadly be the only thing that the Conservatives have to say . I genuinely want to know : what be the plan to pay for Post Office compensation ? what be the plan to pay for the steel industry ? when the Conservatives commission the public sector pay body with the remit that they be give , get the finding back , hide they and do not tell the british people during the general election campaign , what be the plan ? how would they have reconcile that ? the small business leader , and business of every size , in the hon . Lady ' s constituency know how to make difficult decision . what — order . look , this be get ridiculous . we be on topical , and that be the bad example I have see of an answer to a topical . the south - west have a huge number of innovative start - up and scale - up business , but we attract only about 3 % of private equity and venture capital funding per year . what be the Department do to ensure that foreign direct investor be aware of , and have access to , the fantastic business infrastructure opportunity that we have in Exeter and across the south - west ? I see many incredible business when I go to the Exeter business park last year . when I be in Saudi Arabia in January , I be with a range of business that be promote investment , include many from the south - west . there be more that we can do , but there be some brilliant people there who be do brilliant thing . I think we can go far , and I be certainly very happy to work with my hon . friend on that . I call the shadow Secretary of State . how have we get to this point ? after 35 week as Trade Secretary , 18 week since the US election , and an entire month since steel and aluminium tariff be first announce , the Secretary of State be only now go to sit down with the Secretary of Commerce of our close ally . while he have be correct his cv , steelworker and business be hurt today . this be a colossal failure of trade policy on his watch . why have it take so long , and when can we expect an agreement ? the hon . Gentleman may have not see the news recently , but the UK , lead by our Prime Minister , have have the good engagement of any country with the new US Administration . be it not good to see again a british Prime Minister who be respect on the world stage and deliver for Britain ? we have have tremendous engagement with the new US Administration , and I be look forward to meet they in person next week . once again , no answer come there forth . over 1 million job in this country depend on trade with the United States , include thousand of job in our steel industry . the Secretary of State do not know when he be go to get a deal . will he publish his red line for that deal , his objective and what he hope to achieve from meeting next week ? on steel and aluminium tariff , the US Administration ' s position be that there be no exemption for anybody — that be across the board . I think they recognise the very strong case that we have , but that be their position . no , I will not publish my negotiate red line before a negotiation . frankly , that be the bad advice I have ever hear in the House of Commons . the conservative party fall out with the EU , would not deal with China and could not do a deal with India . it fall out with the United Arab Emirates and could not do a deal with the Gulf . it get nothing out of the US . it do deal with Australia and New Zealand , then disown they . we will take no lesson from the Conservatives . social enterprise contribute 3 . 4 % of gdp , and town such as Leigh and Atherton benefit greatly from they . will the Minister outline what the Department be do to support social enterprise and co - operative so they can contribute to the growth agenda in the UK ? my hon . friend be a great champion of the social enterprise sector . she will know that we be committed to double the size of the co - op and mutual sector . we recently meet the recently launch mutual and co - op business council to begin work with business on our plan to expand the co - op and mutual sector . she may also be aware that our social enterprise boost fund be currently spend some £ 4 million on help to support social enterprise that be already up and run . I call the Liberal Democrats spokesperson . if the Government have to push forward with retaliatory measure against the United States for its steel tariff , they must strike at the political ally of the President to meaningfully move on the conversation . can the Secretary of State confirm whether Elon Musk ' s Tesla be be consider as a potential target for retaliatory measure ? we reserve the right to take any action in response to any change to our trading relationship , but I do think we can look to the opportunity for the UK , which be great than for any other country , to get to an agreement that improve our term of trade with the US . I reserve the right to take any action , but I think we can look forward in a positive way to improve that trading relationship , and that right now be my message and focus . I call Chris Bloore . rise — rise — I call Chris Bloore . [ laughter . ] thank you , Mr Speaker . fly by Nite haulage , base in Redditch , be trust to deliver by the big name in music , tv and theatre . however , post - Brexit rule on visa and work permit be damage the creative industry ' opportunity on the continent . would the Minister agree to meet I to discuss how we can break the logjam and support british success story such as Fly by Nite ? it be Chris Bloore ' s turn . I be follow the Order Paper , but I be go from side to side . Chris Law will come afterwards ; he be not next . there be many member call Chris . I thank my hon . friend for his question . as he will know , the creative industry be part of our industrial strategy . we be hugely proud of their soft power and economic impact , and of course we will get he the meeting he request . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . some 66 % of hospitality firm say they will have to cut staff or staff hour , 75 % say they will cut investment , and 97 % say they will increase price because of the Chancellor ' s manifesto - break national insurance increase . what assessment have the Minister make of the number of worker be drag into national insurance contribution for the first time , and if the Government must continue with this disastrous policy , will they at least delay it for 12 month to bring it into line with the introduction of business rate reform ? we have have one or two question on this topic , and the hon . Member will therefore not be surprise by my answer . I gently point out that the difficult decision we take on employer ' s national insurance contribution in the Budget be a direct result of the mess the Conservative party , which he support so enthusiastically , leave for this Government . the big six supermarket be act like a cartel , force unfair price on farmer and pursue unscrupulous practice such as farm washing . do the Minister agree with I that we should look again at the Groceries Code Adjudicator and consider whether it be fit for purpose ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . the Groceries Code Adjudicator ' s annual survey show high level of compliance by the supermarket . however , a statutory review will actually commence next month , and I would encourage she and all stakeholder to contribute to it . now it be Chris Law ' s turn . thank you , Mr Speaker . the US President say that the EU be create to " screw over the US " . however , while the EU stand up for its economy and impose a $ 28 billion counter - tariff , the UK be be screw by the US , which have make it clear that the UK will not be an exception to its levy , despite the Prime Minister ' s plead . will the Secretary of State tell I whether the Government be content to remain a bridge between the EU and the US if it be a bridge that the US continue to walk all over , risk the UK economy with every single step ? the simple position be that we will represent the UK ' s national interest in this matter . the US have objection about its significant deficit in manufacture good with China and the EU , but that be not the relationship between the US and the UK , so there be a chance for the UK to pursue a different policy — one that produce great benefit for every part of the UK than perhaps be available to other country . of course we be cognisant of the overall impact — no one want to see this type of turmoil in the global economy — but our job be to deliver for the UK , and that be exactly what we be focus on do . rural business in North West Leicestershire highlight the lack of accessible public transport , include have no passenger rail , as a barrier to attract new employee and to growth . what conversation have the Minister have with the Department for Transport about the barrier that rural business be face ? we know that rural business want to see more investment in bus service and well transport infrastructure . my hon . friend will appreciate that the Chancellor announce in the Budget some £ 650 million - plus in funding for local transport , which be design to support everyday journey and improve transport connection . I be sure , too , that she will welcome the well bus Bill , which be come in to give local authority — Order . I call Seamus Logan . Scotland ' s good export to the US be worth over £ 3 . 7 billion last year , and scotch whisky export be £ 971 million — the large slice by value . if the Prime Minister can not protect the UK and scottish steel industry , how can scottish people be sure that he will be able to protect our whisky industry from malicious US tariff ? I can assure the House that we be in regular touch with the Scotch Whisky Association . we fully appreciate the significance and importance of that industry not just to Scotland but to the UK . as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State say , we be well serve by a serious Prime Minister in these serious time , which afford we the opportunity for a dialogue in trade frankly not available to other country . I call the Chair of the Select Committee , Liam Byrne . President Trump ' s new tariff be double trouble for Britain ' s steel and aluminium supplier . they will dent £ 350 million of sale , but they also risk swamp the UK with over - subsidise chinese steel divert from America . what be the Secretary of State ' s game plan now to redouble defence for our UK metal maker ? I be incredibly grateful to the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee for that question . he be right to say that the challenge here be not just the direct trade we have with the US , but the impact of trade diversion . he know we already have 16 anti - dumping , anti - subsidy measure in place against 14 separate product category . once the annual tariff - free quota be hit , a 25 % tariff apply to those . I can tell he and the House today , though , that I will support UK Steel ' s application to the Trade Remedies Authority for a review of the steel safeguard — we do have to think about what will be come — and a new one for the aluminium sector . I be sure that Ministers will join I in welcome the £ 90 million investment by dairy firm Arla in the plant in my constituency , which will create up to 90 job . do not that reinforce the fact that agriculture remain at the heart of the rural economy in constituency such as mine ? should not the Government be support that industry , rather than try to destroy it ? I can assure the House that we do welcome the investment of which the right hon . Gentleman speak . speak on behalf of the constituency of East Lothian , I recognise fully the importance of the rural economy and agriculture ' s contribution thereto . that be why we be in regular dialogue with the NFU and other key stakeholder . together with the Startup Coalition , I recently hold a roundtable with brilliant local start - up work out of Future Space at the University of the West of England . issue that they have be face for a long time include access the same opportunity and support for growth as large business . would the Minister please set out what support his Department will be provide so that our very small business can thrive too ? one of the big issue that small business want to scale up face be access to finance . we be actively work across Government on what else we can do to support business to get access to the finance they need , include through the British Business Bank . in my constituency , a planning moratorium have be in place for more than five year due to water pollution , with an estimate effect on the local construction industry of half a billion pound , despite the fact that new house building be a minute proportion of the problem . will the Secretary of State meet I and representative of the Herefordshire construction industry to try to find a solution to this devastating problem ? the frustration that come across in the hon . Lady ' s question relate to exactly the sort of problem the Government be fix . I would be more than happy to work with she and any Secretary of State or Department necessary to unblock that for she . will the Minister outline what step the Department be take to help increase trade with the Asia Pacific , and in particular the Philippines , where a major local company in my constituency , Beaver Bridges , be hope to expand and grow significantly , with the trade support of this government ? I happen to be meet the Philippine Government next week , although alas in London , not in Manila . the Department be work hard to agree a Government - to - government financing framework partnership . that be just part of the work we have under way . if I can be of direct assistance to my hon . friend and to her local business , I will of course be happy to speak to she . the invest in woman taskforce aim to drive investment in female - power business at every stage . that include put more money in the hand of female investor , as we know that woman back woman . do the Minister agree that one solution to tackle the gender disparity in investment decision - make role be to set a minimum level of female representation for all investment committee that receive British Business Bank funding ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . there be a strong correlation between the proportion of woman on an investment committee and the proportion of female founder receive investment . my Department lead on the investing in woman code , whose 270 signatory commit to support female entrepreneurship . one of the key metric we check be the gender balance on investment committee and investment team . I be pleased to say that the code signatory significantly outperform the wide market in their support for female founder . investment fund back by the British Business Bank be expect to sign up to the code and the bank itself be a signatory . over 100 job have be lose in Falkirk since September due the previous Government ' s failure to keep their commitment to the bus manufacturing sector . we need a plan for bus manufacturing . have the Minister engage with the Department for Transport , the bus manufacturing industry or regional mayor , prior to launch the UK bus manufacturing expert panel ? my hon . Friend ask a very good question . I be very pleased that the Department for Transport today launch the new UK bus manufacturing expert panel . we need to support our bus manufacturing , both for the transition to net zero and for build our business in the UK . I be very happy to work with he on that . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we the forthcoming business ? I shall . Monday 17 March — remain stage of the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill ( day one ) . Tuesday 18 March — remain stage of the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill ( day two ) . Wednesday 19 March — consideration of Lords amendment to the National Insurance Contributions ( secondary Class 1 Contributions ) Bill , follow by Opposition day ( first allotted day , second part ) . debate on a motion in the name of the official Opposition . subject to be announce . Thursday 20 March — general debate on knife crime among child and young people , follow by a general debate on coastal community . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 21 March — the House will not be sit . the provisional business for the week commence 24 March will include : Monday 24 March — Second reading of the Planning and Infrastructure Bill . Tuesday 25 March — if necessary , consideration of Lords amendment , follow by consideration of Lords amendment to the great british Energy Bill , follow by consideration of Lords amendment to the Terrorism ( Protection of Premises ) Bill , follow by a motion to approve the draft National Minimum Wage ( Amendment ) Regulations 2025 . Wednesday 26 March — my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer will make her spring statement , follow by remain stage of the Tobacco and Vapes Bill . Thursday 27 March — general debate on St Patrick ' s Day and Northern Irish affair , follow by general debate on the 10th anniversary of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 28 March — private member ' Bills . I be sure the whole House will want to join I in recognise and thank the salvage and nature recovery specialist who be even now scramble to clear up after the disastrous collision in the North sea . they say a conservative be a socialist who have be mug by reality . if that be so , we be witness the extraordinary sight of a Prime Minister who be be visibly mug by reality in slow motion before our very eye . the Government ' s brand of socialism start well from their point of view , if disastrously for the country : we have the union pay - off , the rapid settlement of pay dispute in the public sector — for zero apparent efficiency benefit — and a heavily tax - and - spend Budget . the Chancellor be even so bold , as member will recall , as to announce to the CBI that she would not be raise taxis or increase debt over the course of the Government . as she say : " I ' m clear … I ' m not come back with more borrowing or more taxis " . however , the Budget start to unravel almost as soon as it be publish . we have the bizarre sight of a Government who be ever more committed to talk about growth while club growth to death across a variety of sector : through the national insurance rise and the £ 5 billion burden of the Employment Rights Bill , of course , but also through their loss of credibility in the market , which have push up gilt yield by 25 % since September . great British Energy be announce , and do nothing . the Government make an unsuccessful attempt to claim credit for the achievement of the newly rebrande National Wealth Fund , which have be set up only week before . the system of infrastructure monitoring and planning have be dismantle , and there have be no news for three month on the decision on small modular reactor , which be due on 1 December or thereabout . can the Leader of the House update the House on when we can expect that decision ? then President Trump get elect , despite — or perhaps because of — the special SWAT team of labour activist send over to campaign for his rival , and then the mugging by reality really begin . the Energy Secretary be force to pare back his ruinously expensive zero - carbon energy plan ; the Prime Minister have to announce his plan for change ; the Government be force to accelerate their defence spending plan in order to address the situation in Ukraine ; and so it continue . this week , we have hear of the Government ' s so - call Operation Chainsaw — or should that be butter knife ? — to reshape the civil service . next week , we will have hasty and almost certainly ill thought through cut to welfare . Labour be red under the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) , become a gentle cerise for voter at the general election and , now that reality be set in , it be a pleasing shade of purple , with more and more patch of blue . the Prime Minister and the Government be become more conservative by the day . in sharp contrast , it be the Government ' s policy towards rural area that be most striking . we have see the family farm tax and the disproportionate effect on hospice and social care service in rural area arise from the rise in national insurance . now , in the same week , we have see new compulsory purchase power to seize farmland and the abrupt and unexpected end of the sustainable farming incentive scheme . the Government be simultaneously reduce farm income , threaten farm holding and force the sale of family farm through their inheritance tax change . I be sad to say that even the £ 35 million allocate by the previous Government to clean up the River Wye — one of the natural glory of this country — have be cut to just £ 1 million . the Labour message be clear : do not be a farmer . do not feed the country . do not give we food security . do not work every hour God send , whatever the weather — we do not care . the Leader of the House have be very clear that it be her policy not to answer opposition question , or even to answer question about her policy of not answer question . she ignore my question yet again last week , but perhaps she can have a go at these question now . why have the Government take such a punitive approach to the countryside ? be they do so deliberately , or be it just by accident ? finally , will she come to visit some farmer in Herefordshire with I so that she can see the actual effect of these policy for herself ? we will throw in some magnificent Shepherds or Rowlestone ice cream , as well , if that will make any difference . I start by congratulate young carer across the country on their day of action yesterday . I know the whole House will be as hopeful as everybody else in the country about Ukraine , as talk continue this week and over the weekend . I be sure we all welcome the resumption of military aid and intelligence sharing between the US and Ukraine . this really be an important moment for peace in the region and the ball be now firmly in Russia ' s court . the shadow Leader of the House spend most of his speech last week and this week give a long lecture about why I do not answer his question while actually fail to ask I very many at all . we have a couple of small question today at the end of another diatribe that , as ever , take we through various myth and misinformation . he will know that this Government have to take some very difficult decision to deal with an economy that no Government would want to deal with : high and rise debt ; stagnant growth ; low productivity ; low wage ; and public service on their knee . that be why we have have to take some difficult decision to fix those foundation , but , most importantly , to get that investment back into our public service , as we desire to do . the shadow Leader of the House again raise the point about national insurance , but I must point out to the House that he be a Treasury Minister when his Government raise national insurance not only on business , but on work people as well . I be sorry to tell he that this Government absolutely back british farmer . we be do what we can to support they : we have increase the farming budget to £ 5 billion over two year , which be far more than the Conservative Government ever do ; we have set out a new deal for farmer ; and we be invest in our flood defence . we also have a plan for sustainable food , and he know well than anybody that the sustainable farming incentive have a capped budget , which his government do not announce . they fail to spend any of it , and , give the action that we have take , it have be oversubscribe in the meantime . that be why we have close that fund , but we be set out a new fund after the spring statement next week . I might give the shadow Leader of the House an alternative point of view on recent history . Order Paper aficionado will have notice that Tuesday mark our 100th sitting day of this parliamentary session — [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] that be 100 day of boost our public service , invest in job and growth , and reform the state in favour of people and against vested interest . that be also 100 day of change and 100 day of put the Government back in the service of work people . we have have the most ambitious King ' s Speech programme of any incoming government . ten Bills have now receive Royal Assent , include : the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Act 2024 , end the scandal of free cash go to fail rail company ; and the Water ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 , end bonus for water boss pollute our waterway . very soon , we will have Martyn ' s law , keep the promise that we make to Figen Murray . and there be more on the way : strengthen renter ’ right ; switch on great British Energy ; introduce new power to tackle phone theft ; seize off - road bike ; create respect order ; ban knife sale ; and introduce strong protection against stalk and spike . we be unblock house building and energy infrastructure , which , for too long , have stall . yesterday , we complete our Commons stage of the Employment Rights Bill , give people dignity and security in work . and that be just a few of the thing that we have do . beyond that , we be fix the big problem that the country face : with waiting list finally come down ; more GP appointment ; breakfast club in school ; a 25 % increase in return of people with no right to be here ; more affordable housing and restrict the right to buy ; finally get rid of hereditary peer and crack down on mps ' second job ; and the big devolution of power in a generation . and that be just a snapshot of those 100 day . Mr Speaker , you will be pleased to know that , in that time , we have make 115 statement to this place , because , like you , I respect the House of Commons and I respect that we make announcement here first . but what a contrast to the previous Conservative Government . they have to be drag here to make statement . their last king ' s Speech be threadbare . the pinnacle of their ambition be to ban pedicab in London , and they be not do much well now , be they Mr Speaker ? hardly any of they turn up to debate . they be barely here for pmq , although I do not blame they for that . they be a zombie Government , and be not the truth that they be a zombie opposition now ? I recently meet my constituent , Becky , who be profoundly disabled after her mother be give Primodos , a hormone - base pregnancy test that be popular in the ' 60 and ' 70 and take by roughly 1 . 5 million pregnant woman . it be directly link to miscarriage and severe birth defect in a study commission by the University of Oxford in 2018 . will my right hon . friend make time for a full debate on this scandal , or join I in call for a full public inquiry ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue . I be hugely sympathetic to family who have suffer from hormone pregnancy test . she will be aware that Baroness Cumberlege ' s independent review highlight the healthcare system ' s failure to listen to patient ' concern around those test . she will also be aware that the causal link have be review many time , but I will ensure that minister get back to she with a full update . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . as Members of Parliament , we have many issue that demand our attention , but few that can be more important than ensure child be well feed with healthy , nutritious food . I be sure that member across the House wish that all family be able to provide that every day for their child , but we must face the tragic reality that many child go hungry . in government , the Liberal Democrats be proud to introduce universal free school meal for infant . we ensure that every child could access a healthy lunch each day , because when child go hungry , they make less progress and have poor behaviour and health outcome . a free school lunch may be the only healthy cook food that some child get , or even their only meal of the day . that be shameful in a country such as England . that be why we have table amendment to the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill that would increase the after - tax threshold for free school meal to £ 20 , 000 a year , expand eligibility for free school meal to a further 900 , 000 child . we be also committed to introduce auto - enrolment for those who be eligible for free school meal , ensure that child be automatically consider eligible when their parent apply for relevant benefit or financial support . do the Leader of the House agree that no child should go hungry in 2025 , and will she ask the Government to embrace cross - party work to support the Liberal Democrats ’ long - stand call for free school meal when the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill return to Parliament next week ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise such an important issue , which be of great concern to she and many other in the House . I be sure that in the come day , not just with tomorrow ' s private Member ' s Bill but with the two day of debate on the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , we will have plenty of time to debate these sort of issue in the House . free school meal eligibility should be look at in the round . that be why this government be develop a child poverty strategy , which include free school meal . in the meantime , the hon . Lady will be aware that we be roll out free breakfast club in school , because she be right that have a meal inside a child can stop they feel hungry , but it can also help they to learn , concentrate and do well at school . that be why we be committed to those free breakfast club , and to our child poverty taskforce , which will also look at free school meal . this Sunday mark Disabled Access Day and the importance of accessibility and inclusiveness for all . sadly , disabled people in Luton South and South Bedfordshire can not access Luton station because of the delay and failure of Network Rail in progress the Access for all programme and instal lift at Luton station . will the Leader of the House grant a debate in Government time on how our plan for Great British Railways will improve infrastructure and ensure reliable , affordable and , importantly , accessible train service for everybody ? I be sorry to hear of the frustration and problem that my hon . friend ' s constituent have have with station accessibility , which get raise with I in business question regularly . the Government be commit to improve it . they be difficult challenge , and the Rail Minister be actively consider the good approach to the Access for all programme , but I will ensure that he have hear her question and that she get a full reply . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . in addition to the business that the Leader of the House have announce , if we be give Thursday 3 April in the Chamber , there will be a debate on the impact of digital platform on UK democracy , follow by a debate on access to sport and physical education in school . it would be helpful if she indicate whether we will get Tuesday 8 April , the day before the recess , and the date for estimate in May . in addition , on Tuesday , there will be a debate in Westminster Hall on retrospective accountability of the construction industry , which many colleague be concerned about . on Thursday , there will be a debate on the prevention of drug death and , in response to the hon . member for Stourbridge ( Cat Eccles ) , the first anniversary of the Hughes report on valproate and pelvic mesh . on 1 April , there will be a debate on eat disorder and on Thursday 3 April a debate on waste incinerator , follow by a debate on Government support for Thames Water . on 8 April , there will be a debate on persecution of Christians . today be Purim , when jewish people throughout the world celebrate their deliverance from the first attempt of genocide of jewish people at the hand of the then persian empire . tomorrow be Holi , when Hindus throughout the world will celebrate the deliverance of Vishnu from Holika , the evil witch who be consume by fire . for colleague who be go to Holi festival for the first time , I advise they not to wear business attire because colour will be throw and they will be coat in various different colour , and they will probably not be able to clean the clothe afterwards . will the Leader of the House join I in wish jewish people everywhere chag Purim sameach and all Hindus happy Holi ? I thank the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee , as ever . he have announce a number of important debate that will be popular among hon . member , on issue such as Thames Water and , as have be raise with I a number of time include recently , pelvic mesh and valproate . may I join he in the advice he give to hon . member and also in wish those celebrate Purim and Holi the good of time this week ? on his question about 8 April , which be just before recess , I be not in a position to announce future business , but I will look very kindly on his request . I be delighted to meet my constituent Amy Scullard at the Pebble Brook Community Cafe last week . Amy help run a peer support group in Aylesbury for parent and parent - to - be who be struggle with their mental health , as so many people do . Amy be an absolute inspiration and I look forward to join her group in future . will the Leader of the House join I in recognise the vital role that such mental health support group play and will she continue to ensure that mental health get the attention that it deserve in Parliament ? I join my hon . friend in thank all those who run the Pebble Brook Community Cafe and all the vital work that they do . perinatal mental health be a really important issue that people have come to know about more in recent year . I be a long - stand supporter of the first 1 , 001 day campaign and the importance that that bring . that be why we be so focused on the early year and some of the issue that my hon . friend raise and I think that would make an excellent topic for a Westminster Hall debate . as a believer in parliamentary democracy , I fully support the Government ' s right not to exploit shale gas deposit in the UK on environmental ground . however , may we have an urgent statement from the appropriate net zero Minister on the Government ' s decision from next week to start fill in and put permanently beyond use the two exist shale gas facility in this country , rather than keep they in reserve for an emergency should a future Government ever need to exploit they ? may I thank the right hon . gentleman for agree with the Government that we should not exploit fracke ? that be in our manifesto and we be committed to not do fracke . I will ensure that minister update he on those matter , as they have be do , come regularly to the House . we have have a number of statement from Ministers from the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero , who be keen to update the House as and when . however , I will ensure the right hon . Gentleman be update on that particular issue . the prolonged time that the Disclosure and Barring Service take to check the many applicant for work in vital public service in education , health and social care be impact ten of thousand of people across the UK . indeed , many applicant have have offer of work retract due to the significant delay they have experience . will the Leader of the House allow a debate in Government time to address that critical issue ? DBS check be an important part of many public service job , and it be disappointing to hear of the delay that my hon . friend ' s constituent have face . in fact , those delay have be raise with I previously . minister be keen to hold the DBS to account where standard be not be meet , so I will raise the matter with Ministers . my hon . friend should be aware that , in some circumstance , his constituent can request a hardship escalation where the delay be affect job application . may we have an early debate in Government time on the ending of the radio teleswitch , upon which many people who rely on electric heating and storage heating depend ? it be last debate in an Adjournment debate on 4 December . that spawn a ministerial roundtable on 5 February , which promise further update , but none have be forthcoming . with just over 100 day to go , it would be good to know that there be a sense of urgency in Government . I strongly hear what the right hon . Member say about the impending deadline , and I be sorry if this House have not be keep as up to date as it should have be . I will make inquiry and ensure that he and the rest of the House be keep update . in recent week , many of my constituent have share their concern about the Consett Empire reduce its opening hour . the Empire be a real cultural centre of the community that make art accessible to local people and provide a hub to help combat loneliness . I continue to speak with officer , staff and trade union about the Empire , but can we have a debate in Government time on what we can do to ensure that venue like the Consett Empire stay open and thrive ? I be sorry to hear what be happen to the Consett Empire in my hon . friend ' s constituency . I agree with she that music venue and cultural hub like that be vital to our high street , community and the cultural offer that we all want to see . the Government be commit to ensure that we maintain such asset , but I will ensure that she get an update on this particular issue . I be concerned that the Department for Work and Pensions have confirm that there be a backlog of more than 30 , 000 pension credit claim still to process . that be in spite of assurance from the Minister in October that 352 extra staff have be deploy at the point of the Chancellor ' s announcement to scrap the winter fuel payment . a further 537 staff follow that announcement , and in January it be announce that another 156 staff would be recruit . by my calculation , that is 1 , 045 staff and the backlog still remain . will the Leader of the House make Government time for a debate or statement so that we can understand what be go on with the backlog ? I be concerned that pensioner be still wait for pension credit and winter fuel payment at a time when they desperately need they — the winter be still not over . the right hon . Member will know that we see an 81 % increase in claim , and the late statistic show a 64 % increase in successful pension credit application , which I be sure be something she will welcome . we have deploy an additional 500 staff to process application , and there have be a huge increase there , which be to be welcome . she will know that for any successful application , the money will be backdate to the day the person apply for it , so they will get that , but I will ensure that the House be keep up to date . may I , too , wish a very happy Holi to all the Hindus celebrate in the UK and across the world tomorrow ? an issue that be personal to I and to many of my constituent be Parkinson ' s , and World Parkinson ' s Day take place on 11 April every year . I pay tribute to Parkinson ' s UK for all it do to support people with Parkinson ' s . research suggest that personal independence payment assessor do not have sufficient understanding of the fluctuation in symptom that people with Parkinson ' s experience . consequently , people with Parkinson ' s be deny much - need support . in fact , in almost every instance in which Parkinson ' s UK ' s expert social security adviser have assist a member of the Parkinson ' s community to challenge an initial PIP decision , it have be overturn in the claimant ' s favour . as such , can we have a debate in Government time on support people live with Parkinson ' s and other degenerative condition , and about the social security support available to they ? I join my hon . friend in thank Parkinson ' s UK for its work . he be absolutely right . I be sure that every single one of we will , as constituency mp , recognise the challenge for PIP assessor in properly assess those with fluctuating and chronic illness . it be vital that those assess access to benefit have the necessary training and understanding of chronic condition such as Parkinson ' s . I will ensure that minister keep he and the House update on that . Dundee University in my constituency have one of the world ' s lead life science department , but it face a significant deficit that be be compound by nearly £ 3 million of employer national insurance contribution . may we have a statement from a Treasury Minister as soon as possible , and might a pause be put in place for establishment face serious financial difficulty that will be seriously compound by the rise in employer national insurance contribution ? I be sorry to hear about the difficulty face by the university in the hon . member ' s constituency . as he will have hear I say early , these be not decision that any Government want to come in and make , but we have have to deal with the inheritance we find ourselves with and ensure that we get vital investment into our public service , particularly the NHS , which we find completely on its knee with such high waiting list . the university , life science and research sector have have very good settlement in Budgets over recent year , and they be expect to fund the national insurance rise from within their own budget . I will ensure that he be keep update . the Canal & River Trust manage 2 , 000 mile of waterway , include nearly 500 mile in the north - west . I recently meet the trust and its dedicated volunteer , who highlight confusion about ownership and fund difficulty . will the Leader of the House join I in thank that organisation , and do she agree that a debate on that important part of our heritage would give it the focus that it deserve ? I absolutely recognise what my hon . friend describe . I recently meet the Canal & River Trust . I be not sure whether there be a canal that connect her constituency to mine , but I could definitely get on a barge and go from my constituency to hers — and mine . and to yours , too , Mr Speaker — we be very well connect in our region in that regard . my hon . friend be absolutely right : canal not only provide the blue space that many of our town and city centre need , but offer tourist attraction and many other asset . we should support the work of the Canal & River Trust . many value public servant work at Porton down in my constituency . it be home to the Health Protection Agency when I first become an MP , then to Public Health England and then the UK Health Security Agency . in 2015 , the decision be make to establish a new facility in Essex . I have be apply and will continue to apply for an Adjournment debate , but we could really do with a statement from a Health Minister on the future of the UK Health Security Agency , which be a vital facility for this country . my constituent need to know what be happen with it . I be sorry that the right hon . Gentleman have not yet be successful in apply for an Adjournment debate , but the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) , who chair the Backbench Business Committee , and Mr Speaker be both in their place and have , I be sure , hear his plea . the future of the UK Health Security Agency , which do great work , be of national importance . I will ensure that he get an update at the early opportunity . I be honour to be call after the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) . I thank the Leader of the House for mention Young Carers Action Day , which be yesterday . the hon . member for Mid Sussex ( Alison Bennett ) and I take an open - top bus tour with some young carer and get hail on . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate my constituent Danielle , who win a prize in the national Show Racism the Red Card poetry competition for her poem " like a butterfly " , and do my right hon . friend recognise the importance of creative writing in break down barrier and challenging division ? absolutely , I join my hon . friend in congratulate Danielle on write an award - win poem and all the young carer in his constituency and beyond . I hear on the radio this morning that AI think it can now do creative writing for all of we , but I be sure it can not beat Danielle and the creative write endeavour of young people . early this week , I have a meeting with the UK Chamber of Shipping . coincidentally , it be the day of the incident in the North sea , so obviously we discuss that , but the main point of the meeting be to discuss the impact of shipping on the UK economy and my constituency in particular . may we have a debate in Government time on the importance of the shipping sector to the UK economy ? the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent and other will have be affect by the event in the North sea this week . as a great island nation , shipping be vital to the economy of this country , to our trade and to our standing . I be sure that Ministers would be happy to update the House regularly on these matter . I have be work for several month to help a number of my constituent get the wheelchairs they need to have good - quality , independent life . while I understand that it be the role of integrate care board to deliver equality of service , the problem be much more widespread . the Wheelchair Alliance recommend that NHS England play a more active role in ensure that ICBs prioritise wheelchair service and dedicate sufficient resource to they . will the Minister allow time to debate the many challenge people experience regard wheelchair provision ? I be sure we can all recognise the frustration that many people have with wheelchair provision . my hon . friend be right : there be still far too much variation , include regional variation , in the quality and provision of NHS wheelchair . a new wheelchair quality framework be soon to be publish by NHS England , and I will ensure that she and the rest of the House be update on that . my constituent Jennifer , an american citizen , come here in 2018 on a spousal visa , which be renew in 2022 . she apply for indefinite leave to remain in May last year . the Government website say : " you ' ll usually be tell whether your application have be successful within 6 month . " it have be 10 month . Jennifer ' s now expire visa have give her employer concern about her right to work , and that financial uncertainty be exacerbate by the fact that she can not be add to the couple ' s mortgage , which affect the work they need to do on their home . Jennifer have try and I have try , so I wonder whether the Leader of the House could try to raise this case with her colleague in the Home Office to see what have happen , get it sort and reduce the stress that this delay be cause Jennifer and her family . I be sorry to hear of the frustrating experience that the hon . Lady and Jennifer have have . the hon . Lady will know that there have be a backlog in these case . we have put in place extra caseworker and be deal with the backlog as quickly as we can . as ever , I would be happy to raise this case and see whether I can expedite an answer . in my 2025 Cramlington and Killingworth priority survey , resident consistently raise antisocial behaviour and off - road bike . the measure in the Crime and Policing Bill will send a strong message that this behaviour will no long be tolerate , but can we have a debate on the action this Government be take to tackle the issue and ensure that the police have the power and resource they need to remove these menacing bike from our street ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . like she , I welcome the measure in the Crime and Policing Bill , which have its second reading early this week . the power we be give the police to seize and crush these menacing off - road bike , quad bike and other be probably one of the most popular thing this Government have do in recent week among my constituent . she be right : we need to make sure that once the new power be give , the police have the resource and can operationalise their intention . last week , it be announce that £ 600 , 000 of funding have be secure to resurface Huntingdon High Street , improve not only the look and feel of the high street but its accessibility . I wholeheartedly support that proposal , and it be great to see more step be take to make it attractive to new business . the funding be secure by Huntingdon ' s BID — business improvement district — team , Paul Sweeney and Mags Clark , who have be do fantastic work to improve Huntingdon and make it a vibrant and thriving town centre . I have work closely with Paul , and his ongoing effort to encourage local people back into town have be instrumental in its regeneration . could the Leader of the House make time in the schedule to debate how we can regenerate our high street ? absolutely , and I join the hon . gentleman in congratulate Huntington High Street and the local BID team on secure those fund . I know from my own constituency that BID team do a really brilliant job in secure that kind of investment and have a plan to regenerate town centre , as be happen Huntington . I wish the hon . Gentleman well in that . I look forward perhaps to receive an invitation in a future question to a new caf é or pub , or even a hairdresser , in his constituency which may flourish as a result . these be important matter that we will continue to debate in the House . last week I attend the community pub hero award in Parliament and see Terry Cole and Keith Fulwood from the Royal Oak pub in Chapel Ash in my constituency receive award for good community fundraise hero and outstanding contribution for their voluntary work in support the NHS by deliver blood and medication on motorbike , thereby save life . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the Royal Oak pub on its achievement and acknowledge the wonderful contribution our local pub make to our community ? may I also invite she to have a drink in the Royal Oak the next time she find herself in Wolverhampton ? I be always happy to pay a visit to a Royal Oak pub . I be sure we all have a Royal Oak pub in our constituency , but my hon . friend ' s in Wolverhampton lead by Terry and Keith sound like it go way beyond its role as a pub . it sound like it be a community hub that do so much to support his local community , so I be delighted to join he in thank they . in Northern Ireland we have the ludicrous situation of soldier be investigate for engage armed and dangerous terrorist without first expose themselves to be murder by those same terrorist . this be the tip of the iceberg of the demand for one - sided justice in Northern Ireland . will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on defend historical truth and challenge the one - sided revisionism that be erode trust in the justice system and distort the legacy of the trouble and the memory of the innocent victim who lose their life at the hand of bloodthirsty terrorist ? I be sorry to hear that the hon . Lady be disappoint with the Government action in this area . the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland believe that the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 need reform and replacement , and he have be work closely with all the party in Northern Ireland on that . he have update the House regularly on those discussion and on his progress , and he will continue to be forthcoming in those conversation and to the House . I will ensure he have hear the hon . Lady ' s question . first , I declare an interest as chair of the all - party group for Fairtrade . the Government have inherit a wide range of trade negotiation with partner include the Gulf Co - operation Council , Israel and India , all of which will have implication for the UK economy , the environment and global trade . what effort be the Leader of the House make to ensure there be adequate time in the Commons to discuss trade deal ? I be sure my hon . friend appreciate that I take the scrutiny of Government trade deal and other Government action incredibly seriously . I hope he be aware that the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010 make provision for statutory consultation and scrutiny by Parliament of these sort of measure . however , as part of the work I be lead in the Modernisation Committee and elsewhere , I be always happy to consider other proposal to ensure that we have robust scrutiny by Parliament of any such deal . I recently enjoy the privilege of meet two inspirational constituent , Helen and James , who for the past 15 year have be foster carer to many child across Bromsgrove . when I meet they I also meet their lovely 11 - year - old foster child Lizzie ; she be very happy and confident , make clear the benefit of foster in society . Lizzie raise with I the question of whether fostering can be include on the curriculum to reduce stigma so that child across society be aware of different family structure . will the Leader of the House join I in praise the fantastic work of foster carer across the country , and please will she raise this question with colleague in the Department for Education on behalf of Lizzie ? I join the hon . gentleman in thank Helen , James and all the foster parent in his constituency and all our constituency . it sound like Lizzie have find a great home to live in , which be what we want for every family . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that those who put themselves forward for foster be some of the good people in our country and society . we owe they a huge debt and the child who be place with they really be lucky . he raise their very good suggestion about how we can ensure that people be well educate about foster and understand it , so that other aspire to foster . I will raise that with Ministers , but he might want to raise it himself during the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill debate next week . March be ovarian Cancer Awareness Month . I be proud to serve as a Target ovarian Cancer ambassador and I do so on behalf of Diane Boothby from my constituency who be a survivor of ovarian cancer and campaign tirelessly to raise awareness . on Tuesday , I will be host an ovarian cancer awareness drop - in event in Parliament . will the Leader of the House have the opportunity to stop by , and will she consider whether there be an opportunity for a debate in the Chamber on ovarian cancer , a disease that be impact more than 40 , 000 woman in this country ? I join my hon . friend in thank diane for all her tireless work in raise awareness of ovarian cancer , and I thank everyone involve in the work of Target ovarian Cancer . I will certainly try to pop by his event next week . we be committed to improve diagnosis and treatment for all cancer patient , and we will be publish a new national cancer plan shortly . I will ensure he and the whole House be keep update . in business question last week I raise with the Leader of the House my concern at the last - minute cancellation of the cross - party talk on social care . despite her very sympathetic response , I still have not receive any communication from the Secretary of State . do the Leader of the House think that she might be able to expedite the restarting of those crucially important talk to tackle the crisis in social care , so that I do not need to ask the same question at business question next week ? the hon . Lady should keep on at I when we do not live up to what we say at the Dispatch Box . I have raise the issue with the Department of Health and Social Care and I will continue to do that for she . I be sorry it have be another week and she have not hear . the Secretary of State will be here shortly to give a statement on a related matter — not quite the same matter — so she may want to raise it with he . I think that he might already have be in his place for her question . I will ensure she get a quick response . I recently visit Ysgol Pencae in my constituency to talk to pupil about my role as an MP . we practise bob , which I have be do this morning , and they ask some wonderful question . the child at the school learn in the medium of Welsh , so as it be your Vote week , will the Leader of the House say bore da to the pupil at Ysgol Pencae and tell they what be her favourite thing about be an MP ? Bore da to all the child in my hon . friend ' s constituency , in Bangor , Aberconwy and elsewhere . who would know that bob be such a skill , Mr Speaker ? it keep all our glut in check , certainly for I at business question . my favourite thing about be a Member of Parliament be be able to stand up , advocate for and represent my constituent . first and foremost , that be the job that we be all here to do . during Business and Trade question early , we hear mention of the fantastic value of the export of our food and drink to the United States , which be a sound point . the food and drink industry support tourism all over the UK , and the whisky distillery provide fantastic local employment in some of the remotest part of Scotland . Mr Speaker , next time you travel on London North Eastern Railway , the biscuit you eat will have be make by Mr Gary Reid of Perthshire . I declare an interest because my brother be a cheesemaker . may we have a debate on the food and drink industry in the UK , which be one of our great achievement ? absolutely . we have great british food and drink , whether it be whisky or the great cheese that the hon . Gentleman ' s brother make . a big cheese - lover , my hon . friend the Member for Manchester Withington ( Jeff Smith ) , be sit next to I on the Bench ; the hon . Gentleman ' s brother might want to give he a sample . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that the many great food and drink we make in this country be a really important part of our export around the world , to America and elsewhere . I will ensure that the House be keep up to date on these issue ; they would make a good topic for a debate . I be sure you will agree , Mr Speaker , that one of the good part of be a Member of Parliament be visit our fantastic local school . when I have do that in recent month , I have be shock by what I have see . I have see pupil at Deanesfield primary school , my old school , learn in mouldy and crumbling portacabin . I have see Bishopshalt school , a fantastic secondary school , with broken plumbing and toilet . just last week , I see pupil at Glebe primary school , which flood in September , still learn in facility that have not be put right by the council . can we make time in this place for a debate about much - need capital investment in school building and how we build on the fantastic legacy of the last Labour Government ' s Building Schools for the Future programme ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . when we come into government we find the shocking state of capital investment in our school really appal . we know that we need to do more , and we be do what we can initially . we have set aside more than £ 2 billion for the next financial year , which will probably only scratch the surface , but that will include funding for Hillingdon council to improve the maintain school in his constituency . he be absolutely right to raise those issue . the Worth valley in my constituency be probably one of the most beautiful part of the countryside , but it be under threat from the Walshaw moor wind farm , which be potentially the large wind farm development in the UK , rip through 235 hectare of protect peatland — one of our most protect natural carbon store . local campaign group be staunchly and quite rightly against it , as be I . in the interest of party unity , I have write to all neighbouring mp — West Yorkshire be a lonely place for a Conservative , as they all happen to be Labour mp — but I have not have a response from any of they , despite write to they back in January . can we have a debate in Government time about the importance of raise our local concern about wind farm development and labour ' s announcement that it be remove the moratorium on wind farm development ? I be sorry to tell the hon . Gentleman that we stand proudly behind our lifting of the moratorium on onshore wind development , because they be absolutely vital if we be to get the energy security , job of the future and low bill for his , mine and everybody else ' s constituent that we so desperately need . I be sorry that he have not have a reply to his correspondence , but we have bring in the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , which we will debate next week and which ensure that those affect by energy infrastructure near their home will have other incentive and right that they might want to consider . I be afraid we will have to keep go far and fast on these issue ; that be vital to our future energy security and to lower people ' s bill . last week , my constituent Liz , from Bignall end in Newcastle - under - Lyme , come to my surgery and share the story of her autistic daughter , who live with selective mutism . Liz ' s daughter be refer to the child and adolescent mental health service , but the service provide be not suitable for her need . can we have a debate on how we can specifically , properly and quickly improve mental health support for child and young people under the age of 18 in Newcastle - under - Lyme and across our country ? support young people with their mental health need be urgent and vital to tackle many of the issue we face , not just for the individual themselves but for many other societal issue . we be bring additional support for mental health adviser into school as well as many other issue . my hon . friend might want to raise that in the debate on the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill next week . the community equipment service sector , with its organisation such as Millbrook , which serve constituent in my constituency , play a vital role in work with local authority and the NHS to help people to live independently outside hospital , provide essential equipment such as bed aid , bathroom safety equipment and mobility tool . that deliver significant cost saving to the Government . I meet representative yesterday who tell I that rise national insurance contribution be place extra strain on a sector already under pressure . they also tell I that there be a mixed picture in the reuse of equipment , so there be load of potential to save the Government money . will the Leader of the House allow time to debate the use of community medical equipment to ensure that the sector be at the forefront of help people out of hospital and back into their home as part of its critical role in support a function health and social care system ? the hon . member be absolutely right that early intervention and service in the community — those service that can help to keep people live independently at home , and that help with discharge from hospital and care home — be absolutely vital to our country and our health service , and to keep people live well for long . many of those service , such as Millbrook in her constituency , be either charity or community service . this Government have support many of those service through increase budget for the national health service and for local government , but we need to do more to ensure that the service provide by people such as those support Millbrook be holistic , well support and long term . rise — order . we have an important statement come shortly , but I would like to get as many member in as possible , so can we have very short question and perhaps short answer from the Leader of the House , please ? yesterday , I be proud to vote for the Employment Rights Bill , which — among other action — will ban fire and rehire tactic . however , Tory - lead Devon county council be currently threaten over 800 of its employee , include many of my constituent , with those exact tactic . will the Leader of the House allocate time in this House to discuss that disgraceful decision ? that sound like a really disgraceful decision , and one that I be sure my hon . friend and the rest of the House will stand up against . that be why we need the Employment Rights Bill — I be glad that it have now pass its Commons stage . we want to end fire and rehire for good , and I be surprised that the conservative party vote against it . as the Leader of the House know , there be strong opposition among resident in the Scottish Borders to plan by ScottishPower Energy Networks to build massive pylon along a 94 - km route through the Scottish Borders . the regulator , Ofgem , play a vital role in the decision - make process but , shockingly , be refuse to meet I or the local action group . can the Leader of the House write to her Cabinet colleague to try to encourage Ofgem to engage with I , and can she speak to Ofgem on our behalf and try to persuade it to speak to local resident ? I absolutely will — I be sorry to hear that Ofgem have not get back to the hon . Gentleman , and I will raise the matter with Ministers . as I be sure he appreciate , new infrastructure mean difficult decision in many of our community , but we be determined to achieve the energy security and low bill that we need . however , I will ensure that he get a response . child and young people on the Isle of Sheppey face massive barrier to opportunity compare with those in more affluent part of Kent . last week , many family on the Isle of Sheppey be devastate to learn that child be to be send many mile away to the mainland — several hour by public transport — for their secondary school place . I have speak to parent , headteacher and local councillor about this , and although the issue be clearly complicated , the root of the problem be that many people at Kent county council do not understand the challenge that my constituent on Sheppey face . will the Leader of the House advise I on how good I can raise the issue with Ministers in the House , and may we have a debate about the allocation system for secondary school , particularly how it relate to area of extreme need and deprivation ? I be sorry to hear that my hon . friend ' s local council seem to be so out of touch with the need of family in his constituency . he will know that planning for secondary and other school place be a matter for local authority ; they do get funding to provide extra space where they be need , but they have to do that in advance and be in touch with their local community . however , I be sure that my hon . friend will be able to raise those issue next week during the debate on the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill . Wylfa be the good nuclear site in the UK , but the new national policy statement for nuclear energy have scrap the list of well - suit site . may we please have a debate in Government time on whether this Government be still committed to develop a new nuclear project at Wylfa ? this Government be commit to new nuclear energy and have recently make announcement on that endeavour . however , I will ensure that the hon . Lady get an update on the nuclear proposal in her constituency , and that the House be also update . in Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme I have be work hard to reconnect our community . in January I submit my proposal for the Doncaster East super - loop bus service to the Mayor of South Yorkshire . in February I meet Hornsby Travel , a value family - run bus company serve the Isle of Axholme . this year , it celebrate its 110th anniversary , recognise with a visit from her Royal Highness the Princess Royal . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Hornsby Travel , and will she support my effort to ensure that my constituent have access to the transport link they need ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate Hornsby Travel on its amazing anniversary — there be cheer across the House when he mention it , so it sound like a popular bus provider in his constituency . we have bring forward the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) bill , currently pass through the other place , to ensure that local community have the bus service they need . rental income from social housing be currently 16 % below inflation . home for the South West , which include Curo in my constituency , be under a contractual obligation to do repair while also build new home under increasingly stretch grant funding system . it make do both nigh impossible . may we have a debate on how we can protect our tenant to get the repair they need , while also address the social housing crisis ? that be exactly what this Government be try to do , through a range of measure . we have the Renters ’ right Bill go through Parliament at the moment . we have the Planning and Infrastructure Bill to support developer and those who want to build more housing , especially social and affordable housing . this Government be commit to support tenant and get the new home build that we need . this week , Union Yard , a new quarter of Aldershot , have open , include the Makers ' Yard , a home for local creative business . that have be deliver by the previous and current administration of Rushmoor council . will the Leader of the House join I in send good wish to local resident Jess and Georgina of Kitschy Bits Boutique ahead of their opening in maker ' yard on Saturday ? may we have a debate on what this government be do to support more retail opportunity for local creative business as part of our growth mission ? absolutely , I join my hon . friend in congratulate Jess and Georgina on their opening . she be right that local business on our high street , especially creative business , be vital to the future of our town centre . Zoe be a bright and exceptionally politically engaged young woman in Falkirk . she have have to seek private diagnosis for postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome , or POTS , follow admission to hospital on several occasion for symptom consistent with POTS . no national guideline for POTS exist and , alarmingly , no dedicated clinical pathway for its treatment be available for patient such as Zoe . will the Leader of the House support a debate to discuss the creation of national clinical guideline for POTS patient ? I be really sorry to hear about Zoe ' s experience . the situation in Scotland with the NHS be particularly worry under the Scottish Government . the majority of service for POTS in England be commission by integrate care board , but I will raise this matter with Health Ministers — they have all just take their seat on the Front Bench for the forthcoming statement , so they will have hear his question . human right violation in Algeria , particularly against the Kabyle Berber minority , be of grow concern . report highlight increase repression , include arbitrary arrest , surveillance and restriction on religious freedom , lead worryingly to Algeria ' s placement on the US special watch list . a recent UK legal opinion have affirm the Kabyle people ' s right to self - determination under international law . however , this House have not address the Kabylia region since 1902 . I do not think anyone in this House would remember that . will the Leader of the House please urge the Foreign Secretary to make a statement on this matter urgently ? as usual , the hon . member raise an important issue , this time in relation to Algeria . I be sure he will be reassure to know that the british ambassador regularly raise these matter with his counterpart in Algeria , include have recently meet the Minister of Religious Affairs on 10 February . last week , Redditch lose a giant . arrive from Jamaica in the 1950 , Madge Tillsley MBE be a true pillar of the Redditch community . she be a trailblazer , a campaign councillor and a source of joy to all who know she . she make history as the first black mayor in Worcestershire in 1991 and be an incredibly hard act to follow in represent our town . will the Leader of the House join I in pay tribute to Madge ' s dedication to public service and our town and send condolence to her family ? absolutely . I have read the tribute to Auntie Madge , as I think she be know , and I absolutely support my hon . friend in send our condolence , good wish and thank to she and her family for all her dedicated work . it be fantastic to be able to observe the Leicester , Leicestershire and Rutland resilience forum exercise Operation Mercury , a live emergency service exercise at our local barrack to test the response to a major incident on the M1 . will the Leader of the House join I in thank Leicestershire Police , Leicestershire Fire and Rescue Service , East Midlands Ambulance Service and local authority , as well as all the volunteer involve in the operation ? will she also thank our emergency service for the work that they do every day to keep we safe ? absolutely . we all support the amazing work of our emergency service — fire , police , ambulance and many other — and I will absolutely join my hon . friend in thank they . last year , Simone White , the daughter of one of my constituent , be travel with her friend in Laos . like many young people , they have choose to go travel in south - east Asia on what be a very popular tourist route . tragically , after drink shot in a Vang Vieng resort , she be take ill and die of suspect methanol poisoning , become the sixth person who be believe to have die in this way at the resort . unfortunately , young people ' s awareness of the risk of methanol poisoning be very low . will the Leader of the House commit House time for a debate on how we can increase awareness of methanol poisoning and ensure that no more family have to go through the pain that simone ' s family be currently experience ? I think we be all touch by this tragic case last November . follow it , we update our travel advice , and we continue to press the local authority for a full investigation so that we can prevent contaminate alcohol from be sell in this way in the future . since November , the Foreign Office have be communicate the risk of methanol poisoning to people travel abroad . I be sure the whole House will join I in send our good wish to simone ' s family . cumbernauld theatre be a long - stand and vital cultural cornerstone , but it now face the possibility of closure follow a cut to its funding by Creative Scotland . its work extend beyond performance , with an extensive outreach programme in the local community , and the petition to save it have now reach 10 , 000 signature . may we please have a debate in Government time on the importance of local theatre and their role in increase access to culture ? my hon . friend have previously raise with I the importance of Cumbernauld theatre , which obviously be truly love by her community . she will know that Creative Scotland and the cultural fund that it deploy be a devolved matter , and this be a shocking decision by the Scottish Government , for which they should be accountable . they have now have a huge increase in their budget , they have the power , and they need to make well decision in the interest of her community . during the holy month of Ramadan , will my right hon . friend join I in pay tribute to the Almanaar Muslim cultural centre in north Kensington , which play such a pivotal role after Grenfell and throughout the pandemic , and which be now inspire as a place of worship , a community kitchen , a nursery and so much more ? will she join I in wish all Muslims in Britain Ramadan Mubarak ? I will absolutely join my hon . friend in wish all Muslims in Britain Ramadan Mubarak . I think every single one of we remember the incredible work that the Almanaar Muslim cultural centre do in the wake of the Grenfell fire . when many other step aside , it fill the space , and we pay tribute to it for its continue work . NHS England Update with permission , I would like to make a statement on the future of NHS England . since come into office , this Government have make big stride in fix our break nhs . under the Conservatives , the NHS suffer year of industrial action , cost taxpayer billion and cost patient more than 1 million cancel operation and appointment . we negotiate an end to the resident doctor strike within three week . we have deliver the 2 million extra appointment we promise in our first year , and we do it seven month early . after 14 year of rise waiting list under the Conservatives , we be finally turn the tide , cut waiting list for five month in a row , cut waiting list through the winter pressure and cut waiting list by 193 , 000 so far and count . we have agree the GP contract with GPs for the first time since the pandemic — our first step to bring back the family doctor — and we have deliver the big uplift in hospice funding for a generation . however , there should be no doubt about the scale of the challenge ahead . we inherit an NHS go through the bad crisis in its history , so there be no time to waste . we inherit public finance with a £ 22 billion black hole , so there be no money to waste . the urgency of the crisis mean we have to go far and fast to deliver well value for taxpayer and well service for patient — something the conservative party can not even begin to speak to a record on . Lord Darzi ' s independent investigation into the national health service trace the current crisis back to the 2012 top - down reorganisation of the NHS by the right hon . Lord Lansley . the Darzi investigation say the reorganisation be " disastrous " and a " calamity without international precedent " that " scorch the earth " for health reform , " the effect of which be still feel to this day . " the Health and Social Care Act 2012 establish more than 300 new NHS organisation , create a complex and fragmented web of bureaucracy and , to quote the Darzi investigation , " imprison more than a million NHS staff in a broken system " . today , we be put the final nail in the coffin of the Conservatives ' disastrous top - down reorganisation of the NHS . there be more than twice as many staff work in NHS England and the Department of Health and Social Care today than there be in 2010 — twice as many staff as when the NHS deliver the short waiting time and the high patient satisfaction in history . today , the NHS deliver bad care for patient , but be more expensive than ever before . the budget for NHS England staff and admin alone have soar to £ 2 billion . taxpayer be pay more , but get less . we have be leave with two large organisation do the same role , with an enormous amount of duplication . it be especially in time like these , when money be tight , that such bloated and inefficient bureaucracy can not be justify . however , even if the Conservatives have not leave a £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance , the Prime Minister would still be announce the change he be today , because every £ 1 that be waste on inefficient bureaucracy — in good time or bad — be £ 1 that can not be spend on treat patient fast , nor can it be spend on fix our crumble school , lift child out of poverty or put money back into people ' s pocket . there be always a duty on Ministers to get as much value for taxpayer ' money as be possible , and I can not honestly say that it be achievable with the way that my Department and NHS England be set up today , nor can I say that the current set - up be get the good out of the NHS . I be sure member will have hear their local NHS leader complain about the top - down way in which the NHS be run . it be something I have hear for year . now that I find myself at the peak of this enormous mountain of accountability , I do not just recognise the complaint ; I agree with it . frontline NHS staff be drown in the micromanagement they be subject to by the various and vast layer of bureaucracy . in the Hewitt review , the former Health Secretary my right hon . friend Dame Patricia Hewitt report that one local service be require to send 250 report and form to NHS England and the Department of Health and Social Care in a single month . that be time and energy that be not be spend deliver care for patient . the review also conclude that have two organisation do the same job have lead to " tension , waste time and needless frictional cost " . since come into office I have seek to correct that , by build a one - team approach between my Department and NHS England , work towards our share mission of build an NHS fit for the future . today , the Prime Minister have announce that we be turn one team into one organisation . I acknowledge that there be talente , commit public servant work at every level of the NHS and my Department , include at NHS England , who I have have the privilege of work with over the past eight month . the reform we be announce today be not a reflection on they . they have be set up to fail by a fragmented system that hold they back . the action we be take today will change that . work have already begin to strip out the duplication between the two organisation , and bring many of NHS England ' s function into the Department . NHS England will have a much clear focus over this transformation period . it will be in charge of hold local provider to account for the outcome that really matter : cut waiting time , and manage their finance responsibly . and it be task with realise the untapped potential of our national health service as a single - payer public service : get a well deal for taxpayer through central procurement ; be a well customer to medical technology innovator , to get the late cutting - edge tech into the hand of staff and patient much fast ; and be a well partner to the life science sector , to develop the medicine of the future . over the next two year , NHS England will be bring into the Department entirely . these reform will deliver a much lean top of the NHS , make significant saving of hundred of million of pound a year . that money will flow down to the frontline , to cut waiting time fast and deliver our plan for change . by slash through the layer of red tape and end the infantilisation of frontline NHS leader , we will set local NHS provider free to innovate , develop new productive way of working , and focus on what matter most : deliver well care for patient . I can not count the number of Conservatives who have tell I in private that they regret the 2012 reorganisation and wish they have reverse it when in office . but none of they act . they put it in the " too difficult " box while patient and taxpayer pay the price , because only Labour can reform the NHS . and this Government be prove that only Labour can be trust to reform the state . the Prime Minister have commit to cut the number of quango . today , we be abolish the big quango in the world . I be delighted that Sir James Mackey will be lead the transformation team , as the Chief Executive of NHS England . Jim have an outstanding track record of turn around organisation , balance the book , drive up productivity , and drive down waiting time . he be put in place a new transformation team to drive change , and alongside Dr Penny Dash as the incoming chair , I be delighted to have such a capable leadership team of radical reformer to lead NHS England with I through this transformation . I also take this opportunity to place on record my heartfelt thank to Amanda Pritchard , who have show an outstanding commitment to our national health service over her decade of service — which I know remain undiminished . she have also be a rock of enormous support , not only in the past eight month , but also in the past few week as we have work together with Jim prepare for this change . I also place on record my thank to her deputy Julian Kelly , who be one of the most outstanding public servant of his generation , along with the rest of the leadership team depart at the end of the month . they deserve our thank and good wish for the future . change be hard . there will always be cautious voice warn you to slow down . however break the status quo be , there will be those who resist any change away from it . but we should be in no doubt : we inherit a national health service go through the bad crisis in its history . patient be wait unacceptable length of time for an operation , a GP appointment or an ambulance . this Labour Government will never duck the hard yard of reform . we will take on vested interest and change the status quo , so the NHS can once again be there for we when we need it . the Prime Minister have set an enormously ambitious target for the NHS : to cut waiting time for operation from up to 18 month to a maximum of 18 week by the end of this Parliament . that will require we to go far and fast than even the last Labour Government achieve , but patient in our country deserve nothing less . the reform the Prime Minister be set out today will mean few checker and more doer . it will cut through the complex web of bureaucracy , and devolve more resource and responsibility to the frontline , to deliver well value for taxpayer ' money and a well service for patient . it will set the NHS up to deliver on the three big shift need to make the service fit for the future : from hospital to community , analogue to digital , and sickness to prevention . the NHS be break , but it be not beat . together , we will turn it around . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of his statement . it be disappointing , once again , that it be not make to the House first ; in recent day , there have be numerous medium briefing about this potential restructure . under new leadership on the Conservative Benches , we believe in a lean and more efficient state . that mean use resource effectively , reduce waste and prevent duplication , spend money where it be most beneficial . after all , the public understandably want to see the focus on patient care and not on backroom manager . therefore , we be supportive of measure to streamline management , and we do not oppose the principle of take direct control , but we need to know what step will be take to meet target while all the upheaval happen . we need to know the specific of what be be plan . what be the timeframe for the abolition of NHS England ? by what date will it be complete ? how many people will be move into different role ? how many people will lose their job altogether ? how much money be that expect to save ? labour run the NHS in Wales , which have the high waiting list and the long waiting time in Great Britain . what lesson have Labour learn from its failure in Wales ? NHS England , as the Secretary of State say , have just lose much of its leadership . be that because they no long have confidence in the Secretary of State , or because he do not have confidence in they ? perhaps he can tell the House whether Alan Milburn will keep his job in the upheaval . we also need to be clear that move people into different role will not fix the challenge that face the NHS . the Secretary of State have speak about take direct control . that may help he ensure that the NHS stop waste money on expensive diversity , equity and inclusion staff , and ensure that it provide dignity and privacy for female staff and patient , but what do it mean for clinical prioritisation ? will condition that be less common and have less glitzy campaign and few celebrity backer suffer because the Secretary of State now have political consideration ? do the Secretary of State have the bandwidth for this , give he have such a busy role already ? how do the centralisation of power measure up with the commitment to give more power to regional body and local integrate care board ? in the first six month after enter office , the Government announce 14 review , consultation and call for evidence , all of which require more staff . be those job at risk , or be other pre - exist role set to be cut ? this announcement come the same week as Labour ' s Employment Rights Bill pass through the Commons . be the Secretary of State get a move on because he know that red tape and bureaucracy will dramatically increase afterwards and make the decision he have to take more difficult to deliver ? a drive to improve efficiency in the civil service and the management of the health service be welcome , but what about the NHS itself ? the Government slimme down our productivity plan and deliver a 22 % pay rise in return for no modernisation or reform . how will those decision improve efficiency ? I ask the Department what proportion of people with a nursing qualification work in the NHS be in patient - face role , but the Minister say that they do not know . how can he use the skill and resource effectively if he do not know where those skill and resource be ? the Prime Minister be make a lot of noise about productivity and cut waste , but he still refuse to set a target for cut the civil service headcount . thank to the decision he and the Chancellor take at the Budget , the size of the state be grow rapidly , not shrink , while change to national insurance contribution have divert funding away from the frontline into compensate the Treasury . ultimately , any restructure will be challenge by the Government ' s continued failure to tackle immigration . while step to improve efficiency in the healthcare service be welcome , these word ring hollow across Government . I will take the more serious question from the shadow Minister first . on timeframe , we will work immediately to start bring team together , as we have do with the one - team culture we have be build over the past eight month . I want the integration of NHS England into the Department to be complete in two year . the shadow Minister ask about the reduction in the number of official . NHS England have 15 , 300 staff ; the Department of Health and Social Care have 3 , 300 . we be look to reduce the overall headcount across both by 50 % , which will deliver hundred of million of pound of saving . the exact figure will be determine by the precise configuration of staff , and we will obviously keep the House update on that . the shadow Minister ask about clinical leadership . one change we will be make with the transformation team be to have two medical director succeed Professor Sir Stephen Powis , whose departure from NHS England be plan long before these change . there will be one medical director for primary care and one for secondary care , underpin our commitment to the shift we have describe . I must say , there be enormous improvement to be make in clinical leadership for patient outcome , patient safety and productivity , and I be demand strong clinical leadership to drive those improvement to productivity . frankly , many consultant and clinical team on the frontline will welcome that liberation — they be hungry for change . the shadow Minister ask about the workforce datum and complain that we have not be able to give she the precise answer . I agree : it be frustrating not have that precise information at my fingertip . I would gently remind she , though , on this as on so many thing , that her party be in power for 14 year . she can not very well complain eight month in give that they leave we a woeful , embarrass datum architecture and infrastructure . the shadow Minister ask about efficiency . once again , she refer to the resident doctor deal as if it be a failure . the actual failure be leave doctor on the picket line , not on the frontline , and waste huge amount of taxpayer ' money , with cancellation and delay to patient ' appointment , operation and procedure . we stop that within week of come into office . the deal do include reform to improve productivity — if she be any doubt about the result , she should look at the fact that despite winter pressure , NHS waiting list have fall five month in a row . once again , we get the facile point about my right hon . friend Alan Milburn , who be the lead non - executive board member for my Department . I honestly do not know why he bother to pay for a mortgage ; he live rent - free in the Conservatives ’ head . they need to move on . by the way , just for the record : Alan Milburn have a record on the NHS that the Conservatives can not even begin to touch . the shadow Minister ask about confidence . I be delighted to be introduce a new transformation team . different leadership challenge require different leadership skill . as I say , I have be really pleased to work with Amanda Pritchard for the past eight month , include on this transition ; people should have no doubt about the confidence I have in her skill , talent and ability , and I think she have a lot still to contribute to our NHS . we do not need to ask about confidence in the conservative party ; it be reflect in the scarce number on the Opposition Benches . what be the lesson from Wales ? the lesson be that when there be a Conservative Government in Westminster , the national health service suffer in England , Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland . that be why we be create a rise tide to lift all ship . I be sure we will see improvement across the United Kingdom . SNP Members , who be not in their place , do not have any excuse now . as I say before the election , all road lead to Westminster , and the big funding settlement since devolution begin be go down the road to Holyrood . there be no hiding place there for the SNP . if people want real reform of the NHS in Scotland , they should vote for Scottish Labour under Anas Sarwar and Jackie Baillie . People can see here in Westminster the difference that new leadership provide . the shadow Minister laughably refer to new leadership in the conservative party . well , it be certainly lean and mean , but it be the same old conservative party . the only thing that the Conservatives have shrink be their own party . the only job that they have lay off be those of their poor party staff . the only thing that they be capable of change — [ interruption . ] well , come to think of it , I do not think that there be anything they be capable of change . instead they look over their shoulder at a party leader who can not even manage a five - aside team , let alone a country . the Conservatives be just so diminish as a party . I appreciate that it must be so painful for they to watch a Labour Government do the thing that they only ever talk about : reduce bloated state bureaucracy ; invest in defence ; reform our public service ; and bring down the welfare bill . the public be ask : " what be the point of the conservative party ? " I bet they be glad that they choose change with Labour . I applaud my right hon . friend for his leadership and for the reduction in waiting list , which we so desperately need . we all know that there be still a struggle with budget in the health service — my excellently run Honiton hospital be face a deficit for the first time in its history — so can he give more detail about how he will reform NHS procurement , so that we can use the purchasing power of the NHS to get more bang for our buck ? my hon . friend be absolutely right about the need to improve procurement . one thing that Attlee and Bevan could not have predict in 1948 be that the single - payer model of the national health service make it ideally place for this world of artificial intelligence , genomic , machine learning and big datum . we must unlock that potential so that we have new treatment , new technology , productivity gain and efficiency , but we also have to get the basic right on procurement . we have to change the culture of profligacy , routine deficit and routine over - spending . that be why , today , the leadership of NHS England have summon to London chair and chief executive from across the country to get an immediate grip on the £ 5 billion to £ 6 billion deficit that be already be bake in for the 2025 - 26 financial year . those chair and chief executive have just become so accustomed to the idea that government will just come in and bail they out . I say before the election that there would be no release of money in winter , because winter be predictable . the NHS be give additional resource and it must learn to live within its mean . despite howl of outrage before and since the election , I have keep to my word . I say that there would be accountability for people who think that the Government be there to bail they out . have come from local government , where that culture would never be tolerate , I and this Government be bring that same financial discipline to the NHS . we will not tolerate deficit . it be important that we get well value for money , while also make sure that , nationally , we be provide support through the procurement platform . that be how we will help the system deliver well value , and we will liberate frontline leader to focus on the thing that really matter , which be service for patient . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Secretary of State ' s NHS shake - up be well under way . many member would agree that the NHS use to be the envy of the world , but year of conservative failure have leave patient suffer and unable to get the care that they desperately need . I and my liberal Democrat colleague therefore welcome step to reform the NHS . the new leadership of the NHS have much to do , but can the Secretary of State advise the House whether new legislation will be need to scrap NHS England give that he tell the shadow Minister that it will take two year to complete this merger ? when will that new legislation , if it be require , be bring forward ? any attempt to fix the NHS will ultimately fail if we also do not address the crisis in social care . the Secretary of State must show the same urgency in reform social care as be be show on the NHS . where be that urgency ? long - promise cross - party talk have now be postpone indefinitely with no new date in sight . care provider be hang by a thread due to the rise cost of national insurance contribution . do the Secretary of State agree that any attempt to fix the NHS will prove futile if we ignore the elephant in the NHS waiting room that be the crisis in social care ? we will clear our diary for cross - party talk , so will the Secretary of State give we a date today ? I be grateful to the Liberal Democrats for those question . much of the change need can be deliver without the need for primary legislation , which be a relief because , as right hon . and hon . member will have notice , this Government have come into office with the most ambitious legislative programme of any incoming government . time be at a premium , give the business of this House and the other place . we will work immediately to move forward without change to primary legislation , but we will need to make they . I be work with the Leader of the House and business manager to ensure an appropriate timetable that enable we to do the thing that we need to do in a timely way , but that also safeguard the ambitious legislative programme that have already be set out . the hon . Lady be right to talk about the importance of social care . she ask where the urgency be . it be to be find in the immediate step that the Chancellor take on come into office to stabilise the finance of my Department , with an immediate release of funding . it come with the Budget , which deliver an extra £ 26 billion for the Department for Health and Social Care , protect funding specifically for social care and boost spending power for local authority . it come with the big expansion of carer ' s allowance since the 1970 , and an £ 86 million increase in the disabled facility grant not just from next year but release in January for the remainder of this financial year . the urgency be reflect in the Employment Rights Bill , which make provision for fair pay agreement to deal with the work - force crisis — work with employer and trade union to prepare for that legislation and the introduction of fair pay agreement be already under way . I regret that we have not convene cross - party talk . that be genuinely due to practicality on the part of a number of party involve . we will be in touch over the next week to make arrangement for Baroness Casey to engage with party across the House . I thank my right hon . friend for his excellent statement . as he know , I be a work gp in Stroud . we clinician be simply feed up with the micromanagement of our caring clinical role , and many hospital colleague feel the same . we want to be free to deliver excellent clinical care . do he think that the abolition of NHSE will reduce the admin task for doctor ? I do think that be the case . I also think that this be not just about form and function but about the opportunity for productivity gain through modern technology and practice . one of my frustration be that whenever we talk about the exciting frontier of life science and medical technology — this country ' s competitive advantage , and how we need to build on that position — I be greet with a weary sigh from poor frontline NHS staff , and manager for that matter , who say , " that ' s lovely , and we agree with you , but we ' d just like a machine that turn on reliably , and it would be nice to use system that do not require seven password to deal with a single patient . " I feel their pain . we will prioritise that investment in technology . finally , we do want to liberate the frontline , and I be grateful for the leadership that GPs have show in agree a contract with the Government for the first time since the pandemic , which contain substantial reform to benefit they and , even more importantly , their patient . we also have to liberate management in the NHS . as Lord Darzi say , it be not the case that there be too many manager , but there be layer and layer of bureaucracy between I as the Secretary of State and frontline staff . we have to liberate frontline staff and manager to help they be more effective , to manage their resource more efficiently and , most importantly , to deliver well and safe care . I call the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee . this be a bold change indeed . the job of my Committee be to help the Secretary of State to do it , so let I start by ask he to come in front of the Committee as quickly as possible — certainly before Easter — because there be a lot of detail that we need to drill down into . on a more substantive point , the right hon . Member mention the financial reset that Sir Jim Mackey announce to integrate care board just yesterday , which mean that they need to cut their running cost by 50 % . I be concerned that when my Buckinghamshire , Oxfordshire and Berkshire West ICB struggle with money , the first thing it cut be the place - base team . if we be to deliver the neighbourhood nhs that the Secretary of State and I both want , those be not the team to cut . will he send a signal to icb that cost saving should not be at the expense of the broad shift in the 10 - year plan ? first , I give the Chair of the Select Committee my assurance that I would be delighted to appear in front of her Committee at the early opportunity — that mean soon . I appreciate that it will want to scrutinise these change in more detail , and I would welcome the constructive challenge that it offer . I also reassure she that the direction that we be give to frontline leader be to deliver the three big shift in our 10 - year plan , and to ensure that as we take immediate step to bring the finance under control , we do so in a way that lay the firm foundation for the future of the nhs that we need to build . my cautionary note to member across the House be that when we ask frontline leader to reform and to change way of working , sometimes that require not just change to the bureaucracy as it be — the easy and lower hang fruit — but service reconfiguration in the interest of patient outcome and well use of taxpayer ' money . sometimes , they get those change wrong . I have successfully campaign against closure of service such as the King George accident and emergency department , which should not have close and where we win the case on clinical ground . sometimes , let we be honest , the public can get anxious , and member of Parliament feel duty bind to act as megaphone and amplifier for public concern . it be important that we support and engage with local NHS leader . by all mean , we should scrutinise , challenge and ask question , but we must give local leader the support to do the task that we be ask of they on behalf of patient and taxpayer . the power that I have to intervene in those frontline service reconfiguration be one that I will use only in the most exceptional and necessary case , and that be why I have not use they once in the past eight month . the crisis in our NHS go deep . I be sure that the Secretary of State agree that it be an existential crisis that pose a threat to the future of the nhs if fundamental change do not happen . while I strongly welcome today ' s statement , what assurance can he give I and the House that the right people will be in the right place in leadership position to drive the fundamental change that be necessary ? that be an excellent question . we be build an outstanding transformational team with Sir Jim Mackey , which will be announce very shortly . it will bring together some of the good leader across the country , and expertise from outside the NHS , to drive the scale and pace of transformation that be necessary . my hon . friend be right to say that it be existential , because we can not allow the curve of cost and demand to continue to rise to the extent that it be . the NHS ' s long - term workforce plan have one in nine people in our country work for the NHS . on the current trajectory , in 50 year ' time , 100 % of the public would be work for the NHS . that be clearly not a sustainable position . I tell people who resist this reform out of love for the NHS not to kill it with kindness . we have to bend the curve of cost and demand to ensure that our health service be sustainable for the long term on the equitable foundation of a public service , free at the point of use , that we will always defend . I also say to my hon . friend on the government back Benches that if we do not get this right , goodness know what will come next . the Leader of the Opposition say that she want a debate on the funding model for the NHS . the leader of the Reform party — I be not sure whether he be the Leader of the Opposition yet — say that he be up for anything . I be sure he be . that should worry we . to those who want to debate the funding model of our NHS and the equitable principle of it be a public service , free at the point of use , I say that we be happy to have that debate but the Government be unequivocal : under Labour , the NHS be not for sale . it will always be a public service , free at the point of use , so that when people fall ill , they never have to worry about the bill . may I commend the boldness of today ' s announcement ? if the NHS be to be turn around , it will need radical reform . if the result of today be to replace bureaucratic overcentralisation with political overcentralisation , it will fail . but if we move to the decentralised model that we have for the police and school , it could be the start of a real transformation . will the Secretary of State give the House more detail about the change he have in mind ? be we go to get rid of the central target that make the NHS the most micromanage system in the world and make it impossible for manager to deliver real change on the ground because they be work to about a hundred operational target ? if that be the case , and we be go to decentralise the NHS , do the Secretary of State agree that there remain a vital role for a reform Care Quality Commission to call out poor care whenever it find it ? I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for that thoughtful question . let I say two thing to he . first , democratic accountability matter , both in term of patient outcome and value for taxpayer ' money . one of the thing that I , my labour and many of my conservative predecessor have reflect on a lot over many year be what the role of the Secretary of State , and Government , be in a national health service where clinical decision should always be clinically lead . it be the Secretary of State ' s responsibility to be the champion for patient and for taxpayer and to ensure that the system as a whole deliver well outcome for patient and well value for taxpayer . the argument that I have start , however , which have ruffle some feather within the NHS and even more so with some of our country ' s most love charity in recent month , be the fallacy that the Secretary of State can or should just fire endless instruction into the system , as if a Secretary of State or , for that matter , an NHS England could just pull some big lever and drive change in such a vast and complex system . that be a falsehood . of course , we should set national strategic priority on behalf of the public . we should ensure that there be more transparency and information so that patient , community and staff can hold the system and themselves to account to improve performance . however , the overcentralisation have to stop . in future , it will be for the Department and the NHS nationally to do the thing that only the national health service can do , provide the enabler for the system as a whole . what we be preside over and embark on , however , be the big decentralisation of power in the history of our national health service . that will put more power into the hand of frontline leader and clinician , but even more fundamental and transformational , more power into the hand of patient . if we get that right , we will have an NHS that can truly be the envy of the world . if people continue to indulge in the fallacy that more target from the centre or more — or indeed , less — political control be the answer , we will fail . the right hon . Gentleman also mention the CQC . it have get itself into a terrible mess and I know that that be not what he intend when he rightly make the decision to create the Care Quality Commission . that be why Sir Julian Hartley know that he have our full support , not just in turn around the CQC as it be , but in reform it so that it can be the good guarantee and safeguard of quality that patient and the public deserve . Dr Penny Dash ' s forthcoming review finding will also help to drive that reform agenda at pace . I thank the Secretary of State for make the statement today . I want to echo the thought of the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) that it would be helpful to see he in front of the Select Committee to outline his vision for NHS England . will he tell we today how the new structure of the NHS will help we deliver truly excellent social care and also primary care , and what driver he can use to make that happen ? it always worry I when my hon . friend say he want to see I in front of the Select Committee because he do not pull his punch , despite be on the Government side of the House . let I reassure he that on primary care , I hope that we be begin to turn what I think have be a deep anger , frustration and anxiety among primary care leader about the state of the system as it be and a pessimism about its future into increase amount of quiet optimism and hope . I think GPs can see we be walk the talk , with the big funding uplift in a generation and the fact that we have work constructively with GP leader to reform the contract and agree that far , more radical reform be need together . we will be embark on that under the auspex of the 10 - year plan . as well as deliver that significant achievement with GPs , the Minister for Care , my hon . friend the Member for Aberafan Maesteg ( Stephen Kinnock ) , be also in the very final stage of work with pharmacist to stabilise the community pharmacy sector , which be vital for the NHS ' s future as a neighbourhood service . may I also reassure my hon . friend the Member for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) that under the auspex of the 10 - year plan for health , notwithstanding Baroness Casey ' s work on the long - term future of social care , we have an eye on social care and the relationship between health and social care ? People will not , therefore , be wait until next year for the first Casey report or , indeed , later for the final Casey report on the long term to see action from this Government on social care , particularly as it relate to the NHS . I welcome the ambition of the Secretary of State . one area that I ask he to focus on be the future of the UK Health Security Agency . over the last 15 year , it have evolve from the Health Protection Agency to Public Health England and now to the ukhsa . I find it impossible , both as a Treasury Minister and as a constituency MP , to penetrate the decision - make process around resource allocation , which I now believe be duplicative , as a move to a new site in Essex be be contemplate . that be an area where the Secretary of State can demonstrate to my constituent in Salisbury and at Porton down that he mean business and can resolve the future of UKHSA once and for all . I would be delighted to speak far with the right hon . Gentleman , draw on that valuable experience both as a constituency MP and as a Treasury Minister — always , for the record , my favourite people to work with — what ' s wrong with DCMS ? and my friend at DCMS with their considerable spending power . no , I will stick with the Treasury in my order of favourite , thank you very much . I know where my bread be butter . to return to the point make by the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) , I thank Dame Jenny Harries for her leadership of UKHSA . we be recruit for an outstanding replacement and successor , and that be an opportunity to look in the wide context at some of the first principle . the right hon . Gentleman mention the specific , traditional Porton down versus harlow decision , which have be run around the system so long that be now use in a case study for senior civil servant recruitment . the bad decision be indecision . it have plague we for too long and I hope we can soon report back to the House with a decision on that for everyone ' s benefit . I welcome the statement today from the Secretary of State . clearly , there be massive duplication of function across the many regulatory , national , local and regional NHS body and huge room for efficiency . I want to press the Secretary of State on two point . first , will he assure I that the bonfire of bureaucracy will not stop effective local management of NHS trust and community setting , as IPPR have find that locally the NHS be poorly and under - manage and clinical staff be backfille admin and management role ? secondly , as he mention , the roll - out of digital technology have be far too slow , with NHS Digital ' s move into NHS England not direct change fast enough , so how will the change ensure that the Department of Health and Social Care grip the digital roll - out , accelerate it and ensure the proper integration of NHS digital function ? that be a great question from my hon . friend . we have to give people the tool to do the job . the Prime Minister set I and my hon . friend in the Department an enormous challenge on behalf of the public . in turn , I be set an enormous challenge for NHS leader at every level , but particularly for frontline NHS leader . we have to give they the tool to do the job in term of datum platform and the technology that they be give to work with , ensure that they have access not just to cut - edge treatment and medical technology , but to the back - office productivity support that can drive efficiency and improvement and , frankly , liberate manager and frontline staff from the arcane system they be work with . some of the very good people I have meet in the last few year , shadow this portfolio and now hold it in government , be NHS leader , especially on the frontline . it be my responsibility to give they the tool to do the job . that be not just about financial resource ; it mean bulldoze through some of the regulatory barrier and overcentralise instruction that stop they make decision in the good interest of patient , in term of clinical pathway and value for taxpayer . I have give they an undertaking that I will have their back , both on the decision that they will have to take on the frontline and on bulldoze through the national bureaucracy that be tie they up in knot when we need to set they free . I congratulate the Secretary of State on the change announce today to cut unnecessary waste and bureaucracy . we all know and agree that healthcare should remain free at the point of delivery and , of course , that the NHS need reform . just last Saturday , I be in a care home in Boston with a lady — an expert — who know Melanie Weatherley , and she be tell I about the unnecessary process within NHS England on the frontline that constrain good care in care home , impose unnecessary constraint on ambulance and block a & E ward . will the Secretary of State confirm that the change and reform will include unnecessary process on the frontline in care home ? I can certainly give the hon . Gentleman that assurance . we have to cut through the unnecessary red tape that tie leader and frontline staff up in knot , and we be absolutely determined to do that . regulatory reform will form a big part of this Department ' s agenda and the wide Government ' s agenda . as to an nhs free at the point of use , he almost say it with a straight face . I be sure that he mean every word he say . I think he might want to have a word with his party leader , who be his successor and — who know ? — perhaps his predecessor . we must remember that NHS England come out of the Tory Government ' s reform that be intend to privatise the NHS . I want to thank NHS England staff for their work . I be sorry about the way in which they have hear this announcement , because it be their job that be be put at risk . we have to ensure , however , that we be not replicate NHS England across the icb of our country , and that icb be also reform to transform the NHS through the three shift that will be place on they with the publication of the 10 - year plan . how will my right hon . friend ensure that we have the machinery to hold the system to account , but also to put those reform in place ? my hon . friend be absolutely right : if we just replicate NHS England as it be with all the challenge in its set - up in icb across the land , we will have fail . frankly , if we replicate NHS England and the Department as they be today just in one organisation , we will have fail to meet the challenge of change . it need to feel and act like a completely new organisation , culture and way of work to modernise the state , so that if Disraeli , Gladstone , Churchill or Attlee walk into Whitehall at the end of this government , it would not look so much like the Government they work in during the 19th and 20th century . that be the reality of Whitehall today ; it be not a reflection on the people who work in it , but it show why it need to change , and that be also true of the NHS . I look forward to work with ICB leader to reform their way of working , clarify their priority , give they clear marching order and ensure that they can deliver . finally , my hon . friend mention the staff of NHS England — indeed , this affect staff in my Department , too — and I thank she for the care she have show . Change be always disruptive and it can be scary , and of course that be particularly the case when job loss be involve . I want to acknowledge that on the Floor of the House , as I have to staff across both organisation this morning . I know that the Permanent Secretary and the chief executive of NHS England have do so in recent day , and I will be hold a town hall with staff next week . this really be not a reflection on they . in fact , I think they will recognise in my description of our way of work the many thing that frustrate they . none the less , they be dedicated and talented people , and some of the good people I have ever work with in any walk of life or career work in this system . I look forward to work with they in the come week and month with the same dedication and professionalism they have always show , so that we can all look back on this time with pride , know that we be part of the team that take the NHS from the bad crisis in its history to get it back on its foot and make it fit for the future . do the Secretary of State agree that one of the bad and most intractable problem that the founder of the NHS have to deal with be the involvement of medical practitioner and consultant who be use to receive a private income in a national service where they would not receive anything like the same remuneration ? if he agree , would he accept that there be a similar situation with NHS dentistry today ? the Darzi report say : " there be enough dentist in England , just not enough dentist willing to do enough NHS work , which impact provision for the poor in society . " how do he think his reform will help address that particular crisis , on which member like myself and my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest West ( Sir Desmond Swayne ) be be consistently and rightly lobby by such formidable organisation as the New Forest branch of the woman ' s institute ? NHS dentistry be in a terrible state and , in fact , in many part of the country it barely exist . there be lot of reason for that , and it be a source of constant astonishment to I that the dentistry budget be underspent year after year despite that situation . the Minister for Care be work with the British Dental Association to reform the contract . I know that member be frustrate at the pace , and so be I . we be try to clear an enormous challenge ; it be not go to be easy , but we be commit to work with the profession . we be roll out the 700 , 000 urgent dentist appointment and supervised toothbrushing , as we promise and as the BDA have welcome , but we have a lot more to do . that require work with the profession — not simply tinker with the system as it be , but fundamentally rethink it and how we rebuild it into an NHS dentistry service that we can be proud of . I welcome the statement , particularly the commitment to ensure that as much money in the NHS as possible be spend on the frontline , where it can really affect patient outcome . nowhere be that more need than in my constituency of Dartford , which be the fast grow town in the UK . that extra population be impose a huge strain on our local district general hospital at Dare nt Valley , despite the excellent effort of the staff there . could the Secretary of State outline how the change will support the shift we need to see from service be deliver in the hospital to the community , thereby relieve the strain on hospital like Dare nt Valley ? the frustrating thing be that we be deliver the wrong care in the wrong place at the wrong time , which be deliver poor outcome for patient and poor value for taxpayer . People can not get a GP appointment , for example , which might cost the NHS £ 40 , and then they end up in accident and emergency , which could cost £ 400 . if people can not find a bed for a delay discharge and rehabilitation outside of hospital , they end up stuck in a hospital bed , waste away at great cost . in fact , when I be up in Carlisle early this year , such intermediate care be be offer by a local social care provider , commission by the NHS , at half the cost and of a much well quality than the hospital bed that patient have be discharge from . that shift to the community be about deliver well outcome for patient and well value for taxpayer , and that will be reflect in our 10 - year plan . I declare an interest as the vice - chair of the newly form all - party parliamentary group on emergency care . a & E staffing across the country be dangerously low , especially at night , put unacceptable pressure on staff , who warn persistently about the risk to patient safety . hundred of keen applicant be be turn away from emergency medicine training . last year , there be 359 place for 2 , 718 applicant . follow this announcement , how quickly will emergency care and a & E department see change and have more permanent staff and consultancy place , but especially more training place ? we will shortly set out our emergency care improvement plan so that we can deliver the year - on - year improvement that people deserve . the long waiting time , not just in emergency department but in ambulance response time and across the entire system , be completely unacceptable . I refuse to use term such as " temporary escalation space " to describe the true grim reality of corridor care . that be a shameful situation , and I be genuinely sorry that patient be be treat in those condition and that staff have to suffer the moral injury of work in those condition . from the moment we come into government , we have work to ensure that we get through the winter as well as we could . that be reflect in the fact that , despite the winter pressure , waiting list fall five month in a row throughout the winter . on the target and standard challenge set out by the Royal College of Emergency Medicine , ahead of the winter I be very clear with frontline leader that patient safety must come ahead of performance target — particularly the four - hour target — but the 12 - hour target be absolutely related to patient safety , as I think the royal college would agree . we must work together to get wait of long than 12 hour down as a priority , because those wait be directly link to safety and patient outcome . rise — Order . I gently ask right hon . and hon . member , and indeed the Secretary of State , to keep their question and answer short so that I can get everyone in . two gp practice have tell I that they be wait for section 106 money to be release so that they can improve their facility , but that it have be stick between decision - maker . will the Secretary of State outline how the change will help to release those kind of delay and finally allow North West Leicestershire resident to get the facility that they deserve ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that example . she be welcome to contact my office to see if we can expedite that kind of decision - making . in fact , member will have see the work that the Deputy Prime Minister be do to speed up decision - making in local government , which have an impact and a bearing on the NHS . we will work together to speed that up , so that where resource be available , we get they out and deliver change as quickly as possible . my constituent be particularly concerned about the very bureaucratic approval process for the new hospital programme — through investment committee , then the regional NHSE team , the a department , then NHS capital assurance , then a joint investment committee , then the Treasury and then , finally , Ministers . can the Secretary of State guarantee that this decision , which I welcome , will speed up that process , and that the business case for the multi - storey car park at the Queen Elizabeth hospital in King ' s Lynn will be approve so that work start this year ? the hon . Gentleman make a fair challenge on the bureaucratic nature of decision - making . we be work with Treasury Ministers and colleague across Government to take an axe to that unnecessary bureaucracy . he will be absolutely fume when he find out who be responsible for it . I be conscious that my former colleague at NHS England will be concern about today ' s announcement , but I be very confident that the Secretary of State will do all he can to support they . it be an inescapable fact that the 2012 reorganisation lead to inefficient layer of management in the NHS , deliver poor care and great cost to the taxpayer . how do he plan to cut excessive layer of bureaucracy , get resource to the frontline and , crucially , deliver well care for the people of this country ? that be a brilliant question . we have put in place a transformation team , lead by Sir Jim Mackey , which we will work with to start fundamentally change the way the NHS work , by shift more power , resource and responsibility out of whitehall and close to the frontline and the community where decision be make , and by get rid of the unnecessary bureaucracy that drive patient and staff to distraction . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement . we all want to see a well - run nhs that deliver for patient , but as he know , patient be be treat in corridor , staff be severely overstretch and too many people can not get access to a gp or a dentist when they need one . in that context , I be concern to read in the medium last week that there be plan for £ 7 billion of cut to service , and for icb to be ask to cut cost by 50 % . can he reassure we that , as we go into the new financial year , we will not see cut to frontline service ? when I meet the chief executive of Norfolk and Waveney ICB next week , will I hear that cut to frontline service be be consider as a result of Government budget ? the report relate to the deficit send into NHS England ahead of the 2025 - 26 financial year . those be completely unaffordable for the NHS and completely unrealistic . those financial plan be be revise as we speak , which be why leader have gather in London today to receive that message and that set of instruction . I be ask frontline leader to improve service and reform way of work , and they will have my support in do that . as for the resource that be go in , I gently point out that the investment that the Chancellor unlock for the NHS and social care in her Budget dwarf that which be promise in the Green party ' s manifesto . I hold a public consultation in my constituency on the future of the NHS . participant be crystal clear that we need to cut bureaucracy and get resource to the frontline . when they talk about the frontline , they mean not just hospital but people out in the community , and , crucially for my constituency , GP practice . will the Secretary of State share more about how he intend to make that shift ? there be 889 million reason for GPs to be cheerful . that amount be the allocation for general practice before Christmas , and it have result in fruitful negotiation with GP leader that will deliver the necessary reform and well access for patient , particularly through online access to modern appointment booking . that be something to which we have become accustomed in every other aspect of our life , and the NHS should be no different . it be an inescapable fact that one top - down reform be be fix by another — one that will last about two year , accord to the statement . although I wish the reform every success , we must recognise that the experience of the NHS in Wales show that reform on its own be no guarantee of success . the Secretary of State rightly say that change be hard , and it be inescapable , I be afraid , that while this reform be ongoing , the NHS leadership will be hugely distract by turf war , redundancy and the development of new working practice . what step will he take to prevent that distraction from have a negative effect on frontline service ? the Government have come in with an ambitious reform agenda . as we embark on that reform , we be cut NHS waiting list — we have do that five month in a row . we be reform the GP contract — those negotiation have successfully conclude . we be about to conclude community pharmacy , too . we have put in place a transformation team who be experience frontline leader with demonstrable track record — particularly in the case of Sir Jim Mackey — of deliver those change outcome . there will always be people who say that it be too hard , too difficult or a distraction , but that be how we have end up with this status quo ; that be how the conservative party preside over the long waiting list and the low patient satisfaction on record while spend staggering amount of public money . More money and no reform be not the answer ; the lesson of the previous Labour Government be that investment plus reform deliver result . that be what this Labour Government be do . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement and pay tribute to NHS professional in Harlow , particularly those at the Princess Alexandra hospital , for their incredible hard work every single day . do he agree that NHS staff , who work incredibly hard , be fail by an overly bureaucratic and fragmented system , and that spiral staff cost be partly a result of the need for additional agency staff ? we absolutely need to reduce the cost of agency staff in the NHS . that cost the taxpayer billion , and that money could be well spend on ensure that we have the right staff in the right place , on well term and condition , and with permanent contract . where we do need flexibility , we should drive it through the NHS bank . we be determined to reform the way that work and deliver well staffing , well outcome for patient and well value for taxpayer . I welcome any measure to reduce the bureaucratic overload in the NHS , so I congratulate the Secretary of State on come forward with his bold plan . we must also take a sledgehammer to the business case process , which frustrate the delivery of service and new building for the NHS . will he consider bring nhs - own land into use for new care facility and step - down hospital , for example , so that we can free up hospital bed and get people into the care they need at a much low cost ? the hon . member be absolutely right : the estate be vast , it be underutilise , and we need to sweat our asset more effectively . we also need to reform bureaucratic process . there be lot of reason why we need to have tough control on thing such as spending , procurement and value for money , to ensure that there be appropriate and effective use of public money . but business do not operate in this way ; they be able to counter fraud , waste and poor value for money , and they do it much fast . that be what the NHS need to do . across the public sector , we need to use our estate far more effectively to deliver well value and well service for the public . I thank the Health Secretary for the announcement he have make . as he rightly say , staff work incredibly hard and deserve our thank , but we all recognise the huge strain that they and the organisation have be under . the health service be consistently raise as one of the top concern by resident in my constituency . can he share how today ' s announcement , along with other measure he have previously announce , will build an nhs that be there when people across Cramlington and Killingworth need it ? we have to deliver improved service for patient in every part of the country . her constituency and mine , which be on the London - Essex border , will have different need , contexts and set - up , and service may need to be shape differently in order to meet those need , but the standard should be consistent , the quality should be good and the safety should be guarantee at all time . that be a far cry from where we be , and I genuinely think that decision about service for her constituent will be far well take much close to her constituent and her community than here in Whitehall . that be why , as we be deliver month by month and year by year improvement in service for patient in every part of the country , we will also deliver the big devolution of power in the history of the national health service . I really welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement , and I be particularly keen that he look at the multiple layer of sign - off and the bureaucracy that sometimes forget patient be at the other end of it . hospital in England have have to rely on charitable fundraising to buy some of the most cutting - edge radiotherapy machine because of NHS England ' s policy and bureaucracy . this year , highly advanced machine such as the CyberKnife , which have treat thousand of nhs cancer patient over the past 10 year , will need upgrading , but NHS England be refuse to include they in this year ' s funding because they be all buy by charity . the Secretary of State talk about give people the tool to do the job . could he change that policy , so that our hospital do not have to continue rely on charity for the late technology ? this Government commit in our manifesto to double the number of diagnostic scanner , and we will deliver that over the course of this Parliament . nhs charity have a valuable role to play . Philanthropy have a valuable role to play as an additional source of support to the NHS . when public funding be as tight as it be , we need to look at how we can maximise the benefit and the impact of bring together source of public investment , private investment , voluntary sector and philanthropic investment to deliver the most bang for the buck . without know the detail of the specific case the hon . Lady mention , I would not want to comment too strongly , except to say that we be committed to double diagnostic scanner through public fund , but I be not sure I necessarily share the view that NHS charity do not have a role to play . I know from my experience of work on the NHS frontline how hard it have become over the year to get basic thing do . nurse and matron spend hour and hour get basic change make to their workplace on the frontline . I therefore welcome my right hon . friend ' s announcement . will he ensure that by cut bureaucracy , we can get more resource to where direct patient care take place , which will help with the retention of nurse and healthcare assistant and see more patient be treat quick and get the care they need ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . some of the good innovation and improvement for patient I have see have be lead by frontline clinical team that have have great executive leader behind they , give they the freedom and the tool to do the job . I hope that , as a result of these reform , not only will we see the result for patient in the data , but staff and patient will feel the outcome and the difference in their experience of work in or be treat by the NHS . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement and for his positivity on get waiting list down and make the change that be need . he refer to Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland . he will know that we in Northern Ireland be have the very same problem that he be sort out today for England . I know that he be always keen to see the positivity that come out of this place be share right across this nation . will he have discussion with the relevant Northern Ireland Minister , Mike Nesbitt , in relation to health back home , to ensure that we can follow the directive here , to make our health service in Northern Ireland every bit as good as this one will be ? I be recently in contact with Mike Nesbitt , offer some of that support and offering to work together to help improve the quality of health service in Northern Ireland , recognise that we have advantage of scale here in England . while recognise the devolution settlement , we want to work closely , just as we be work closely with our friend in the Labour Government in Wales to help they improve their service , and also learn from some of the thing that the Welsh NHS do well than England . I commend this statement and thank the Secretary of State and his Department for the excellent work they be do . it be not a moment too soon in Norfolk , because we have fail access to dentistry , it be difficult to get a gp appointment , and both the hospital that serve my constituent have RAAC — reinforce aerated autoclaved concrete . with that in mind , may I invite the Health Secretary to Norfolk to meet healthcare professional , to discuss the cumulative impact of so many challenge and to discuss how these reform can help improve patient care ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for that question ; that be a very kind way of remind I that I have already make such a commitment and have not follow through , so let I rectify that immediately . I thank the Secretary of State for the boldness of his statement . it will take courage to bring about the change that my constituent desperately want , and it be great that Labour be show that courage . my constituent , particularly those in Killamarsh , really struggle with access to GPs . could the Secretary of State assure I that this will redirect vital resource from bureaucracy to serve those in need on the frontline ? I can give my hon . friend that assurance . that be the objective of what we be do : to make well use of taxpayer ' money so that we can deliver well care for patient . that be not through bloated central bureaucracy , but through more frontline capability and service . I draw member ' attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . of the more than 26 year that I work in the NHS , six and a half be in NHS England , in its brilliant strategy team and with brilliant people . that be why my heart go out to so many people who will have insecurity about their job follow this announcement , even though I believe it to be the right one . this come after year and year of chop and change at NHS Improvement and NHS England , as political leadership have switch from one person to another . one of the thing I be concern about be the need to ensure that clinical leadership be still hear at the centre . as a nurse , I find it hard to get into NHS England . doctor find it easy in their career structure . move NHS England function into the Department , and move off NHS term and condition , will make it hard for nurse , ally health professional and other clinician work in the NHS . what will my right hon . friend do to ensure that the clinical voice come right into the centre of Whitehall , along with the patient voice ? I be extremely grateful to my hon . friend , and I echo what he say about the talent of people at NHS England . I do not take this decision with the Prime Minister lightly . indeed , it be not my instinct come into government , but it have be shape by what I have see and experience over the past eight month . clinical leadership be vital , and that be not just doctor ; it be also nurse and other clinical leadership . we have a brilliant chief nursing officer , who remain in place and will be part of that clinical leadership team . I can assure my hon . friend that we do not want any political interference in what should be decision for clinician . what we need be the right political leadership to give that clinical leadership the tool , power and freedom to do the job that only they can do , and that they do well . this welcome reform can not come quickly enough in Warwickshire where councillor , local health campaigner , I and other have be make the case for a doctor - lead urgent treatment centre at our local hospital , the Hospital of St Cross , to complement the excellent nurse - lead and GP out of hour service , but many of my constituent be concerned about have to travel to the large hospital in Coventry and the long waiting time they find there . the integrate care board have a review of urgent care under way in Warwickshire , but I still do not know when it will be complete and my constituent want to know when urgent care at our local hospital will be upgrade . do my right hon . friend agree that his reform to NHS England should equip icb more effectively to respond to local need ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his perseverance in bob for so long ; they should prescribe it on the NHS . I say to my hon . friend that this be why I strongly believe in local decision making to make sure service be configure and design to meet the differ need of local community while provide the same standard and quality of care in every part of the country . he also describe the frustration of people who will often , include in the future , necessarily be live some distance from their general hospital ; that be why we have to shift out of hospital with the NHS be not just the national health service but a neighbourhood health service , with as many service as possible close to people ' s home and indeed in people ' s home . that be the exciting future that be up for grab , and that be the future we will realise thank to the reform we be make today . I be delighted they have be greet with such support right across the House . victory in Europe and Japan : 80th anniversary with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I shall make a statement about the Government ' s plan to mark the 80th anniversary of VE Day and VJ Day . this year , 2025 , mark 80 year since the end of the second world war — 80 year since victory in Europe on 8 May 1945 and since victory over Japan on 15 August . " in all our long history we have never see a great day than this , " be the word of Winston Churchill when he mark the end of fighting in Europe on VE Day . huge crowd gather outside to celebrate , with thousand flock to Buckingham Palace and spontaneous street party erupt across the nation . our late Majesty Queen Elizabeth II join in the celebration , a princess at the time , tiptoe out of the palace with her sister Princess Margaret to join the celebration on the street of London . " all of we " she say , " be sweep along by tide of happiness and relief . " the sacrifice make over the war be great . without the combine effort of the ally force from Britain , the Commonwealth and beyond , the way of life we enjoy today and the value we hold dear would not have be possible . the total number of allied death , injury and capture exceed million , and thousand of civilian lose their life here at home . we be proud to remember the last legacy of peace they fight so hard to secure . each of we , in every community , have a direct connection to those who serve in the second world war . those service personnel who be call up and ask to risk their life for our freedom be not stranger : they be our parent , grandparent and the ancestor of our neighbour . I have always be very proud of my grandad , who serve in the RAF , and I know the country feel equally proud of every veteran who risk , and often tragically pay , the ultimate sacrifice as part of that terrible conflict . it be the ancestor of our neighbourhood and community who lead the effort on the home front , child who be evacuate , woman who step into essential role , and of course the Bevin boy , many from Barnsley , who work down the pit to power the war effort . as time pass and we approach 80 year between life today and the end of the second world war , the live memory of those who experience the war fade far into history . this year ' s commemoration of VE Day may well be the last where veteran who serve their country during the second world war can be in attendance , and my generation will be among the last to have the experience of speak directly to family member who fight for their country or contribute to the effort at home . it be up to all of we , here today and across the country , to keep their story alive . just as people take to the street in 1945 , it be with great pride that I can announce the measure this Government will take to mark the anniversary in 2025 . all of we have memory of how national moment of celebration can bring we together , from the olympic opening ceremony in London 2012 to the Queen ' s jubilee celebration . these event unite we in our history , our story , and our common value . this year ' s anniversary will be no exception . Clement Attlee say in 1943 : " here in this country , although our political division be deep , in time of need we be able to transcend they in the interest of the whole community . " the event this year will be a timely opportunity to remember those communal value : pull together , a fight spirit in the face of adversity , and compassion for our neighbour . I be delighted to confirm that the Government have announce a programme of activity up and down the UK . celebration will start on the early May bank holiday , Monday 5 May , with the Cenotaph drape in flag overnight follow by a military procession and flypast . street party will be hold across the country , echo the celebration of 80 year ago . as part of this , we all know the power of food to bring people together , and we will be work with partner include the Big Lunch to make sure as many part of the UK as possible can celebrate . we be launch our new initiative , tip top town , a call to action for community and volunteer group to come together to get their town or village ready for the day , whether through bunting , litter picking or crochet bonnet for post box . the next day , iconic building will light up in commemoration , and 25 , 000 ceramic poppy will cascade from the Tower of London , recreate the beautiful installation from 2014 . on 7 May there will be a special performance from the Parliament choir , with ticket available to the general public . and on VE Day itself , Thursday 8 May , there will be a service at Westminster Abbey , where we will come together to reflect on the value the second world war generation fight to protect . celebration will then conclude with a VE Day concert deliver by the BBC , mirror the spontaneous celebration that take place in 1945 and feature a mix of music , poetry and speak word . on VJ Day , Friday 15 August , the Royal British Legion will lead the nation in honour those who fight and die during the war in the far east , with a service at the National Memorial Arboretum . veteran will rightly be at the heart of our commemoration and the Government be honour to be work with the Royal British Legion and other partner to bring this to life . indeed , to prepare for these event we be launch our " letter to love one " initiative to encourage schoolchildren and family member to explore their family history , look for old letter and artefact to help they learn about life during wartime and share they on our website . this will come together at a joint event at the Imperial War Museum North with the National Theatre . to inspire young people to learn about what life be like during wartime Britain , we be announce " our Shared Story " , bring together a range of educational resource , include material for school from the Royal British Legion , call " I ' ll remember . " " the Next Morning " will be a brand new National Theatre production write by award - win screen writer and playwright James Graham , which will focus on the hope , dream and ambition of young people after the second world war . and an immersive augment reality experience will bring moment from VE Day to life . we want the whole UK to feel include and involve in VE and VJ Day celebration , wherever they live and whoever they be . I know event and service be happen across the devolved nation , include community initiative in support of VE / VJ Day activity . in Wales , a VE Day event will take place at the Senedd on 8 May , and Scotland ' s Salute concert , organise by Royal British Legion Scotland and Poppyscotland at Usher Hall in Edinburgh , will take place on 6 May . in Northern Ireland , grant have be make available by a number of council to fund community initiative in support of VE / VJ Day activity . special exhibition , talk and lecture will take place in museum across VE Week in all part of the UK . I thank my counterpart in the Scottish , Welsh and Northern Irish Governments for their support and engagement , which will ensure all part of the United Kingdom will mark this 80th anniversary . we will be work with the Commonwealth War Graves Commission on the " For Evermore Tour " , which will focus on the story and experience of Commonwealth soldier , many of whom continue to fight in the Pacific after the war on the european front have come to an end . together , we will make sure the legacy of those who give their life will continue to be tell for generation to come . I be sure the House will join I in look forward to these commemoration as an opportunity to come together as a nation , as Britain do 80 year ago , to honour veteran and reflect on the freedom and value that the second world war generation fight so hard to protect . I commend this statement to the House . I thank the Minister for her excellent statement and for advance sight of it . as we approach the anniversary of VE Day and VJ Day , we look forward to the whole nation come together to celebrate the end of the fighting in Europe , the surrender of Japan , victory over our adversary and the end of the second world war . at time like this , we see Britain at its good , when the whole nation come together to pay tribute to a generation who make unimaginable sacrifice , often lay down their life in the service of this country and in the service of good over evil . both Victory in Europe Day and victory over Japan Day should forever be etch in our memory . on VE Day , million rejoice across the western world , relieve that the year of conflict and immense hardship be finally come to an end . million of people up and down the country , include our late Queen Elizabeth II , come together to celebrate the end of fighting in Europe . for a long time , Britain stand alone as it stand up to evil , but with support from our ally , we defeat Nazi Germany and liberate Europe from fascism . but while the celebration on the street go on , thousand of British , Commonwealth and ally armed force be still involve in brutal fighting in the far east . we be forever in debt to those brave soul who fight to defend this country . I pay tribute to all those who be currently serve in our armed force . from put themselves in harm ' s way to spend time away from their family , their service and sacrifice deserve our deep gratitude . I reflect on those who continue to give their life for our country , include individual like Rifleman Joseph Murphy , previously of my constituency , who lose his life in Afghanistan while try to carry a fall comrade to safety , and my old school friend , Flight Lieutenant Rakesh Chauhan , an RAF officer who also lose his life in Afghanistan . one of the hard decision we will ever have to make in this House be the decision to send our brave man and woman to war . I reflect on the cry of anguish from Rakesh ' s parent , which still reverberate within my heart . I also reflect on the difficult decision that we will have to make , the sacrifice of our brave soldier , from today and yesteryear , and the pain of the love one who be leave behind . to all those serve , those who have serve and those who have sacrifice , we say thank you . we also remember the sacrifice of soldier from the Commonwealth . when I walk down whitehall , I often take a moment to look at the statue of Field Marshal Sir William Slim , the commander of the Fourteenth Army — the " forget Army " . the sacrifice of his troop at crucial battle like Imphal and Kohima can never be forget , and I hope event like the commemoration of VJ Day will help to reinforce our remembrance of the sacrifice of british and Commonwealth troop in defeat Japan . by the end of the second world war , over 2 . 5 million soldier from India have volunteer in the fight against evil . these celebration must mark the heroic contribution of soldier from modern - day India , Pakistan , Bangladesh , Australia , New Zealand , the Caribbean , Africa and Canada . those troop , who be from Christian , hindu , muslim , jewish , Sikh and other faith and background , fight side by side , irrespective of race or religion , to stand up for the value that we all hold dear : freedom , liberty and the rule of law , so I welcome the Minister ' s announcement on our share story . the story of the second world war should be pass from generation to generation , and our young people must know about the sacrifice that be make in generation past , as they will have to face the challenge of tomorrow . as we celebrate the conclusion of the second world war , it be right that we focus our mind on Europe ' s first major conflict since 1945 . it be hard to recall in recent memory a time of such danger and uncertainty . our world have profoundly change , and because of the tyranny of Vladimir Putin and his unjustified barbaric invasion of Ukraine , the spectre of war loom over Europe once again . the force shape our world — a warmonger in the Kremlin , conflict in the middle east and extremism poison young mind — mean that we must value our armed force today , now more than ever . when we have these celebration , I hope we can also celebrate peace in Ukraine . I put on record the Opposition ' s wholehearte support for the Government ' s plan , as outline by the Minister . we want the event to be a day of joy , reflection and celebration . will the Minister join I in encouraging as many people as possible to take the opportunity to reflect on and mark this important anniversary in our history ? will she work with local government and local council to ensure that those who need support with planning and want to celebrate can do exactly that ? with the spectre of war loom over Europe , do she agree that we must value the contribution of our armed force , now more than ever ? the 80th anniversary be an opportunity to remember the sacrifice and sheer determination of the people who see we through that dark period , and it be right that their service be properly commemorate . I pay tribute to organisation like the Royal British Legion and Troop aid , who serve my constituency , which will help these event to take place . I look forward to work with the Government to ensure that we do right by our brave man and woman in the armed force . I be incredibly grateful to the hon . gentleman for the tone of his response . he be absolutely right that VE Day and VJ Day should be etch on our collective memory . I join he in pay tribute to our armed service personnel who be serve today , and I echo his comment on Ukraine . he be right to pay tribute to the sacrifice of british and Commonwealth soldier and to outline how young people can get involve . it be important that young people can explore their connection and , of course , we want to encourage as many people to get involve as possible . in response to his specific question , we write to local government lead on 5 March . I be very happy to meet with they or any Member of the House to discuss our plan far . I whole - heartedly welcome the Minister ' s statement . it will be a true day of national unity . last week , I present a long overdue official armed force badge to 100 - year - old veteran Eric Radcliffe . will the Minister thank Eric for his service , and will she inform the House and my constituent in Leigh and Atherton about what be be do to ensure that the story and experience of brave veteran like Eric be not lose to time ? I be sure the whole House will want to join I in thank and pay tribute to Eric . as I say in my statement , veteran be at the heart of the celebration . we be work closely with the Royal British Legion to ensure that they be central to the plan , so they can get involve and we can hear their story . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I associate my party with what be be plan — it be a great idea . I crave the indulgence of the House to mention my parent , both of whom serve in the second world war . my father serve in the aforementioned Fourteenth Army , lead by Bill Slim , and be part of the second wave through Kohima . when I ask he what it be like , all he describe to I be the terrible smell of corpse — that be what stay with he . completely to my family ' s surprise , we discover that my mother have work at Bletchley Park . she be shock and horrify when that come out , and she splutter , " but I sign the Official Secrets Act . " my mother could never do a crossword , so we do not know how earth she get there . [ laughter . ] when we think about the period before the second world war , the word " appeasement " come to mind . I be sure that the same word come to the mind of all of we who have witness what have happen in these past month . we pray for peace , but it have to be a peace that work with ally and , above all , it have to be a just peace . the event of 1940 be a very , very close run thing . have Hitler come across the channel , which he might have do have he not decide to turn east and head towards Russia , we might still be in a german state today — who know ? it be miraculous that we get through and win that war . I close with a final suggestion to Ministers . there be precious few veteran , all over the UK , who still with we today . I be not sure whether I pick up what the Minister say correctly , but I suggest that we try to collate their memory , perhaps through local government culture department , and they can be encourage to write thing down or make a recording . it might interesting to publish a book of their reminiscence and memory while they be still here , because from history we learn for the future , and their account will be crucial to the generation ahead of we . the hon . Gentleman pay a heartfelt tribute to his parent . the commemoration I have announce today acknowledge the value of last peace and how it can sometimes be difficult to achieve . in response to his suggestion , our " letter to Loved Ones " encourage people to look into their own family history and to explore what life be like , and the Royal British Legion be lead on remembrance resource that will allow people to hear testimony direct from veteran . I thank the Minister for her statement , which will be welcome by the good and patriotic people of Newcastle - under - Lyme . the bravery , valour and sacrifice of those who defend our shore in the fight against fascism make they the hero we remember today and every day . the Minister will know — she have touch on this already — that the war be win thank to the service and commitment of people from across the then empire , now Commonwealth . what discussion have she have with the Commonwealth secretariat in relation to these commemoration to ensure that they pay due tribute to all those who make the ultimate sacrifice ? my hon . friend rightly make the point that we pay tribute to all those who serve from the Commonwealth . as part of a stakeholder roundtable , I meet the Commonwealth War Graves Commission . we be work in my Department and across Government with the Ministry of Defence , which we meet regularly , and we continue to work together . I thank the Government for these excellent plan . the ghost of man who go to liberate Europe and never come back be all over Wiltshire — the county that I represent part of . Lord Alanbrooke ' s diary be full of the village and town that he visit during the war while support our troop who be prepare to go and fight in Europe , and Wiltshire be very much the launch pad for Operation Overlord . in addition to the plan that the Minister have set out , may I encourage she to consider ensure that there be proper , senior representation from a national level in Wiltshire around d - day ? the hon . Gentleman make a very important point on behalf of his constituent . I be very happy to meet he to discuss the event take place in his constituency and the way in which the Government can potentially support they . the people of Aldershot and Farnborough have contribute in every major conflict for over 100 year , include the second world war . will the Minister join I in pay tribute to the contribution of my community in that conflict ? will she also join I in congratulate Councillor Sophie Porter , deputy leader of our council , and Councillor Nadia Martin , our armed force champion , who be part of our community ' s plan to deliver a new beacon in Manor Park in Aldershot , which will be light for the first time on 8 May ? how can people from my community get involve in the national plan ? have visit my hon . friend ' s constituency , I know how much it have contribute — Aldershot be of course the home of the British Army . she make an important point about armed force champion in council across the country , who will play an important role . we write to local authority last week , and we be keen to continue to work with they . I commend the Minister for her statement , which will be truly welcome by the people of Romford , many of whom serve in his Majesty ' s and her Majesty ' s armed force — include my own father , Frederick William Rosindell , who serve in the Royal Air Force in the second world war . a part of the british isle be liberate in May 1945 , which be describe by Sir Winston Churchill as " our dear Channel Islands " . I do not hear any mention today of the Channel Islands in the Minister ' s statement . some 66 , 000 british subject be liberate in Jersey , Guernsey , Alderney and Sark , and 6 , 000 member of the british force land there as part of operation Nest Egg — taskforce 135 . there be no actual commemoration for those people who liberate those cherish british island in the english channel . will she ensure that the reunion of the Channel Islands with the United Kingdom and the wonderful liberation of those island be also commemorate as part of VE 80 this year ? the hon . Gentleman pay an important tribute to his father , who serve in the Royal Air Force . he make an incredibly important point about the Channel Islands , and I would be really pleased to meet he to discuss that far to see how we can pay a fitting tribute to and commemorate the role that they play . I welcome the statement and the work of the Government to remember the great of all generation . will the Minister join I in congratulate Telford and Wrekin council on launch a £ 50 , 000 community fund to mark this event ? in particular , will she thank parish and town council , the Royal British Legion , Telford and Wrekin Interfaith Council and veteran ' group for grab the opportunity to apply to that fund ? do she agree that our ally then and our ally now be very welcome to join we in mark this very special occasion ? my hon . friend make a really important point . it be fantastic to hear about the £ 50 , 000 community fund . there be lot of way in which community group can get involve , whether it be decorate their village or town or organise a street party . as I say , we will work with local council to support local community to do that . I thank the Minister for her statement and for mention the Parliament choir , of which I be a trustee , and the concert we be plan as part of Parliament ' s celebration of victory and VE 80 . I note that though this Chamber be shatter by a Nazi bomb , the scarred arch at the entrance to it remain as a memorial to this House ' s defiance throughout the war . I assure the Minister that our programme be a celebration , a commemoration and a noting of the international effort . we will be singe music by not just british composer , but those from the country we liberate , such as Czechoslovakia and France , those from our ally , such as America , and those from country we vanquish . we be do " Jesu , Joy of Man ' s Desiring " by J . s . Bach to include Germany in the celebration — the music play regularly by Myra Hess throughout the war at the National Gallery . we will be singe some russian music too , as a memory that Russia be once our ally . we hope that one day Russia will be our ally again , but certainly under a different leader from the present one . I be really pleased that the hon . Gentleman be able to outline the important contribution that the Parliament choir will make . he be absolutely right to speak about how it be Parliament ' s opportunity to both celebrate and commemorate . my hon . friend the Minister for Creative Industries , Arts and Tourism remind I that we be watch over by the plaque for member of Parliament who lose their life during war . I be grateful to the Minister and the Government for announce these fitting tribute to VE and VJ Day and to all those who fight and die for our country . the West Bromwich Royal Naval Association club and the Oldbury Royal British Legion do really important work locally support and provide companionship for local veteran . will the Minister join I in pay tribute to they and in encourage everyone to get involve in the celebration that they will be organise ? I be absolutely delighted to join my hon . friend in pay tribute to the West Bromwich Royal Naval Association club and the Oldbury Royal British Legion . I know from my experience in my own constituency of Barnsley just how important organisation such as those be at moment like this , and all year round , in support veteran . I thank the Minister for her statement . the second world war have a profound effect on so many life . I think of my father ' s two brother , my uncle Anthony and my uncle James — my namesake — who fight in the Pacific in the US navy . some 50 , 000 scot lose their life in combat , while around 6 , 000 civilian in Scotland be kill , many in bombing raid . in my own constituency , Peterhead and Fraserburgh be subject to heavy bombing raid , with Fraserburgh suffer the same casualty rate as London during the blitz . can the Minister assure the House that all Government Departments will work to uphold the legacy of VE Day and look after all our veteran , especially those who find themselves homeless ? the hon . Gentleman rightly outline Scotland ' s huge contribution . I be visit Edinburgh next week , and I look forward to meet my counterpart there . he be absolutely right that support our veteran today be incredibly important , and we work across Government on that . we be join in the Gallery by Lord Coaker ; we speak very regularly . this fall to not just DCMS and the MOD , but Departments across Government . can I say how very welcome the Government ' s announcement on the VE and VJ Day celebration will be in Dartford ? my constituency be very much on the frontline during world war two . the town and surround village be a target for air raid by german bomber that could not reach central London , which often deposit their bomb load on Dartford . only today , part of Kirby Road and Hillhouse Road have have to be cordone off due to a suspect unexploded world war two bomb . I pay tribute to the emergency service , which , even as we speak , be deal with that situation . many brave Dartford man and woman fight and die in the war , and their memory be still strong . how can people use the VE and VJ Day celebration to uncover wartime history in their family ? my hon . friend have outline the huge impact that the war have . I say in my statement that my generation would be the last to grow up with family member and friend who fight or contribute ; I remember on my first day at school , or certainly not long after I join school , my first teacher talk about her experience during an air raid . that be really important to I grow up — it be part of my childhood that people talk about the second world war . that be not the case for today ' s generation , which be why we have launch our " letter to Loved Ones " initiative . that initiative encourage people to explore their family history — to look for letter and artefact so that they can understand what life be like during wartime . we be encourage people to share those letter and artefact on our website , so that we can all learn from they . my father serve on HMS Fearless , which be sink , and although he survive , many of his comrade remain bury at sea . will there be any initiative to address war grave at sea , give that there have be egregious example of their being plunder for scrap and other thing ? the right hon . Gentleman make an important point about war grave at sea , and I would be very happy to meet he or write to he . I will certainly reach out to colleague in the MOD to talk far about that issue . I thank the Minister for her statement — it be so important that people across the country have the opportunity to celebrate VE Day and VJ Day . I be really pleased to hear that the UK Government be work with the Welsh Government . how can the Government ensure that veteran be at the heart of our celebration in constituency such as mine in north Wales ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her question . once again , I meet the Royal British Legion this week to talk about how veteran can take part . the Royal British Legion have put a call out to all second world war veteran , who can express an interest . there will be activity , not just in London but in our devolved nation and across the country , and we want to ensure that we support veteran to get involve in whatever way they want . I congratulate all three Front - Bench spokesman on their excellent contribution . do the Minister know whether the BBC will be broadcast some of the film — not jingoistic , but thoughtful and realistic — that be make and broadcast in cinema during the war year ? will there be any reminder of the fact that the end of the war , though joyous for the liberated nation , do not mean the same thing for those country in central and eastern Europe — include Poland , for which we go to war — that be leave occupy by the Soviet Union , and that at the start of the cold war , only our alliance with America prevent a further conflict follow ? I hope some of those lesson will be carry forward in the commemoration that the Minister have outline . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his kind word , and he make an important point about take lesson forward . that be something I will take away . he have ask about the BBC ; as I mention in my statement , the BBC be work with we to deliver the concert on 8 May . although it will be a commercial decision that I do not want to anticipate , I understand that there will be old film . I also mention the augmented reality experience , which will bring to life four well know VE Day photograph so that people can see they in colour and listen to an audio history that will go with they . I thank the Minister for her statement . Northern Ireland play a pivotal role in the wartime effort , with 38 , 000 enlisting and our manufacturing industry shift to produce warship , tank , munition , aircraft part and so on . in my constituency , Lurgan ' s stunning Brownlow castle serve as headquarters for american troop and as the planning site for the D - day landing , and even host Eisenhower himself . today , it continue to welcome Government Ministers , include the Secretary of State — I extend that invitation to the Minister . as we approach the 80th anniversary of VE Day , do the Minister agree that Brownlow House should be recognise and promote nationally for its historic role , and that the Government should deliver on the promise of financial support for the restoration of its family wing , ensure that its full history can be preserve and share with the world ? the hon . Lady have rightly outline the huge contribution that people across Northern Ireland make , and as I outline in my statement , a number of commemoration be take place across Northern Ireland . I be due to visit Northern Ireland in April ; perhaps I can reach out to the hon . Lady to take she up on her kind invitation . while I be not in a position to commit financial support today , I would be delighted to visit if the diary allow . as a veteran myself — albeit of a much late conflict — I welcome the commitment to commemorate the 80th anniversary of VE Day and VJ Day . in my constituency , we have both RAF Bomber Command ' s Pathfinder force and the US air force ' s 303rd Bomb Group , which fly the first US mission over Nazi - occupy Europe in 1942 . the US air force be still at RAF Molesworth today . my question be about the Commonwealth War Graves Commission . in November , the Veterans Minister confirm to I in a write answer that the cwgc ' s budget for financial year 2025 - 26 would not be know until the MOD ' s budget have be confirm after the spending review . there be concern about the increase level of activity this year , not only due to VE Day and VJ Day celebration but the CWGC ' s work in expand the Loos cemetery — the world war one war grave — in northern France . the French be build a new hospital and a canal , and be anticipate exhume more british soldier there who will need to be bury , so those cemetery will need to be expand . could the Minister make representation for the CWGC ' s budget to be uplifted for next year , so that we can ensure that work be do ? of course , the whole House thank the hon . gentleman for his service as a veteran . he have outline the importance of VE Day and VJ Day to his constituency of Huntingdon . his specific question about funding be of course one for the MOD , but I will write to the Department to relay his question . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . as a former member of staff for the Commonwealth War Graves Commission and as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group for the Commonwealth War Graves Commission and commemoration , I welcome the Minister ' s statement . do she agree that the integration of the cwgc ' s " for Evermore " project into the VE Day and VJ Day celebration be a wonderful opportunity to draw the public ' s attention to the cwgc ' s relatively new online portal , through which descendant of the man and woman of the Commonwealth whom it commemorate can now share in perpetuity their story of the love one they lose ? the cwgc be therefore connect burial record with the life story and photograph of those who be commemorate for future generation . the hon . Lady make an important point , which I echo — the " For Evermore " project be a fantastic initiative . as she say , people can reach it online , and I understand that there will also be 150 mobile exhibition , not just across the UK but across the world . our local Noak Bridge and Billericay council have already sign up to the beacon lighting for VE Day . will the Minister encourage all local council across the country , include district , county and parish council , as well as community group to come together and do everything they can to make these celebration something for their whole community ? as I have be listen to other hon . member , I have also be reflect on our recent Commonwealth Parliamentary Association visit to Singapore and Malaysia , during which we visit the Commonwealth war grave there . perhaps the Minister could write to those organise all the international visit that Parliament be undertake to ensure that parliamentarian visit war grave around the world as part of the celebration , particularly this year . the right hon . Gentleman make a number of valid and important point . in my statement , I talk a little bit about how council and local councillor can get involve . we be keen that street party can take place , and we hope that local council can be as flexible as possible when it come to rule and regulation . we be also launch our new initiative , " Tip Top town " , to encourage people to decorate their local area , whether that be with bunting or letterbox topper . I should also say that grant be available for local community for thing like street party and decoration ; if they want to access those grant , they can make an application to the National Lottery Community Fund . I will also take the right hon . gentleman up on his suggestion that I write that letter . I thank the Minister for her statement , and for the energy and enthusiasm that she show on behalf of this great nation . over the year , my constituency have have a great history of service in the Army , RAF and Royal Navy — in the second world war , in every war since , and indeed during the trouble we have have . the victory in Europe and the victory in Japan be significant milestone in british history , mark the end of the second world war and Germany ' s surrender . it be crucial that we do all we can to remember and celebrate those event , so will the Minister consider allocate additional fund to devolve nation ? I say that for a reason : my local council , Ards and North Down , be oversubscribe by a long shot when it come to application . we need to ensure that local council have the capacity to fund the service and event that will celebrate those milestone , so that generation to come will not forget and , importantly , will be able to learn from the past . I also extend an invitation to the Minister to come to Strangford — there be no well place . if she have the time , I have the time for she . I thank the hon . gentleman for his kind word . it be a huge privilege to make this statement on behalf of the Government , and I be proud to be announce our activity on VE and VJ day . it be hugely important to our whole United Kingdom , as he rightly say . we be work closely with the devolved nation , and I will certainly reach out to he when I be in Northern Ireland . Backbench Business Farming [ Relevant Documents : oral evidence take before the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee on 14 January 2025 and 11 December 2024 , on the future of farming , HC 527 ; correspondence between the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee and the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury , on inheritance tax relief reform contain within the Autumn Budget , report to the House on 11 February and 28 January 2025 ; correspondence between the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee and the parliamentary Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , on strategy and vision for farming , report to the House on 11 February and 21 January 2025 . ] I beg to move , that this House have consider the future of farming . first , I remind the House of my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and place on record my appreciation for the Backbench Business Committee in allow we this time in the Chamber . it might be helpful first just to explain to the House why I think this be an important time to have a debate of this sort , and that be before I know anything about what happen early in the week . the Select Committee that I chair have an inquiry title " the future of farming " , and I have think that this would be an opportunity for member and other to shape the course of that debate and to contribute to the work of the inquiry . I still very much hope that be the case . I have also privately hope that this might be an occasion when we could look beyond some of the change that have occupy so much of the bandwidth in our political debate since the Budget , include the removal of the basic payment scheme and the change to inheritance tax , double cab pick - up and the ringfencing of agricultural budget for devolved nation . this debate be an opportunity for we to remind people just what we have get go with british farming , because there be some tremendous positive . we have the farmer here again today in Westminster , demonstrate how much they care about their industry and their community . for those who see this debate , whether in the Gallery or outside , I hope the message will go to they loud and clear that there be those of we in this House who want to see they stick at their effort , because we be on their side , and it be worth it . Agriculture have one of the most resilient and resourceful workforce to be find anywhere . there be apparently an active debate within Government on how we make work pay and what the value of work be . if anybody want to see the work ethic in action , they should go and spend a few day on a farm , because that be where they will see it clear than anything . we have hear a lot of concern in recent year about the balance to be strike between import food and food produce domestically . some of the trade deal be apparently underpin by a thinking or an agenda that we do not need to produce as much or indeed any of our food domestically , and that we could rely on import . then , of course , Vladimir Putin invade Ukraine and we have a rather rude wake - up call . since then , we have see Donald Trump back in the White House talk about trade and tariff change . surely those thing alone should make we understand the importance of a healthy , home - grow agricultural sector . we should not be offshore to other part of the world our standard of animal welfare or environmental protection . climate change be so often hold up as some sort of stick with which to beat our farmer , but there be a real opportunity . those area of the world from which we be import food be also undergo the change that come from climate change , and they will not be as able to produce the food that they would wish to export to we in year to come . in this country , we still have a good temperate climate , which be absolutely suited to that . farmer in Ely and East Cambridgeshire face the threat of flood and drought , which be make infinitely bad by the climate change that my right hon . friend be talk about , in addition to all the other challenge that farmer be face . do he agree that the Government should invest in rural flood management and water storage , and work with farmer to help they manage water on their farm ? I absolutely do , and my hon . friend put it perfectly when she talk about work with farmer . it seem that — this be as true for government north of the border as it be for those south of it — so much of what pass for agricultural policy be something that be do to farmer , rather than in partnership with they . to get to the bright future that I believe farming can have , we have to get past the present . the decision to close the sustainable farming incentive scheme on Tuesday without any notice have provoke predictable and justifiable fury , but do it with a press release that seek to present it as some sort of triumph add insult to injury . it be almost like a return to the glory day of the Soviet Union , when the Politburo would boast about their advance in meet their target in the five - year plan for tractor production . the Government have pull the rug out from under farmer across England , and that come on the back of the accelerated removal of the basic payment scheme in the Budget . I be afraid that the Minister ' s defence in the House yesterday around an uncapped budget be not adequate and do not tell the whole story . on 14 January this year , the director general for food , biosecurity and trade tell the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee that they have have almost 11 , 000 application to the SFI , with 7 , 000 contract offer . she say : " if that continue at that scale there may come a point where the budget come under pressure and we have to consider take action . " what have be happen in DEFRA since that time ? the permanent secretary be open with the Select Committee . she say that future funding hinge on the spending review . how do we get from that point , where official seem to be warn we , to the point we get to on Tuesday , when we see the scheme close without notice ? the press notice announce the closure of the SFI specify the budget as £ 1 . 05 billion cap . that be the first time I have be able to discover that that figure have be put into the public domain . without that transparency , how on earth can farmer and their representative possibly hope to regulate their behaviour , or know when the money will be run down and when they should be get their application in ? the frustration be that for some , this situation do not come out of a clear blue sky . it have be rumour for some time , and it be well know that land agent , consultant and other have be quietly advise client to get application in to beat the deadline and the exhaustion of the pot . that be fine if a farm be big enough to employ a land agent or a consultant , but this be a busy time of year for small family farm , upland farmer and other . those be the people who deserve and need the assistance more than ever , and they be the one who have again be leave behind . Tom Bradshaw describe DEFRA as " a fail Department " . that be strong language from a man not give to hyperbole , but the Minister would do well to take heed . in that evidence session on 14 January , we hear evidence from the permanent secretary , the director general for food , biosecurity and trade and the deputy director of policy , engagement and strategy . the Committee have not formally express an opinion , but it be fair to say from the informal discussion that follow that that session leave few of we , if any , with the impression that it be an impressive leadership team entirely in command of their brief . it be clear that the team understand the target and where they want to get to , but it be unclear how they would achieve their target . we see that with the various false start and misstep on the road to the environmental land management scheme , although I acknowledge that much of the responsibility for that lie with Ministers from the previous Government . the permanent secretary call it an iterative process , which to my mind just seem to be another way for people to say that it be okay to get thing wrong and to make it up as they go along . I be afraid that in the mind and eye of farmer across the country , Tuesday ' s announcement on the SFI simply reinforce that impression . the future of farming could be bright , but we have to give farmer the confidence to invest and bank the confidence to lend . the Government have to acknowledge the damage that be do to that confidence by the Budget change , especially in relation to agricultural property relief and business property relief . anecdotal evidence have be grow for month . we have see the closure of agricultural merchant and machinery dealer , and we have see the number of first registration of tractor fall . this week , we have the publication of the National Farmers Union ' s confidence survey . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his excellent contribution to this debate . do the point that he be make not underline the issue that be face in my constituency ? give the value of land , it be be buy up by private equity firm and pension fund for use in industrial tree production or solar farm . land be lose to food production as a result of such development . what the right hon . Gentleman refer to be the consequence of an agricultural policy that , despite aim to do many worthy and worthwhile thing , no long have the concept of food production at its heart . across this House and the different party , we need to rebuild a consensus around get food production back into agriculture . climate change mitigation , nature restoration and the rest of it be all important part of the context , but without food production at the heart of it , we will have the unintended consequence that he outline . I would like to take the right hon . Gentleman back to the point that he be make before he be interrupt . early today , at Business and Trade question , the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) ask what the Government be do to assist the rural economy , but answer come there none . be it not the case that the rural economy be interlink and that if we damage one part of that economy — farming — we damage all of it ? on the right hon . Gentleman ' s point about the supply of good and equipment to farmer , there will be so many other industry affect if this persecution be allow to continue . the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . it have to be properly understand that farming underpin everything in rural community . to take the example of agricultural merchant and machinery dealer , these be successful businesspeople . they will be people who be part of the local Rotary club . they will have child in school . they will be people who take on all sort of leadership responsibility within the community . if they can not make their living in the countryside , we should not expect they just to sit around and wait for something to come along . of course they will leave and the population will decrease , and we will be in a vicious downward cycle , which be the very opposite of what we need . it be also the very opposite of what a good , well - resource and value farming industry can provide for the country as a whole . if we be serious about the mission for growth , as the Government tell we , it have to be growth for everyone . it have to be growth across every sector and every part of the country , include rural area and farming . that allow I to come back to the point that I be about to make about the NFU ' s confidence survey , which be publish just this week . I be afraid it make grim reading for anybody who care about the countryside and agriculture . it tell we that 85 % of landowner believe that the reform to APR and BPR will increase their inheritance tax liability . of those , 32 % say they plan to reduce investment to mitigate the increase . the figure increase to 42 % for mixed arable and livestock business , and to 49 % for arable farm . some 75 % of employer expect to be impact by the increase in employer national insurance contribution , 65 % say they expect a reduction in profit because of the increase , and 43 % expect to reduce investment to offset the additional cost . again , that be on top of this week ' s change to the SFI and the basic payment scheme . I would like to say quite a lot more about other aspect of the Budget , particularly the removal of the ringfence for devolved budget , but I be reluctant to do so , give the pressure on our time this afternoon and the number of people who want to contribute to the debate . however , I have speak about those issue before , so those who be interested in my view can refer to my previous contribution . a small silver lining be to be find in the debate on APR and BPR , because it have force we to think about the extent to which farming produce such a spectacularly poor return on capital . this be something we have all know for year , but now we have be force to ask ourselves why it be the case . the hard fact of the matter be that 80 year of Government interference in the food market through agricultural subsidy have have the unintended consequence of keep farmer poor and make supermarket rich . I have a ten - minute rule motion next week to encourage the Government to introduce meaningful regulation in the food supply chain , and the Minister and his colleague have recently speak about their intention to see farm income increase . that be to be welcome , but it will need a much more comprehensive and coherent strategy than we have see thus far . not all confidence be about finance . we have see a lot of doubt throw into every sector of agricultural production in recent month because of the biosecurity threat that face this country . the poultry sector have be hit hard as a consequence of avian influenza . we have see foot and mouth outbreak on the continent . we see african swine fever move across the continent , and it seem likely that we will see bluetongue disease back in this country soon . the vet on the frontline — those in the Animal and Plant Health Agency — do a remarkable job , and we owe they all a debt of gratitude , but so much more need to be do . the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee have hear evidence on this issue from port health authority , local authority and the apha itself . we have ask the Department about the point at which government software system be update to stop animal product come from Germany , follow the identification of a foot and mouth outbreak there . despite get answer to our letter , we have still not be tell by the Department whether IPAFFS — the import of product , animal , food and feed system — be update on 10 or 16 January . that be something that the Government should be able to tell we . I have sympathy for the Government , because they be deal with a brand new system . essentially , we should be able to see this as a pressure test on it . if the system do not work perfectly everywhere , let we identify those part where the pressure escape . but in order to do that , we need more transparency and more candour from Government Departments . if the Minister can answer that question when he respond to the debate , I will be enormously grateful . if he can not , it would assist the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee greatly if we be able to get that answer in correspondence . time really be against we this afternoon . I would have love to have the rest of the afternoon , but we do not . I will conclude my remark , but let I say on behalf of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee that I very much hope that member from across the House will continue to engage with our inquiry , because if food security be national security , as the Prime Minister keep tell we , then our Committee be one of the most important Committees in this House . rise — order . after the next speech , I will be impose a four - minute time limit , with the exception of Front - Bench speech . as the representative for North Somerset , I , like many in this debate , represent a rural constituency , and thus a great number of farmer , whom I have have the privilege of meeting on a number of occasion since July . the farmer of North Somerset have not shy away from express to I their wide range of concern , go far beyond merely change to the inheritance tax regime . from those meeting , I have grow increasingly concerned that the outcry over change to inheritance tax in this House , and the time subsequently give to the topic , have distract we from the more fundamental question about the future of farming . that be why I thank the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) for secure this debate , and for make it clear in his application that he wish to debate farming more widely than merely a discussion of the merit of the inheritance tax change . I start by recognise that farming be an issue that arouse great passion . we have see that in our own constituency during visit in the past six month , and even on the very road that surround this building with the protest that seem to occur every other week . from conversation with farmer in my constituency , I have quickly gain an appreciation that we be talk about not just a profession , but a lifestyle and often a calling . the constituent I have meet be often work the soil that their father , their grandfather and the generation before they work — in some case , back even beyond the creation of this Chamber . it be thus understandable why there be a widespread feeling among farmer that too often this place , so distant to so many , do not listen to their need , do not discuss the issue so pertinent to their livelihood , and too often impose its will arbitrarily on they . if we be be fair , I think all of we would admit that this be not a new sentiment since the autumn Budget ; this go back decade and have be direct at all party in turn . I want to use my speech to talk about an issue that may not be grab the headline currently , but which , from discussion with farmer in my constituency , I believe constitute the great impediment to a thriving farming sector . a concern I hear again and again , no matter the product a farmer may choose to specialise in , be the excessive power of supermarket in contract negotiation and the raw deal farmer get as a consequence . too often , farmer I have speak to have be subject to a " take it or leave it " negotiate position from these mega - corporation , which be able to dictate price and impose unfair condition on farmer . many farmer I have speak to have have perfectly edible crop reject due to minor aesthetic defect , excessive delay in payment and indeed , as some have tell I , even instance of entirely arbitrary cancellation of order with no reason give . the fear of retaliation keep many of these instance from see the light of day , and that fear have arise due to the oligopolistic nature of the supermarket industry . in the flow from farm to fork , the supermarket act as a great gatekeeper , siphon a cut from the pass traffic . while this issue be not unique to the UK — after all , a mere five company control 80 % of the global trade in grain — I think it fair to say that in recent year our constituent have become increasingly aware of the greedflation they see reflect every day in the increase in the price they pay for food in supermarket . these increase in price be not benefit the hard - work farmer who produce that food , but rather the shareholder , which be often not even base in the UK . last year alone , we see the big four supermarket increase their profit by 97 % , while farmer feel the continue squeeze from rise energy price , rise fertiliser cost and rise labour cost — to name but a few thing . if we be serious about improve the lot of farmer in this country , I think this be where we need to focus our attention and our effort . do my hon . friend agree that not only do the big six supermarket not have the interest of farmer at heart , but two of they do not even pay corporation tax last year ? it be critical to address that in this wide discussion . I thank my hon . friend for a worthy contribution to the debate , and I completely agree . it be fundamental that we fix some of the problem in the supermarket supply chain that be affect farmer , and that company pay their fair share to this country . farmer continue to feel the squeeze from rise price , and I think we must strengthen the Groceries Code Adjudicator and give it real tooth , and thus empower farmer to fight back and get the fair deal they deserve . to do this , it will need to be properly resource , and to that end I suggest that we look again at the levy supermarket pay , which have not increase since 2018 , despite a dramatic rise in price and profit . the farmer I have meet do not shy away from tell I how much they love their profession , and how sad they be that their child do not see it as a viable future career . if we be to secure the future of farming , we must secure the future workforce , and to do that we must make farm a profitable business . without fundamentally rebalance the scale of power between those who grow our food and those who sell it , farming will continue to be an unprofitable venture and an unattractive career for young people . I note that the next review of the Groceries Code Adjudicator will start after this month , and like the farmer of North Somerset , I eagerly await to hear how my hon . friend in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs intend to ensure that it be fit for the future . the importance of farming can not be overstate . it be vital not only for farmer , but for all our community , our economy and our national security . Farming allow we to keep food price as low as possible in shop and supermarket . Farming be the foundation of the rural economy . it support ten of thousand of job not only on farm , but all along the supply chain . there be no national security without the food security that home - grow farming provide . I have know this for all my year because I grow up on a farm . I see my family and friend work extremely hard to earn a living — get up before dawn and sometimes work until after the sun go down — and toil in difficult condition away from the limelight in protect the environment and the countryside , often with little thank or reward . that be the story of so many family - run farm across our country . it be a story of the Borders , of Scotland and of british business up and down the United Kingdom . the Labour Government be put the huge benefit that farmer deliver at risk . the future of farming be under threat because of labour ' s family farm tax , which will only compound the damage that the SNP have already do to rural area across Scotland . family business , which have often be pass down from generation to generation , will be hit hard by Labour ' s vindictive family farm tax . these small family business be the lifeblood of entire community . they support job in local shop , the worker who rely on their trade for their own business to survive , and the business that maintain their equipment and supply their farm . they be more than family farm ; they be community farm , because they benefit everyone in the local area . these fact have be ignore by the SNP during its 18 year in power , and they have already be ignore by Labour within a year of its being in power . what do the future of farming look like once Labour bring in its family farm tax ? the National Farmers Union estimate that hundred of farm will face collapse because of this tax , and future generation will be deny the chance to farm their family ' s land . if their farm do not need to be sell , farmer will still be discourage from invest in their property because that would only increase the tax their child will have to pay , and they may feel the need to save cash to cover future tax bill . what will happen be that Labour will force farmer to sell their family business , our countryside will not be maintain to the same standard , the same volume of high - quality food will not be produce , our environment will suffer as more foreign food have to be import , other rural business in the supply chain will suffer from the decline in investment and ongoing trade , and food price in shop and supermarket will rise . in the end , Labour ' s family farm tax will not just harm the future of farming , but the future of the economy and the cost of live for we all . in conclusion , if the Labour Government be serious about support farm , they would listen properly to farming community . they would listen to the single big thing that farmer in our country be demand , which be to scrap the family farm tax , and restore the exemption of APR and BPR . that be the only way to secure the future of farming . the Government should do the right thing , and scrap the family farm tax . rise — Order . I have to introduce an immediate three - minute time limit , because I want to get everybody in on this important subject . I be grateful to be able to contribute to this debate , give that I have 350 farmer in my constituency of Shrewsbury , which be famous for its food and drink sector , and not least for the nation ' s favourite market . Shropshire overall have more farm holding than any other county in the UK . I be very proud of some of our produce , and in particular I be proud of a new technology that be be use in our area of outstanding natural beauty , which be unlock hilly and rocky terrain for new productive land use . I have have the privilege to be invite to visit so many of our farm , and work alongside local support network such as the Shropshire NFU , the Country Land and Business Association and our farmer support fund locally . overwhelmingly , my farmer tell I one key message : farming be tough . profit margin be so tight and they have struggle for year with high input cost — such as energy , fertiliser and animal feed , up by 44 % since 2019 — while food price from the big six supermarket have be decrease since Brexit , leave we with some of the low price in Europe , far compound by terrible trade deal with New Zealand and Australia . low productivity in farming be not just an academic description ; it be a harsh reality for the 12 , 000 farm livelihood that be force out of business since 2010 . to help we comprehend the scale of sectoral collapse under the previous government : that mean that more than 850 farm go under every year of their government — 16 farm close every week . it have leave farm with the low profitability of any sector in the UK . this have to change . for the sake of our hard - work farmer , and for the sake of our vital food security , we must revitalise farm with productivity , new technology and sustainability . give what the hon . Lady just say about the number of farm holding , would she regard it as a sign of failure of this government if that number be low at the time of the next election ? I have just explain that it be 12 , 000 low since the start of the previous Government , so by the hon . Gentleman ' s own admission , presumably that be a catastrophic failure . so let we support our farmer to deliver their high - quality food to high environmental and welfare standard into more market , such as by the Government ' s new procurement policy — do my hon . friend agree that give some of the challenge that we have discuss today , university research farm like Henfaes in my constituency will play a vital role in the future of farming ? do she welcome some of the grant announce by the Secretary of State for farming innovation and technology ? that be most interesting . that be exactly the direction of travel — to make farming more productive and profitable , we must embrace innovation . let we take support measure , such as the Government ' s new procurement policy to " back british farming " from DEFRA , which will promise that 50 % of public - fund catering must come from local farm that meet our high welfare standard . that mean that every meal in every hospital , on every Army camp and in every prison will be supply with at least 50 % local produce from british farmer . I can not wait to see the impact that will have at Royal Shrewsbury hospital and Nesscliffe Army camp in my constituency . I be sure that Opposition member have question about yesterday , because follow yesterday ' s announcement from DEFRA , several farmer get in touch with I with question about the propose change to the SFI scheme . I be glad to reassure any farmer who have apply that their grant will be forthcoming , as all submission will be honour from the budget , which have now be completely maximise — in contrast to last year , when the previous Government be unable to distribute the fund to desperate farmer , waste £ 350 million . under this Government , the entire budget have be commit three week before the end of the financial year , help over 57 , 000 farmer . minister have clearly set out their approach , which will take on board feedback from farmer on the complexity and inconsistency of the previous scheme , and aim to provide a more carefully manage programme . the new , improve SFI scheme will reopen this summer with a large budget and a more targeted approach , deliver in a fair and more orderly way , ensure value for money for taxpayer and invest in food production and nature recovery project . in my professional career before come to this place , I work for over 20 year to design , develop and deliver EU grant funding scheme such as these . in my professional experience , the most impactful scheme be those with a robust strategic objective , that be multi - annual in nature and take regular opportunity to review and improve technical specification with feedback from applicant . I welcome this review and launch — Order . I be grateful to the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) for secure this afternoon ' s debate . I want to make three point . Salisbury , my rural constituency , have farming at its heart . the universal feedback that we have have from farmer be that since this Government have come in they have be very , very disappointed . the change to the APR and BPR have catastrophic implication for succession planning , and despite make really sensible suggestion the NFU have be completely rebuff . farmer be in absolute despair . that come before we have all the change to national insurance and to the national living wage . the overall context for operate small business , which be what farm be , have be transform . the level of exposure that farmer feel to these combine pressure be enormous . then yesterday we have the announcement of the suspension of the SFI — a key part of the environmental land management scheme . a number of farmer ring I up yesterday and say , " this be the end . what be we go to do ? " one farmer I speak to yesterday afternoon , who operate 27 farm , work with an agent to prepare document to apply for grant , but those have not quite go in , so he now face grave uncertainty — a real black hole . this need to be address urgently . the combined effect of the change in the Budget and last night ' s announcement have have a massive impact on the industry across the United Kingdom . I want to use my remain time to focus on where we need to go now . this be a debate about the future of farming , after all . I recognise that , post Brexit , we need serious thinking and leadership about reconcile food production incentive , environmental management and get in place the right arrangement for trade . transition from where we be before 2016 be not straightforward . but I urge the Minister to put some define objective into the public domain and make his official accountable for deliver on they . that would help the Government to set a clear road map go forward and help famer know what food security really mean from his perspective . farming be the lifeblood of our local community in my constituency . I recognise that farmer be often the guardian of the countryside and our natural heritage — farmer like Richard Evans in my constituency , a brilliant sheep farmer at Larling whom I meet early this year and a lead voice in the Breckland Farmers Wildlife Network . that network be a farmer - lead group collaborate to support farming and the environment . with 52 member cover more than 44 , 000 hectare of farmland in the breck , they recognise not only that they be custodian of a very special area for agriculture and food production , but that it be home to a huge range of specie , many of which be find nowhere else in the UK . on my visit with Richard , I be join by representative from Norfolk Rivers Trust to talk about how we can work together to support our river locally , include rare chalk stream , because farming have a significant impact on our waterway . however , for farmer such as Richard to continue their excellent work , we must move towards a future for farming that prioritise such farm . we can not allow megafarm to dominate the industry and the landscape . a Compassion in World Farming study show that there be more than 1 , 000 large intensive pig and poultry farm across the UK , a 20 % increase since 2016 . Norfolk have , sadly , be dub the megafarm capital of Europe . resident in my constituency be very concerned about the increase number of intensive farm and how they be contribute to biodiversity loss , as well as climate change , and air and water pollution . very often such farming practice adversely affect people live nearby , especially because of the health hazard pose by ammonia . we have a far propose megafarm to be build in my constituency at Methwold . if approve on 3 April , it would become one of the large in Europe . that application have receive over 15 , 000 objection , include from all local parish council nearby , as well as the World Wide Fund for Nature and Compassion in World Farming . if the council be to make that decision early next month , it would be a disaster . as I have say : no ifs , no but , it can not be allow to proceed . this be not farm , this be industrialisation . I also want to make reference to our county farm estate in Norfolk , which I be particularly passionate about . once a mighty holding of more than 30 , 000 acre , it be now sit at around 16 , 000 acre , which still make it one of the large council - own farming estate in the country . I recently meet Richard and Danielle Gott at their farm in Nordelph in my constituency , who have successfully farm the land there for 26 year . we need to support farmer like Richard and Danielle and the next generation of farmer , such as their daughter Emma and Jessica . it be highly likely that with devolution the exist governance model will go . we need to give priority to entry - level farming as we move toward farming ' s future . I thank the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) for secure the debate . " the future of farming " seem an apt title for this debate , give the grave concern hold by the farming community the length and breadth of Scotland and beyond over the Government ' s propose tax reform to apr and BPR , and the inheritance tax come in next year . the argument against the proposal have be well rehearse in this place . they have be put to Ministers time and time again , here and in other forum . a consistent theme , however , seem to be their complete inability to listen to , hear and act on those concern . I do not blame the Minister in his place today ; I blame Treasury official . I think the Minister be an honourable man who be try to do a good job for farmer , but I do not think he be be listen to by other . even on the Government Benches , I understand that around 40 mp represent rural area have make their concern know to the Treasury , and be call for the £ 1 million threshold to be raise to protect small family farm , and for an amnesty for old farmer and those with serious health problem . that seem a reasoned and reasonable approach to I . but as I say , I do not blame the Minister for any of those thing . research by farming association have already call into question the accuracy of the datum from which the £ 1 million threshold be choose . surely it be not outwith the wit of Treasury official to return to their number and think again . but rather than back the Treasury into a corner here , let I offer the Government a very sensible and reasonable way out of this impasse . farming representative , include NFU Scotland , which I meet recently , be suggest a clawback mechanism as an alternative approach to generate the require tax revenue . the mechanism would allow 100 % relief on qualifying asset , but suggest charge IHT on all those asset if subsequently sell by the beneficiary within an agree timeframe — they suggest seven year . the NFU say the proposal will meet the UK Government ' s aim of raise revenue ; avoid penalise elderly farm owner and risk break up family farm ; prevent stifle investment in food production and environmental stewardship ; and take away the incentive to use APR and BPR solely as a way of avoid tax liability . it would also target individual and corporation who be game the tax system by use the land to shelter from their liability . the Government do not have to cave in on this — there be time . they should simply agree to enter a new round of consultation aim at hone their proposal , engage with industry representative and consider how there might be some compromise . finally , I want to finish by reference a discussion I have with the Minister recently on the need to kick - start the trade in seed potato , which have be so damage by Brexit . the Government be make positive move in the reset with the European Union . I hope the issue will be high on their priority list , to revive Scotland ' s important seed potato industry . I want to start my contribution today by pick up where I leave off this morning in my question to the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , my hon . friend the Member for Ellesmere Port and Bromborough ( Justin Madders ) . at the heart of the problem face farming and profitability be an unfair supply chain . as we hear early , the big six supermarket be in effect act like a cartel , force unfair price on farmer and pursue unfair practice towards family farm . last year alone , the big six make a combine pre - tax profit of more than £ 5 billion . of those big six , two — Asda and Morrisons — do not pay a penny of corporation tax . as we know , supermarket be price setter seek maximum profit to drive down on the cost they be prepared to pay for home - grow , quality produce . at the same time , the cost of run a farm continue to rise , with soar fuel , fertiliser and equipment price . in a world where farmer and producer be struggle to make a living , and be rely on Government grant and subsidy so that they can survive from one year to the next , that can not be see to be fair or right . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will continue , if I may . we need to look properly , and with real scrutiny , at the supermarket . those practice need to change . we can not allow farmer to bear the brunt of this system , while other in the supply chain benefit so disproportionately . I want to address the issue of APR . many , many farmer have raise their concern with I directly . I have listen to those concern in Suffolk Coastal and raise they directly with the Treasury and DEFRA . I remain committed to continue to advocate for farmer in Suffolk Coastal over the month ahead . will the hon . Lady give way on that point ? I will continue . however , it be important to reiterate that while the change to APR be significant , they be not the root problem face the farming industry . if farming be profitable , farmer would be less worried about pay a new tax bill . the focus must be on make farm more profitable . without profitability , tax relief or Government support will provide only limited help . that include ensure fair price for quality produce , protect farmer from unfair competition and address rise cost , from fuel to fertiliser to equipment . I do not doubt that that will be a tough battle to fight when society often prioritise price over quality — people will happily spend more on a cappuccino than they will on a locally produce chicken — but if we want to protect british farming , we must change our approach . the future of farming be essential , not only for the economy but for the very fabric of rural society itself . we must continue to put farmer first , ensure they continue to feed and sustain we for generation to come . I rise as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on science and technology in agriculture , the deputy Chair of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee , and a former Minister for agritech and UK trade envoy . I be also from a farming family and I have no interest to declare other than a deep interest in my family ' s ability to continue farm their farm in Suffolk . Most of all , I be the Member of Parliament for Mid Norfolk , a fabulously rural constituency . I do not need to tell the Minister that , because he have the privilege of be the Labour party ' s parliamentary candidate there three time . he know what the House need to know , which be that it be magnificently rural , with 130 village and three town . it be the absolute engine room of food , farming and food processing . from Banham Poultry to Cranswick , right through to the Goat Shed , Rosie and Alex Begg grow blackcurrant for Ribena , Carrick Farms , which supply all the food to Darbys pub , and Novo Farina develop gluten - free flour , it be an engine of some of the most exciting activity and technology in UK agriculture . it be that engine because for 50 or 60 year it have enjoy a relatively stable framework of support . but history show we , friend and colleague , that if agriculture do not have that support , it be vulnerable . we have agricultural depression at the end of the 19th century , in the 1920 and 1930 , and in the 1940 and 1950 . we be at a most extraordinary moment for UK agriculture . we could be incubate a fabulous agritech industry . across the world , there be a wall of money to invest in agricultural science and research . the world have to double food production in the next 25 year on the same land area , with half as much water and energy . we be home to 10 of the world ' s top 30 research institute — we be an engine room for those technology . I say to the Minister that current policy will , overnight , massively reduce the market in the UK for those innovation . it will remove a great industry which be begin to get off its foot and tackle the opportunity it have to be a global engine of innovation . if we be not careful , we will sleepwalk into it , despite the warning of the pandemic , global supply chain shock , the Ukraine war and now President Trump ' s trade war , as other have say . in the interest of food security , affordability and sustainability , we need to support our UK agricultural industry and show the world how to deliver more from less . that be why the all - party parliamentary group on science and technology in agriculture , of which I be chair , have call for a tyre - screech 180 ° u - turn to support the sustainable intensification of agricultural productivity . we need to produce more . I can tell the Minister that in my beloved constituency , which he know well , with the impact of the farm tax , the small business attack , the abolition of SFI and the massive subsidy for solar farm , it be begin to look as though the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero and the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government , with its 50 % increase in housing target , be try to get farmer off the land to make way for solar farm and badly design housing . this be a disaster for one of our most exciting industry — UK agritech — and I beg the Minister to take a stand for it . it be an honour to speak in this debate as a member of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee . I thank our Chair , the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) , for secure the debate . the future of farming be not simply about keep our field green , livestock shed full or supermarket shelf stock , but about secure the future of our rural community , protect the environment and support the farmer who be the backbone of our nation ' s food system . this Government inherit underspent farming scheme , result in hundred of million of pound not reach farmer ' pocket . a record 50 , 000 farm now use these scheme , and more money than ever before be be spend through the sustainable farming incentive and countryside stewardship . the recent publication of the land use framework set out the change and complementary use of land need to achieve our environmental target . alongside support for the environmental land management scheme , the framework will help to drive improvement on food security , biodiversity , carbon emission , water and air quality , and flood resilience . the scottish land use strategy have show that we also need clear policy to give certainty on how to deal with directly compete interest on land . as we know , England be in the midst of a transition . if we be to make this transition successful , we must ensure that farmer be support in this shift , ensure new scheme be accessible , flexible and equitable . I welcome the progress the Government have make on free up bottleneck in application ; as the MP for most of the Cannock Chase national landscape , I also welcome the extension of the farming in protect landscape programme . we know that any sector that do not have certainty in its workforce lack certainty for the future . I commend the stride the Government have make on expand apprenticeship across the UK , but our agricultural and land management sector need to share in the benefit of that . figure show that only 5 % of the 285 , 000 people work in agriculture be under 35 , and , with the twin pressure of climate change and global food insecurity , the next generation of farmer need to be equip to meet the challenge of the 21st century . automation be another way of address these challenge , but the harsh reality be that small farm can not shoulder the burden of the risk of invest in expensive new tech . there be good work be do on this , with 20 and 25 - year agreement be sign with farmer to unlock long - term investment , which I hope will become the new normal . without that certainty , farmer will not be able to do everything we want to see . lastly , I want to raise the long - term plight of abattoir . it be not frequently speak about , but while there be 2 , 500 abattoir in the 1970 , there be now just 200 , make it far hard for many farmer to keep their supply chain small and local , from farm to fork . to bring my remark to a conclusion , the reality be that for many , many year , our farmer have be worried about their future and the future of their sector . we need to ensure they feel confident that their concern be be hear and address so that we and our farmer can achieve the world - lead ambition we have for our agricultural sector . farming be the backbone of this country , not only provide we with the food we need to feed our family , but act as a steward of the land that we hold dear . farmer do so much more than grow our food : they protect the countryside , create job and contribute immensely to rural economy . my constituency may not have as large a farming population as some other , but believe you I , Madam Deputy Speaker : the farmer we do have be vital to the national picture , as the shadow Farming Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) , recognise during his recent visit to some of my local farmer . their effort support local community , provide employment and contribute to food security , and I pay tribute to each and every one of they . I also pay tribute to the farmer who take valuable time off the land today to bring their tractor down to Parliament and support we here in this debate . I suspect there may even be some sit in the Gallery upstairs . change to agricultural property relief and business property relief from April 2026 will have a profound consequence for family farm , include those in my constituency . the removal of the 100 % relief above the first £ 1 million in agricultural and business property could mean farmer be force to pay inheritance tax at 20 % on the value of their property above the threshold , which will push many of they out of business . do my right hon . friend agree that the change to agricultural property relief be completely contrary to what the Prime Minister outline in his initial speech on Downing Street , where he say he want the Government to tread more lightly on people ' s life ? do she also agree that this policy be a false economy and that it ultimately risk concentrate farming asset in the hand of very few , which will make the market much bad for british consumer , society and food security ? my hon . friend be absolutely spot on . I know he speak and stand up for his local farmer very powerfully . far from treading lightly , this Government be trample over our farmer . this policy will lead to the break - up of long - establish farm , with land be sell off to meet tax liability , which will , I fear , lead to the concreting over of our beautiful countryside . another topic that demand our attention be the use of agricultural land for the siting of battery energy storage system . while I be fully supportive of the move to renewable energy , just as with solar farm , we must ensure that the siting of BESS , which be often large in scale , be do with care and consideration . in my constituency , a planning inspector have approve one of these battery storage facility on green - belt agricultural land at Chapel Lane in Pheasey Park Farm ward against the will of the local council and the community . our land be finite , and we must balance the need for renewable energy with the need to safeguard land for agricultural use and food production . I urge the Government to take a more balanced approach to land use , ensure that agricultural land remain available for farming and food production . I fear that the change to the national planning policy framework and the Planning and Infrastructure Bill will simply drive a coach and horse through our arable and green - belt land , disrespect the view of local resident and risk our food security . we can no long take food security for grant . the war in Ukraine , global inflation , supply chain disruption and extreme weather event be all contribute to rise food price and shortage in some area . here in the UK , we currently produce just 61 % of the food we need . we can no long be complacent . it be time to stand up for our farmer . just this week , the Government announce the closure of the SFI scheme — another kick to our farmer , who be lead the way on change . let I conclude — I could say more , and I would love to say more — by say that farming be not just a job , but a way of life . no farmer mean no food . it be time this government axe the family farm tax . the economic fundamental of farming must be a priority , and I call on the Government to focus on the key determinant of farm operating profitability . there be many driver of what make a british farm successful , but structural pressure — buyer oligopoly , price input volatility , international trade challenge , differential in welfare and environmental standard and even our consumer culture — continue to threaten their viability . as a result , we have see increase consolidation , with many farmer shift to large , more arable - focus operation . when it come to trade , livestock farming have be hit particularly hard . the deeply flawed trade deal with New Zealand be a hammer blow to sheep farmer and our great british land industry , undermine domestic producer and put british farmer at a competitive disadvantage . then there be the standard themselves . our farmer operate to world - lead standard of animal welfare , food safety and environmental sustainability — standard of which we be rightly proud . yet there be little recognition of the additional cost that those standard impose . instead , we allow product from other country with low standard to flood our shelf , undercut the british farmer who be do the right thing . if we value high - quality british food , we must ensure that our policy reflect that through , for example , fair trade deal , well labelling , financial support that compensate for those high cost and be honest about the onshoring of emission , as the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) outline at the start of the debate . some farm be more profitable than other not just because of their scale and type of agriculture , but because of their operating environment — an operate environment that the Government play a crucial role in shaping . access to target support for innovation and environmental land management can empower farm to thrive , yet , too often , the support fail to reach the farm that need it the most . I welcome this Government ' s successful deployment of SFI , which be something that the previous Government fail to do , but immediate visibility be need for farm look to implement the next wave of those initiative . the power of supermarket must also be address to ensure that farmer receive a fair return . again , I must say that this be a massive cultural challenge and a shift that need to take place regard the value that we place on our food . consider , too , the geographical disparity . farmer in Cornwall , for example , face unique challenge : small field , which take great , often generational knowledge to manage ; high transportation cost ; and great exposure to extreme weather . yet they receive the same market price as large , lowland farm with few overhead . government policy must acknowledge that uneven playing field and ensure that support reach those most challenging farm and geography , which be essential to navigate our rural landscape such as that in Cornwall . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) on secure this important debate . I wish to follow on from what the hon . member for St Austell and Newquay ( Noah Law ) say about trade deal . we know that trade deal , particularly the potential one with the US , threaten to undermine our high animal welfare standard that we have spend year work so hard to establish . if we allow product that be produce to low standard — such as hormone - treat beef or chlorine - wash chicken — to become the norm , that will undercut our farmer . this be not about protectionism , but about fairness . not only be vet and farmer proud of our high animal welfare standard , but the british public be , too . we should not in any way be look to compromise those . the UK have already make significant stride in reduce antibiotic use in livestock without compromise animal welfare . our veterinary and farming sector have work together to promote the responsible use of antibiotic . we be set an example for the rest of the world to follow . as the responsible Use of Medicines in Agriculture Alliance report in 2024 highlight , sale and usage of antibiotic in food - produce animal remain low . in fact , the past 10 year have see a 59 % decrease in the use of antibiotic in animal and livestock . long - term antimicrobial resistance surveillance carry out by the Veterinary Medicines Directorate show that multi - drug resistance in animal be at its low level in a decade . such encouraging statistic be a product of year of work and dedication between scientist and the farming community . this be a huge public health issue , and we should be ensure that trade deal do not force our farmer to compete with country that do not have the same judicious use of antibiotic as we do . on Saturday , I visit the NFU in Hampshire at Ben Robinson ' s farm where , like many lowland farmer , they be about to start lamb . this be the hard time of the year for sheep farm — I grow up on a sheep farm . those farmer will be work all day and all night . in farming , the amount of effort , time and work that farmer put in do not always result in profit , because so many factor be out of their control — international disease outbreak , geopolitical event that put up fertiliser price , poor weather , change Government policy , and potential trade deal . I pay tribute to the Farming Community Network , which work so hard to support the mental health of farmer . on Friday , I find myself more than 1 , 000 metre under the North sea . I will explain why in just a moment , but before I do so , let I acknowledge the hard work that our farmer do across the country and acknowledge a point that hon . member across the House have make , which be that , in recent year , farmer across Britain have face a serious squeeze . I have meet local farmer and the NFU in my constituency and they put that squeeze down to a range of reason , range from poor trade deal to poor policy . but one factor that I wish to focus on be the soar cost of fertiliser , which be drive by global supply chain shock , price volatility and an over - reliance on import . these pressure be not just hit farmer in their pocket , but threaten our food security and the resilience of our agricultural sector . but deep underground in North Yorkshire , there lie a potential solution . last week , I have the pleasure of visit the ICL Boulby facility in my constituency , which produce the crop nutrient fertiliser , polyhalite , and export it around the world . polyhalite contain four essential nutrient — potassium , calcium , magnesium and sulphur — which be vital for plant growth . not only that , but it be super low carbon . it require minimal processing and zero chemical additive , mean that it lead to healthy , more resilient soil . in fact , study have show that it can boost crop yield by 3 % to 5 % compare with standard fertiliser . if we be serious about support british agriculture , we must back british solution . that mean a clear strategy on fertiliser security , investment in research , and support for innovation that reduce cost for farmer while strengthen our food system . the ICL Boulby facility be currently the only operational polyhalite mine in the world , although a second — the landmark Anglo American Woodsmith project , also in North Yorkshire — be on its way and have a strong future ahead . I have be down both facility and be strike by their ingenuity . above , the wild , unbroken heather of the North York moor and the beauty of the North sea coastline be untouched by the operation in the depth of the earth below . I pay tribute to those skilled team work underground in tough condition to produce these export , which be boost our food security . Britain can not afford to be at the mercy of volatile global market when we have the resource , the expertise and the ambition to build a more resilient , productive and sustainable farming sector right here at home . it be clear that polyhalite can play a significant role in support the Government ' s goal to strengthen british food security . I hope the Minister will agree to meet I and representative of the sector to discuss the challenge they face and the value of this export . I urge the Government to recognise the potential of polyhalite to support farmer in adopt British - make , british - mine solution . do so would unlock further private investment , safeguard job and secure the UK ' s position as a global leader in sustainable fertiliser production . decision make in London be risk the future of farming in Wales . change the funding model for agriculture from one that be need - base to one base on the Barnett formula could lead to a cut in funding for Welsh farming of about 40 % . that be despite Wales have a high proportion of farmer than other part of the UK . the change to agricultural property relief and business property relief will have a dramatic impact on the future of farming . how can the UK Government justify those change when they have no concrete datum on their impact in Wales ? that be why we need a Wales - specific impact assessment . it be crucial that the Government have accurate datum to understand the real impact of the change . how do this help economic growth in Wales ? ninety per cent of our land area be give over to farming . in 2020 , gross agriculture output be worth £ 1 . 7 billion to the economy . the wide food foundation sector in Wales — business that produce , process , manufacture and wholesale food and drink good — turn over £ 9 . 3 billion in 2023 , never mind the wide supply chain of agricultural mechanic , vet and animal feed producer . why be the UK Government undermine rather than support this industry and its growth potential ? a Government who do not understand the agricultural economy risk the future of rural community , too . Westminster policy that do not consider the particularity of the Welsh agriculture industry , in which 43 % speak Welsh , trample over the future that we fight so hard for in Wales . threaten the future of agricultural and food production far threaten the ability of family and young people to stay and work in their community . it be crucial that good - quality , fruitful farmland continue to be use for food security as land demand for non - agricultural purpose increase . the transfer of Welsh land to company that do not have to worry about inheritance taxis be likely , if not inevitable . in my constituency of Ynys M ô n , we be battle to keep valuable , fertile land away from developer ' plan for 3 , 700 acre of solar farm , which would have a negative impact on the local economy . this land have sustain we for generation in Ynys M ô n , across Wales and far afield . there be a reason we be name M ô n Mam Cymru — M ô n , the mother of Wales . undermine Welsh farmer and agricultural producer risk miss a critical opportunity to shorten our food supply chain and improve our resilience . the Labour UK Government ' s decision show a significant lack of understanding of the importance of farming in Wales . their inability to distinguish between tax - avoid millionaire and corporation and hard - work people make a living from the land speak volume . the UK Government make the wrong decision . now be the time to show that they truly support hard - work people , by listen to our farmer and reverse these ill - thought - out plan . I welcome this timely debate on the future of farming , in the week in which the SFI rug be pull out from underneath farmer . surely the future of farming have to be young farmer . I have be in touch with some young farmer in my constituency to ask what they think I should talk about in this debate . I be send a screenshot by Beth , who be partway through her SFI application . it say , " thank you for do your application . when you be ready , submit it . if we need to close application , we will give you six week ' notice . we will publicise this on gov . uk and we will email you . " if that be not a broken promise , I do not know what be . Louise , another farmer in my constituency , say that she be " angry , disappointed , upset and exasperate … we have follow the Government ' s advice to the letter , and be kick in the tooth " . another farmer say : " pull SFI be absolutely criminal — just more short - term thinking that force we into decision we don ' t want to make . " Ben say : " yet another nail in the coffin for … family farm … with no warning environmental project that have be in planning for month on our farm will have to be stop … . we can not plan for the future when the rule keep change . " the future of farming need to be S , F and I : s for sustainable , F for fair and I for in partnership . I think the hon . Member will agree that the shutting down of the SFI with no notice on Tuesday night be an awful situation . DEFRA have be either disorganised or sneaky , but either way it diminish the trust of our farming community in the Government . I could not agree more . this have diminish trust . it be vital to rebuild that trust because we need that sustainable , fair and in - partnership future for farming . it need to be sustainable in environmental term — we need to recognise the reality of the climate crisis and the nature crisis . we need to support our farmer to make the vital transition to nature - friendly farming . farmer in North Herefordshire be at the forefront of that , but they need the Government to back they , not knock they off their foot with policy change with zero notice . we need farming to be sustainable environmentally , and sustainable economically . it be not acceptable that the rate of return on farming be so low for so many . the Government have a crucial role to play in tackle that . the Green party have long call for a doubling of the nature - friendly farming budget , because of all the extra benefit that farming provide socially , economically and environmentally . we need the Government to step up on that . farming need to be fair , both internationally and locally . internationally , our farmer must not be undercut by trade deal that let in product that undermine our animal welfare and environmental standard . we need to ensure that the Government stand firm on that . farming need to be fair locally , because access to farming support scheme have not be equal . it be hard for many farmer to access those scheme . whatever replace the SFI , I hope that the Minister will ensure that farmer have equal access , and the support that they need to access those scheme . [ interruption . ] I see that the Minister be nod . finally , the future of farming have to happen in partnership with farmer themselves — their voice have to be hear — and with the rest of Government . we need a fully join - up approach to land use , food , farming and sustainability . it also need to happen in partnership with nature , because without a thriving natural world , there be no sustainable future for farming . I have often speak about my deep connection to farming ; it be in my dna . I love the rural way of life and for 40 year , I have be part of a local farming community that value hard work , resilience and responsibility for the land . my granda always say , " if the farmer isn ' t do well in this country , no one be . " he be not a prophet , nor do he hold any of the grand title or credential so often revere in this place . what he be , be a farmer — one who understand all too well that agriculture be the cornerstone of our economy , and that when that cornerstone be break , remove or chip away at , the consequence be dire : our economy weaken , our rural community suffer and our food security be place at risk . trust in politic be hard - earn but easily break , so when our farming community hear promise from the now Prime Minister at the National Farmers Union conference in 2023 , they could have be forgive for place a certain degree of trust in this Government . farmer could relate to the Prime Minister when he say , " lose a farm be not like lose any other business — it can ' t come back … you deserve well " . he go on to say , " we can ' t have farmer struggle " and he claim that farmer " deserve a government that listen " . he talk about stability and certainty . well , those word ring hollow , do they not ? the October Budget be a defining moment in this Parliament ' s history , deliver the big hammer blow to farmer in a generation . the family farm tax grab , as it be now know , be an existential threat to the future of farming , and those who survive that blow will be strangle by the Government ' s other disastrous policy . let we consider the closure of the sustainable farming incentive this week and a new tax on double - cab pick - up , which be a lifeline vehicle for many farmer . we can add to those a tax increase on fertiliser , a hike in national insurance contribution , cut to business property relief and an ever - grow burden of environmental rule , regulation and requirement . to add insult to injury , while the Government speak about those thing be need to fill the black hole and rebalance the book , £ 536 million be go in UK aid to foreign farmer . what good be so - call environmental progress if we end up import more food from abroad — food produce to low standard and with a far great carbon footprint than what we can grow here at home ? this debate be rightly focus on the future of farming , but without urgent action there will be no future for many of our farming family . for generation , they have feed the nation and be steward of our land , yet today they face relentless threat , and none more so than the family farm tax . I implore those across the way , on the Government Benches , who represent rural constituency to rise up and fight back for UK farming , fight back for their rural constituent , and fight back for the man and woman who feed we and for the circular economy that depend on farming . our farmer find themselves in an increasingly precarious position . politically , we see a drip - drip of punish legislation erode our agricultural sector . the family farm tax have see regular protest here in Westminster and those farmer do not come here to pledge their fealty , much as the Government would like they to . I note that the hon . member for North Somerset ( Sadik Al - Hassan ) mention how unprofitable farming be . I do not know how he hope they will be able to square the inheritance tax issue with an unprofitable business . we have recently see the announcement of the suspension of the sustainable farming incentive with only 30 minute ' notice and of new compulsory purchase power that will see yet more farmland concrete over . dozen and dozen of solar farm be in the pipeline , which will all be easily force through as nationally significant infrastructure project because of a laughably low qualifying threshold that be now nearly 20 year old . the future of farming under this Government look bleak . diversification appear to be one of the few option available to farmer , and innovation be another . I visit Vantage in Great Staughton in my constituency to discuss how advance in agricultural technology can have a positive impact on farming technique , particularly as farm face manpower shortage , few resource and increasingly few available experienced farm worker . will Mumford , a fifth - generation local farmer and the manage director , take the time last year to meet I and talk I through some of the local challenge face by farmer and to highlight the opportunity present by development in agricultural technology . that give I an opportunity to see a demonstration of Will ' s robot tractor , the AgXeed AgBot 5 . 115T2 — not a particularly snappy name , I grant you , and surely a miss opportunity to call it " RoboCrop " . the AgXeed tractor be a remotely control robot tractor that plough a pre - program route . it be small than a conventional tractor and do not look recognisably like one , but there be multiple benefit to use such technology . be remotely pilot , the tractor do not require a driver or , therefore , a cockpit , which make it significantly light . the benefit of that be a small footprint and therefore reduce soil compaction , which in turn improve drainage and reduce flooding . a further benefit be how the tractor can be use day or night without the need for a human operator . at busy time of the year , it allow work to continue when resource be stretch . many of our generational farmer increasingly see old family member unable to work the hour they once do , and automation within the industry can benefit those small family farm by reduce the need for reliance on additional farm worker , give the struggle to guarantee that resource . RoboCrop be a clever and impressive piece of farm machinery , and though not commonly see at present , it be now use in my constituency . that be just one example of forward - think sustainable technology that be make a difference for farmer like Will . we need the Government to take action to ensure that british farm can utilise groundbreake technology like that to secure the future of british farm . I want to see our farm , food security and rural way of life protect . I want to see the future of farming be able to display the innovation that have lead the world in sustainable practice . for farm to succeed , we need farmer . collectively , we must support and protect our vital farming sector . I declare an interest as the wife of a farmer and agricultural contractor . farming be a difficult job — unbelievably long hour and physically hard work in all weather every day of the year — but it be a true vocation and labour of love that farmer do to provide we with food eat and food security . lincolnshire farmer be particularly important for food security , provide 12 % of the UK ' s food , 30 % of its veg , 18 % of its poultry and 11 % of its wheat . job in the food chain make up 24 % of job in the Greater Lincolnshire area , and farmer locally care for 13 , 500 acre of farm woodland and 2 , 500 mile of public right of way , but all that be under threat . food production be less profitable and , in some case , it be not profitable at all thank to this Labour Government . the hon . Lady be make an excellent speech . throughout the debate , I have struggle to understand the point put forward by Labour Members that while they rightly acknowledge that farming be not profitable , they support a policy that will take even more cash away from farming business . do she , like I , find those two policy hard to reconcile ? I find they extremely difficult to reconcile . in early October , I go to the " Farmers Weekly " award in London where the Minister , in his red bowtie , give a speech in which he say that the Government would have the farmer ' back . I be sure he believe it be true when he say it , but within a month , he be unfortunately prove wrong with this Government ' s Budget . many member have talk about the profitability of farming . how will the family farm tax make farm more profitable ? how will the family business tax , the drastic drop in delinked payment , the rise in the minimum wage , rise national insurance contribution , or the tax on double cab pick - up make farm more profitable ? they will not . how will close the SPI payment scheme early and without notice , despite have promise to give notice , make farm more profitable and business more secure ? it will not . the Government now talk about take land without proper due consideration . that have lead many farmer in my constituency to ask , " why do this Labour Government hate farmer so much ? " why do they want to hurt our farmer so much ? what do the hon . Member think that the large farming budget in recent year will do if not make farming more profitable ? I do not support the hon . Gentleman ' s figure or think the Government will make farming more profitable . it be the classic socialist trick of say , " we ' ll give you some money here , and we ' ll take some money there . " we have see it with hospice and the NHS , and we see it with farming as well . they be take money away in taxis leave , right and centre , then give a few penny over there and say , " be grateful , why don ' t you ? " I be afraid that it do not wash with farmer . farmer be clever people , and they can see straight through it . the effect of the Government ' s policy will be reduce food security , the collapse of small business and the purchase of that land by large corporation , and an increase in food price for consumer rich and poor across the country . this be a debate on the future of farming . many farmer in my constituency feel that , thank to this Labour Government , they have no future in farming . we believe in a future in which farming thrive — one base on stability , growth and sustainability . sadly , Labour ' s policy jeopardise all three . whether it be the disastrous last - minute overnight closure of the sustainable farming incentive , the relentless family death tax assault on family farm , or the negligence towards rural business , Labour ' s agenda harm the heart of rural Britain , include my Kingswinford and South Staffordshire constituency . labour ' s short - sightedness in decide to stop accept new application for the sustainable farming incentive — with just half an hour ' s notice give to the NFU despite the promise of six week ' notice — be a clear sign of its failure to understand the long - term need of our farmer . while thousand of farmer be look to the SFI for support , Labour have choose short - term political convenience over long - term sustainability . our farmer deserve consistency and trust in the future , not abrupt cut to vital programme . we will continue to back farmer . labour ' s inheritance tax policy be a direct attack on the heart of family farm . the plan cut to agricultural property relief and business property relief will make it impossible for farmer to pass on their livelihood and their business — the farm that they have be farm for generation — to their child without face huge tax burden . accord to the NFU , someone who inherit an average cereal farm from their parent face 10 inheritance tax payment , with each one represent 1 . 5 time what they can expect to make in annual profit . they be run at a loss to fund the Government . that be serfdom , not farm . my hon . friend be make a great and impassioned speech . the Government be say that one can avoid the tax , but one do not know who be go to die and when . in fact , the generation do not necessarily always occur 10 year apart , which could compound the tax even far , could it not ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . clearly , the people who be well place to avoid pay the tax be the very people who ought to be pay and contribute : the mega landowner . for the average cereal farmer , however , who could face inheritance tax bill of 1 . 5 time the value of their annual profit , the only recourse will be to sell land or machinery . that be so blatantly obvious that the fact that the Government do not see it make it difficult to assume that the policy be down to incompetence rather than a deliberate strategy to dismantle family farm , particularly when combine with the compulsory purchase plan set out by the Deputy Prime Minister this week . labour ' s policy threaten the future of farming , rural business and the community that rely on they . the sustainable farming incentive , inheritance tax relief , biosecurity , and the damage cause to our high street by labour ' s Budget — in each of those area , Labour ' s mismanagement be let down farmer , their family and our rural community . rural Britain can thrive when farmer be support , business be protect and community grow strong . we will continue to fight for that future , and I call on the Government to change course before it be too late for our rural way of life . we will continue to fight for our farming community , include mine in Kingswinford and South Staffordshire . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate , and I thank the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) for lead it . I be always so proud to stand up in this place and represent farmer in Strangford and across Northern Ireland , who be nothing but dedicated to their trade . I declare an interest as a member of the Ulster Farmers Union . Farming be massively important in Northern Ireland , where it contribute £ 2 . 5 billion annually to the economy . furthermore , we be pivotal to the agricultural output of the United Kingdom , account for growth of 5 . 6 % , which be more than any other nation that contribute to this great United Kingdom . Northern Ireland export large amount of beef , dairy and poultry to GB , the Republic of Ireland and far afield . Lakeland Dairies in my Strangford constituency send its milk product all over the world . that create a sense of just how important our farmer be . to state the obvious , it be no secret that I , my party colleague and other member across the House be shock and sadden by the Chancellor ' s decision in November to introduce inheritance tax for family - run farm . the fact be that 65 % of farmer can not and will not survive this . live on a farm and have great relationship with my neighbour — every one of they speak to I before this debate — and local farmer in my constituency , I know all too well the impact this will have . I thank the hon . Gentleman , who be in fact my neighbour , for give way . he talk about the number of farm that will be affect by this . it be far high than the Treasury tell we . we know that the Scotland Office be compile its own figure , to push back against the Treasury figure , which will no doubt be trot out here again today . be there not a fundamental problem here , as the vast majority of farm will be affect by this ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right , and he sum up our view . the decision to introduce the farmer ' inheritance tax will destroy the very essence of what so many farmer have work hard to achieve . I have call on numerous occasion for the Minister to support we . he be an honourable man . he could be a friend of the farmer — we will see just how much of a friend he be — if he contact the Chancellor and suggest to she that one solution be to increase the threshold from £ 1 million to £ 5 million . if that be do , farm will be save , as will the future of family farm in Northern Ireland . do he want to be the farmer ' friend ? I be the farmer ' friend . when the Minister approach the Chancellor and persuade she to increase the threshold from £ 1 million to £ 5 million , he will be my friend forever , and he will be the friend of all the farmer in my constituency . he need to do that . the National Farmers Union and the Ulster Farmers ' Union have the solution . if I can digress slightly , Northern Ireland have one of the high tuberculosis rate in Europe , with over 10 % of our herd affect annually . what discussion have the Minister have with the farming Minister in Northern Ireland , Andrew Muir , in relation to TB and avian flu , to ensure that we can overcome these setback together ? our food security and farming industry matter . it be the young farmer who we be fight for — I be fight for my neighbour ' son who want to have a farm for the future . there be so many expectation on farmer . I be pleased to see that there have be a boost in the conversation surround the decline mental health of our farmer , which be another massive issue . there be no doubt that our farmer need to be support , not tear down by a Government who be mean to represent they . to conclude , I be proud of our farming industry and grateful for it , and I want it to succeed . for those who represent rural constituency or those who do not , the importance of agriculture can not be disregard , and we must make it a goal to preserve , protect and progress the success of farming across Northern Ireland and the rest of the United Kingdom . we need the Minister to stand up for farming ; we all look to he to do that . go to the Chancellor , tell she what we need — to increase the threshold from £ 1 million to £ 5 million — and thing will be well . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) on open the debate and on the thoughtful and knowledgeable speech he make . I also compliment member on both side of the Chamber for what they have say . I be bring up on a farm . I be the wee boy who shoo the cow home to the faraway field . I represent the big constituency in the UK . I have an awful lot of farm and croft in my constituency . farming be part of our way of life . it be about the food we eat . it be about the fight against climate change . it be about our heritage and , in constituency such as mine , it be about the tourism economy . the change of Government have be difficult before . Brexit do not help — we all know that argument — and botch trade deal have not help either . much have be say about the taxation , and I will not repeat it , but I will remark on one thing that have be say , which be that land price in the six Counties of Northern Ireland be much high than in other part of the United Kingdom , so the effect of the taxation will be rather large there . to compound this , cut to defra ' s day - to - day spending mean that many family farm and rural business will struggle . that be why my party be say that we should raise the farming budget by £ 1 billion . if we can do that , perhaps we can help . we want to see a renegotiation of trade agreement to protect british farmer and a strengthening of the Groceries Code Adjudicator . first , I should declare that my partner be a conservation farmer in Somerset . have be parliamentary private Secretary to Vince Cable , the then Business Secretary who set up the Groceries Code Adjudicator , I recall his frustration that the then Prime Minister and Chancellor of the Exchequer refuse to grant the adjudicator the power she need . do my hon . friend agree that the adjudicator will never be able to exercise meaningful control over the big supermarket , which fund its operation through a levy , if the cost of a single investigation be great than its annual budget ? may I ask the Minister through my hon . friend to remedy this decade - old wrong ? my hon . friend bring knowledge from the past , which be very valuable to the debate . my right hon . friend the Member for Orkney and Shetland be also a champion of this cause , and what he say strike a chord among farmer in my constituency . get a fair deal be fundamental to make farm viable for the long term . it be not that we want to do everything , but I hope that the Government will engage constructively with my right hon . friend on this . it be too important to let this one go , and it could be an easy win for the Government and for all of we . the hon . Gentleman be make an excellent speech , but do he agree as a fellow Scottish MP that our farmer be face a double whammy ? not only do we have to deal with the vindictive family farm tax be impose by the Government opposite , but we face the hostile environment that the Scottish National party Government be create towards our farming community in Scotland . I thank the hon . gentleman for his contribution , and what a pity it be that our SNP colleague be not with we at this point , because we both might have something to say about that . there have be a lack of knowledge north of the border — or a lack of understanding , I believe — of thing that be fundamental to the way of life in the constituency we represent at the different end of Scotland . time be short , but I want to conclude by mention three thing that be cause my constituent some anxiety . in particular , I speak with farmer this week and there have be recent publicity about what be know as lab - grow meat , produce from cell in a laboratory environment . it be think that this could be upon we within two year . yes , it be a way of produce food , but what do that mean for our livestock farmer ? that need to be look at very carefully indeed . the second thing I be duty - bind to mention be the low price of malt barley . this be the high - quality barley and be use to make whisky . it be low price because not so much be be buy by the whisky distiller , a reflection of the fact that they be not sell so many bottle of whisky . I be do my good . my right hon . friend be indeed do his bit and never cease to do so , but this again go back to an early point : that farming be intermingle throughout the entire economy . if we can have measure from the Government to increase whisky sale and to encourage export , such as get good - quality Scotch whisky into the indian market , that will in the long term benefit the grower of malt barley , which will make farm more viable again . I be sorry that the hon . member for Aberdeenshire North and Moray East ( Seamus Logan ) be not with we , because , in all fairness , he do make that point . the hon . Gentleman also make a point about seed potato . I welcome the Windsor framework at the time and be thank by the then Prime Minister for do so . it mean we could get our seed potato into Northern Ireland , but I know from talk to seed potato farmer that there be market in Europe cry out to get hold of high - quality scottish seed potato . they be the good , because they be some of the safe from virus , eelworm or whatever . I will be extremely grateful to the government if they use every measure at their disposal to try to improve sale . finally , I want to make rather a strange point . a number of farmer have tell I that people who have work on the farm , sometimes for decade , be now move on to other job . People who drive tractor or use implement to cultivate field be sometimes take the option of go off to drive a digger for a builder , and a labour shortage be begin to occur on some of our farm . that should be a worry not just for way farm be run presently but for find new entrant into farming . I again commend my right hon . friend the Member for Orkney and Shetland for his speech and for bring this debate before we . farming be absolutely fundamental to the country and the way we feed ourselves , and in a world that , as we have see , be quite dangerous to say the least , the more we feed ourselves and the less we rely on import , the well . I call the shadow Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs . I congratulate the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) on secure this important debate . I thank he for bring his expertise as Chair of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee to the discussion . may I welcome , although I be not suppose to , the farmer in the Public Gallery who have be know make their view , not all of they terribly happy , about various contribution during the debate , and the tractor outside ? we can not hear the tractor in the Chamber , but they have be toot as loudly as they possibly can . I be not sure the tooting be to welcome the SFI scandal that emerge on Tuesday , but no doubt the farming Minister , the hon . member for Cambridge ( Daniel Zeichner ) , will be able to help we with that . this debate should have be fill with positivity and confidence about the future of british farming . instead , it have be overshadow by this Labour Government ' s farming fiasco . in just a few short month , this city - dwell Government have destroy family ' ambition for the future , put at risk generation of expertise and custodianship and , less than 48 hour ago , rip the rug out from underneath business immediately . this Government have treat farmer and the countryside with unashamed contempt , and that contempt have consequence . the NFU announce this week that farm business confidence have reach historically low level , and that be before the SFI scandal on Tuesday night . new tractor registration be at the low level since 1998 . when I visit the Lincolnshire Agricultural Machinery Manufacturers Association in January — the farming Minister apparently could not make it — manufacturer be tell I how people be not invest in new machinery as a direct result of the Budget . I be afraid RoboCrop will have to wait for the next Conservative Government . just as the Chancellor inherit the fast - grow economy in the G7 and have grind it down into stagflation , so too the Secretary of State inherit a grow farming sector that have go through massive change since Brexit , but be seize the new farming and environmental opportunity available . after a few month of this city - centric Government , farming family be feel " ignore , alienated and disrespect " , to use the Secretary of State ' s own word . but where be the Secretary of State ? I have be hunt high and low for he , but nowhere be he to be find . he have a major announcement yesterday , but he send his poor junior Minister out to take the flak because the Secretary of State be miss in action . where be rural labour mp ? [ hon . member : " here ! " ] we have hear about a rebel force — rise — oh , I would not do that if I be you . we have hear about a rebel force of Labour MPs who be go to stand up to the Government on the family farm tax . this debate be their chance to show their support for their farmer , but where be they ? a total of 10 Labour mp have turn up and six have speak — that be 1 . 4 % of the parliamentary party . the Labour Government ' s farming fiasco policy can be summarise in three point : they will remove , without warning , farming and environmental scheme that help farm thrive and on which farm build their business case ; they will permit the state to seize farmland without consent or market value ; and , if family farm manage to cling on despite that , Labour will tax farmer for die . let we deal with the first point : the abrupt halting of the sustainable farming incentive and the massive cut to delinked payment . the Government sneak the SFI decision out late on Tuesday night , before be drag to the Dispatch Box by we yesterday . that be a chaotic and inept way for a government to treat taxpayer , business and family . yesterday , the Minister keep use the figure of £ 5 billion for farming over two year — 2024 - 25 and 2025 - 26 . of course , the funding for the first year , 2024 - 25 , be set by the previous Government , include the £ 300 million that be roll over from the previous year . it be for Labour Ministers to set the budget for 2025 - 26 after the spending review . will the Minister confirm that the DEFRA budget will not face substantial cut in the spending review , give he have rely on that figure so much ? if he can not confirm that , then those figure be meaningless , as Ministers be count money for 2025 - 26 that could be remove at a stroke by the Chancellor . the decision on SFI have consequence , as my right hon . friend the Member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) and my hon . friend the Members for Mid Norfolk ( George Freeman ) , for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) and for Kingswinford and South Staffordshire ( Mike Wood ) have make clear . David from Gloucestershire , a farmer , ask the Minister whether he should simply plough up his farm and turn his back on 25 year of farming with an environmental focus . he say : " we be a small family farm … I win ' t be able to afford environmental principle , everyone lose but the environment mostly . " we have hear from hon . member about how farmer have contact they because they face a financial crisis as a result of this decision , yet the no - farming Minister tell they that they should be celebrate — well , the tractor outside do not seem to be toot in celebration at his announcement yesterday . let we move on to delinked payment , which be cut in the Budget . ten of thousand of farmer who be not sign up to SFI in any of its iteration be still be subject to a 76 % cut in their delinked direct payment , leave many in cash flow crisis , include tenant farmer . that be not mention at all by the hon . member for Shrewsbury ( Julia Buckley ) , for South West Norfolk ( Terry Jermy ) , for Cannock Chase ( Josh Newbury ) , for Suffolk Coastal ( Jenny Riddell - Carpenter ) , for St Austell and Newquay ( Noah Law ) or for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland ( Luke Myer ) . an urgent issue face the industry be the importance of biosecurity to the future of farming . the second case of foot and mouth disease in Europe be alarming , but we have hear nothing from the Government on that . will the Minister confirm whether funding for Dover Port Health Authority have now be agree , outline how he be prevent the rise trend of bushmeat be sell over social medium platform and explain why the Government continue to ignore our call to increase funding for the redevelopment of Weybridge ? I can reveal what the Secretary of State and the Farming Minister have be prioritise this week . they have issue a consultation not on SFI , the family farm tax or cut to delinked payment , but on how to carry a chicken . I be sure everybody think that really be the national priority for farming at the moment . let we turn to the Government ' s plan to undercut property right and force farmer to sell their land at below market value . this be a policy that go against the fundamental british principle of land ownership and put food security and price at risk — my hon . friend set out the case on that . we then move on to the point make about the family farm tax , which the hon . member for North Somerset ( Sadik Al - Hassan ) criticise as be a distraction . the hon . member for Suffolk Coastal seem to be argue for more taxis on farmer , but at least those Labour Members mention the family farm tax . the hon . member for Shrewsbury , for South West Norfolk , for Cannock Chase , for St Austell and Newquay and for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland do not see fit to mention it , because they be ignore the fact of life on this . as Conservative member know , this policy be have a genuine emotional and economic toll on farmer throughout the United Kingdom . one farmer tell I : " I ' ve stop encourage my daughter to spend time on the farm so I don ' t have to have the conversation of why she can ' t take over in the future . " this Government be rob the next generation of farmer of their future , and this be also have a devastating impact on elderly farmer . it be share in the Senedd this week that a farmer decline cancer treatment month before his death as he want to make sure that he die before these change come into effect . that be desperately harrowing , yet we be be tell this week in , week out by farming organisation , all because the Chancellor — who , by the way , refuse to meet farmer — be destroy british farming with her taxation policy . this be not just about the family farm tax : it be about the family business tax , the national insurance hike , the fertiliser tax and the double cab pick - up tax , which be all set out by the hon . member for Upper Bann ( Carla Lockhart ) and my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham . you name it , the Government will tax it . that be why my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham say that farmer see no future in farming under this Government . in the word of one mid Devon farmer : " at no time in all these year have I feel so deflate with the job . " to the farmer despair at this city - dwell government : please know that we conservative hear you , support you and will work with you to mend the outright assault on the countryside that this Labour Government be carry out . together , we will build a bright future for farming . I thank the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) and congratulate he on secure this very important debate on the future of farming . I will not say that I agree with all his conclusion in his opening comment , although I listen to they closely , but I thank he and his fellow member of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee for their continue work . I look forward to meet his Committee in time . I be very grateful to have the opportunity to talk about the very important role that farm play in this country , because food security be national security , and our commitment to farmer be absolutely steadfast . it be the hard work of the UK ' s farmer that put food on our table and steward our beautiful countryside . as we all know , though , the sector be face high cost and tight margin . farmer have struggle to get enough worker to pick fruit and veg , and frankly , they have be sell out in past trade deal . Farmland be increasingly at risk from severe flooding and drought , and this all come as we face the big transition for farming in generation , move away from the basic payment scheme towards more sustainable method of farming . the underlying problem in the sector be that farmer do not make enough money for the hard work and commitment that they put in . we be absolutely committed to make farming more profitable , and that approach will underpin our 25 - year farming road map and our food strategy , through which we will work in partnership with farmer to make farming and food production sustainable and profitable . that road map stand on three principle , the first of which be a sector that have food production at its core . the role of farming will always be to produce the food that feed our nation . the instability that we have see , both relate to Ukraine and during covid , show that food security truly be national security . the second principle be a sector in which farm business be more resilient and able to withstand the shock that disrupt farming from time to time , whether it be severe flooding , drought or disease . we will help farmer who want to diversify their income to put more money into their business , so that they can survive those more difficult time when they come . will the Minister give way ? I be go to make some progress , because I know that time be short . the third principle be a sector that recognise that restore nature be not in competition with sustainable food production , but be essential to it . on our first strand — food production — our new deal for farmer be support they to produce food sustainably and profitably , and we be make progress . statistic release early this week show that average farm business income across the country be forecast to rise in the first year of this Government . that be welcome news , but we recognise that there be more to do . that certainly will not happen overnight , but over recent week , we have announce a series of new policy . we be extend the seasonal worker visa for five year , and we be make the supply chain fairer , an issue raise by my hon . friend the Members for North Somerset ( Sadik Al - Hassan ) and for Suffolk Coastal ( Jenny Riddell - Carpenter ) . in the next few week , we will see new regulation for the pig sector , make sure that contract clearly set out expectation and only allow change if they be agree by all party . of course , we be also introduce a new regulator alongside the Groceries Code Adjudicator , build on the work of the exist regulator — the Agricultural Supply Chain Adjudicator , which be already in place . we be use the Government ' s own purchasing power to back british produce , work with the Cabinet Office to create new requirement for Government catering contract to favour high - quality , high - welfare product that british producer be well place to provide , as be outline very well by my hon . friend the Member for Shrewsbury ( Julia Buckley ) . that will mean that british farmer and producer can compete for a fair share of the £ 5 billion a year that the public sector spend on food , with that money go straight into farmer ’ bank account to boost turnover and profit . we will never lower our food standard in trade agreement , but will promote robust standard nationally and internationally , and will always consider whether overseas produce have an unfair advantage . that point be make by my hon . friend the Member for St Austell and Newquay ( Noah Law ) and by other . we be invest in the UK agri - technology sector , and I listen closely to the comment make by the hon . member for Mid Norfolk ( George Freeman ) — there be always much that we agree on . as we announce last month , we be look to put in a furth £ 110 million in farming grant , and we be also strengthen the wide british tech sector , a point that be make well by my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland ( Luke Myer ) . these reform will support farmer to make more money from the food they produce . on the second strand , diversification , farmer must be resilient against future challenge if they be to remain financially viable and strengthen food security . we know the threat from flooding , drought and animal disease , as well as the geopolitical tension that increase demand on our land for energy generation . we be invest to help farm business build resilience against animal disease that can devastate livelihood and threaten our entire economy — we be all mindful of the issue with bluetongue and avian flu . on the recent case of foot and mouth that we see in Germany and the one in Hungary , I speak to the hungarian Minister early this week , and we have put in place all the appropriate precaution . as ever , though , if the shadow Secretary of State want a briefing with the chief vet , that be always available in these case . we be invest over £ 200 million to set up a new national biosecurity centre , modernise the Animal and Plant Health Agency facility in Weybridge , which will be vital for protect farmer , food producer and exporter from disease outbreak that we know can be devastating to business . we be help keeper of cattle , sheep and pig in England to improve the health , welfare and productivity of their animal by expand the fully fund farm visit offer . we have also announce new way to help farmer to remain profitable and viable , even in a challenging harvest . we will consult on national planning reform this spring to make it quick for farmer to build new building , barn and other infrastructure to boost food production , and we will ensure that permit development right work for farm to convert large barn into whatever be require or suit their business planning , whether that be a farm shop , a holiday let or a sport facility . we be work with the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero so that more farm business can connect their own electricity generation to the grid more quickly , so that farmer can sell surplus energy and diversify income . the third element be nature . restore nature be vital to food production ; it be not in competition with it . healthy soil , abundant pollinator and clean water be the foundation that farm business rely on to produce high crop yield and turn a profit . without nature thrive , there can be no long - term food security . that point be well make by my hon . friend the Member for South West Norfolk ( Terry Jermy ) . we now have more than half of all farmer in environmental scheme . that include 37 , 000 live SFI agreement , mean that 800 , 000 hectare of arable land be be farm without insecticide , 300 , 000 hectare of low - impact grassland be manage sustainably and 75 , 000 km of hedgerow be be protect and restore . that be important for nature . we have already have a discussion about the SFI cap . it be set at £ 1 . 05 billion for 2024 - 25 and 2025 - 26 . as we discuss yesterday , that cap be reach this week with a record number of farmer in the scheme and 37 , 000 live agreement . every penny be now pay to farmer or commit for payment through exist agreement or submit application . we will continue to support farmer to transition to more sustainable farming model , and we will announce detail of the revise scheme after the spending review . the clarification that everybody want be this : we see the figure last night , and they cut across two year , so what be the money for this financial year — 2024 - 25 — that the Minister describe as a cap ? what be the value that he reach on Tuesday night that lead to that announcement ? we have be far more transparent in disclose how the budget work than the previous Government . the figure be disclose last night , and the shadow Secretary of State can look closely at that . as she will know , we have to monitor thing closely over multiple year . what we can not and will not do be play fast and loose with the nation ' s finance . we be take no lesson from the Conservatives about how to manage public money in this country . this be about use public money in a way that support food production , restore nature and respect farmer for the effective business people that they be , while ensure that we stick to our budget . we be also improve other farming scheme . the Government have announce an increase in high level stewardship payment rate across a range of option for this year . we will reopen the ELM capital grant scheme and open the rolling application window for the countryside stewardship high tier later this year . we be continue with the important landscape recovery project that be award funding in round 1 and 2 , as well as some of the other fund reference by my hon . friend the Member for Cannock Chase ( Josh Newbury ) . it be those three strand that will create a resilient , profitable sector for decade to come . I look forward to continue this important discussion with member from all part of the House . I call Alistair Carmichael to quickly wind up . since I open this debate , Douglas Paterson , a seventh - generation farmer in my constituency , have send I a copy of a letter address to his great - grandfather from 10 Downing Street , date 5 March 1917 . it state : " dear Sir , we have now reach a crisis in the war when to ensure victory , the heroism of our army at the Front must be back by the self - sacrifice and tireless labour of everyone at home . to this end the production of each quarter of wheat and oats , and of each bushel of potato be of vital importance . " the letter finish by say that " the Government be confident that Farmers will at once step forward and do all in their power to utilise their service to the good advantage . the farmer of this country can defeat the german submarine and when they do so they destroy the last hope of the Prussian . " it be sign " d . Lloyd George " . the fact that we can stand in this Chamber today and debate this matter be a testament to the fact that Charles Paterson and his generation do step forward , and it be why we have a solemn and historic duty to ensure that his great - grandson can continue to do the same . I can think of no well definition of what be mean by " national interest " . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the future of farming . Mental Health support : Educational Settings I beg to move , that this House have consider mental health support in educational setting . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant this debate , and the mps from across the House who support its application . I also thank Emily Horsfall , my team and the staff at the Mental Health Foundation for their support in prepare for today ' s debate . there should be no doubt that good mental health and wellbeing be as critical to the progression of our young people as physical health be . protect mental health at an early age can have a defining impact on lifelong resilience and ensure positive mental health outcome . at a time when young people up and down the country — especially girl and young woman — face a barrage of challenge from what feel like a never - end conveyor belt of demeaning and misogynistic content on social medium , the consequence of the covid - 19 pandemic and the cost of living crisis , this be a timely debate , and I thank hon . member who have stay in the Chamber to contribute to it . much of what I will say today reflect my conversation with young people , parent , teacher and professional in my constituency of Redditch and the village . when they approach I on a visit , when I be food shopping in Tesco or at one of my surgery , they display courage and determination to build a system that be fit for purpose and which will ensure that all child get the support they need to have the most fulfilling life possible . I hope this debate can be about how we can support our school and education professional , who be not train mental health professional but be so often on the frontline , to ensure that our child get the good support they can at the most appropriate time . I commend the hon . gentleman for bring forward this issue . I be just look at some of the stat for Northern Ireland in order to support his argument . in 2023 , pupil with disability report low level of general wellbee across all measure than those who be not disabled . do he agree that access to pastoral care team , who be equip and train to help those with decline mental health due to disability , would be one way of address this very issue ? I think that be the first time the hon . Gentleman have intervene on I , so I feel very honoured . I absolutely agree with he , and I will talk about other affected group later in my remark . I thank he for his intervention . I hope this debate can be about how we support our school and education professional , but I also hope that the discussion raise awareness about the challenge face young people . I know that some people like to hand - wave away any discussion about mental health problem among child and young people . since the announcement of this debate , I have read previous debate elsewhere , and a few people have whisper in my ear that they do not believe that child be resilient enough these day . well , I simply do not buy that argument . I know it make some uncomfortable when young people talk about their mental health challenge , but it can only be positive that awareness and the mainstreaming of mental health condition have give so many across society the confidence to have honest conversation about how they be feel and the impact that other ' action can have on their mental health . what do the statistic tell we about the state of our young people ' s mental health ? nhs statistic show we that about one in five child and young people age eight to 25 have a probable mental disorder in 2023 , and that the number of urgent referral of child and young people to emergency mental health service have triple since 2019 . the uncomfortable truth be that waiting list for child and adolescent mental health service can be a postcode lottery . for instance , in November last year , the average waiting time for a child to receive a referral for a first appointment in Hereford and Worcestershire be seven week , compare with the national average of five week . from freedom of information request , we know that one child wait almost two year for an appointment . referral at the Hereford and Worcestershire health and care NHS trust have increase by 118 % in the last five year — a trend that be reflect across the country . I thank my hon . friend for secure this Backbench Business debate . that statistic of one in five young people have a mental health condition must concern we all . I hear from my own constituent in Shipley that they be wait a long time to get their child see on the NHS — whether for an attention deficit hyperactivity disorder assessment or to get medication — and during that time the child be unable to participate in school . do my hon . friend agree that it be vital that child and young people get access to mental health support and that we get wait time down so that they can participate properly in school ? I absolutely agree . this be about parity between mental and physical health . we would move heaven and earth if those child have physical injury , and we must do more to assess and treat the mental health condition from which young people be suffer . my hon . friend make a valid point about the need for parity between mental health and physical health . do he agree that there be actually a connection between the two ? quite often , poor physical health can impact the mental health of a young person , and vice versa . I agree entirely . many of the young people I have speak to have suffer from long - term physical condition or illness that have have a detrimental impact on their mental health . there be evidence that the severity of mental distress have increase . admission to acute medical ward for child and young people with mental health concern increase by 65 % between 2012 and 2022 . the mental health report by the Association of Colleges , publish in September , find that 90 % of respondent report an increase in disclosure of mental health issue in 16 to 18 - year - old and 86 % do so for those over 19 . Most college be increase their mental health resource , but the need for join - up and well - resource service be urgent . the report find that almost a third of college report at least one death by suicide in the previous year . it be distress to consider that such an escalation can and do happen , and that be why this debate be so important . despite the expansion of child and young people ' s mental health service , increase demand mean that the NHS estimate that less than half of those with such need be be support . the Children and Young People ' s Mental Health Coalition find that certain group have an increase likelihood of be impact by mental health challenge , such as child and young people with special educational need and disability , those from racialise and LGBTQ + background , neuro - divergent young people , those with physical or long - term condition , young carer , child in care , and refugee and migrant child . child in kinship care arrangement also have a high prevalence of social , emotional and mental health need similar to those of look - after child , but owe to their less entitlement and a lack of access to suitable support , their experience and need should be consider when design vital mental health support in education setting . the complexity of the issue that may impact on a child ' s mental health be the reason why mental health charity have be campaign for a cross - Government mental health approach for such a long time , and I hope this Government will deliver on that . why be education establishment so crucial to this debate ? the Centre for Mental Health have publish research show that 75 % of lifetime mental health difficulty occur before the age of 24 and that 50 % occur before the age of 14 . that be why education setting be critical in address this national crisis . of course , school and college be see as place where child learn academic skill , but they be also safe place for some to seek support . currently , mental health provision in education setting in England be varied . mental health support team can be find in almost 50 % of school , and they have prove highly effective . research publish by Barnardo ' s have demonstrate that for each £ 1 invest , the Government have save £ 1 . 90 . the education and health official I have speak to say that we must reach England - wide coverage of mhst as soon as possible . if this be do in combination with the Government ' s promise to deliver a school counsellor in every school , that would be a powerful indicator of their commitment to tackle the crisis . I thank the hon . member for give way on this hugely important subject . as I be sure be the case for other member across the House , I find that child ' s mental health be one of the subject that come up most frequently on the doorstep , with parent really struggle to get the mental health care that their child need . one of the question that be ask most frequently be : how can we afford to increase mental health care ? do he agree with I that it be actually more cost - effective to provide timely mental health support than to end up treat people when they have be sicker for long ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention . I would argue that we can not afford not to engage in early prevention and early intervention . it do save the Government money far down the line . my hon . friend will know that suicide be the main cause of death for young people under the age of 35 in the UK . for those under 18 , school be where they spend the majority of their life , and somewhere we have an opportunity to make change . will my hon . friend join I in pay tribute to the 3 Dads Walking , who have play a significant role in ensure that this issue stay on the agenda and in tackle the assumption that talk about suicide make it more likely to happen ? I thank my hon . friend for that important contribution to this debate and I pay tribute to the group she mention . it be such a critical issue to the future of our young people . I congratulate anyone who come into this space and make a positive difference to the outcome . despite the good effort of many teacher , education setting be yet to have much of that dedicated support . the experience of some young people and their family show that the support on offer in some school be not sufficient . the Mental Health Foundation work with whole family to support they in develop their mental health together . ahead of this debate , it ask two of the participant in one of its programme in London , Bemi and her daughter Ayo , to share their own experience . Bemi say that the Government " say be go to invest in child ' s mental health , but this isn ' t happen . there be a lot of pressure on child " these day . she say that " it be have a toll on child ' s mental health , and as a parent , I be also feel this strain of see the constant breakdown " and the failure to access support . her 13 - year - old daughter Ayo suggest that school need to be much more proactive in ask about child ' s mental health : " nobody be ask how we feel and never attempt to get to the root cause of thing ; they only pick up on when you be behave irrationally but never try to figure out why you feel this way . " school staff be often the first point of contact when a pupil struggle with their mental health , so they need to feel confident to support their pupil and be able to spot the sign of difficulty . Education Support , a charity support the mental health and wellbeing of teaching and education staff , find that 74 % of staff often help pupil with personal matter beyond their academic work . educator be fill in where there be gap , far highlight the need for join - up and embed service . I totally agree with my hon . friend that school and teacher be at the forefront of the mental health crisis face our child . I recently visit a local primary school , Burley and Woodhead Church of England primary , and I pay tribute to the staff there for the excellent work they do to support the young people with their mental health and to make it much easy for they to talk about it . do my hon . friend agree that it be vital that school have adequate resource to provide such support ? I thank my hon . friend for her intervention ; I absolutely agree . it be not just young people who be struggle . the additional workload of carry out wellbee check , sometimes in distressing situation , be take its toll on staff : 78 % of all staff be stress in education setting , rise to 84 % among senior leader . no one can do their good at work if they be mentally deplete , and healthy teacher can well provide high - quality support for their pupil . what else can we do ? we can not ignore the other factor that have a significant impact on a young person ' s wellbee , which be why we need a whole - of - Government approach . child and young people might be experience poor - quality housing and overcrowding , family member in low - pay and insecure work , or the inability to get a GP or NHS dentist appointment when they need it — all challenge that I be glad this Government be take action to remedy . but we can go far . " a mentally Healthier Nation " , a report unanimously endorse by mental health charity , call for the roll - out of anti - bully programme across the country . crucially , the evidence show that these programme work well when deliver in a " whole school " way . that is , rather than take a narrow approach base on discipline , the student and staff body understand what constitute bully and its impact , stand against it and have tactic to prevent it . these programme have be test and show to be effective . they create healthy school environment , prevent mental health problem in the future and lead to economic gain . the cost of pick up the piece of childhood bullying in later life be enormous , as be the loss to the labour market it can cause , as well as the toll of bully in the here and now . young people can text Shout , a crisis line , for help when they be be bully . those who run the service report texter struggle with suicidal thought , urge to self - harm , insomnia and feeling of depression and anxiety . some refer to the anger , shame , fear , confusion , vulnerability , hopelessness and frustration that result from be bully . other speak about their lack of focus and poor performance at school as a result of their bullying . we also need to look at innovative way that have be develop to address the threat our young people be experience . in a world where so - call influencer like Andrew Tate can get their claw into our young man ' s mind , we need to look to at work such as the Mental Health Foundation ' s " become a man " programme . currently operate in Lambeth and Islington , it work with young man age 12 to 16 who face disadvantage and inequality that put they at great risk of develop mental health problem . it create a safe space for young man to come together and discuss issue about their life , take into account their live experience and the often difficult environment they navigate . it help they to develop strength such as integrity , self - determination , positive anger expression and respect for woman . early evaluation of this work be promise , and government support be need to grow the evidence base . school have a vital role in understand young people ' s online experience and how they might impact their mental health . the girlguide girl ' attitude survey find that one in eight young people age 13 to 18 have see sexual threat direct at woman and girl online , include those of rape . one in eight girl say that they have receive sexual threat online from stranger or someone they know . over a year after the passing of the Online Safety Act 2023 , suicide , eat disorder , race hate and incel forum remain easily accessible , and it be not clear if and when action might be take against they . give Ofcom ' s permissive approach , it be likely that school staff will need to understand what sort of community pupil be involve in and the impact they be have on they . at a time when 36 % of boy say they have have Andrew Tate content show to they by a friend in school , the onslaught against young girl ' self - confidence , value and worth go far than be content on a screen ; it be put they at risk . how do we pull all this together ? preventive mental health initiative , perhaps overwhelm by the complexity of the challenge , be scatter and rarely appropriately fund , and they often do not learn from each other . sometimes , we even use localism as an excuse to neither fund system nor hold they accountable . we must create a public mental health infrastructure . the Mental Health Foundation describe it as have a clear road map , lead by evidence , in which every part of the system know its own responsibility for reduce mental health problem , and be fund and hold accountable for its delivery . that mean re - examine the public health grant , which despite a welcome uplift this year be still well below 2015 level . it mean ringfence funding for school and the NHS tie to specific outcome . it also mean the roll - out of England - wide mental health support team and counsellor in each school . the Children and Young People ' s Mental Health Coalition respond to the NHS 10 - year plan consultation , call for the plan to financially support integrate care system to deliver a comprehensive road map for mental health for 0 to 25 - year - old . the Association of Colleges find that more than 30 % of college be not involve in their local suicide prevention plan , and 65 % state that they do not have a joint provision with their local NHS trust . it be clear that to keep child well and safe , our NHS service and their commission body must be fully integrate into mental health support in educational setting . school , college and university should be include in local mental health strategy , and datum should be share freely . I be excite by the Government ' s pledge to roll out Young Futures hub , which aim to bring local service together , deliver support for teenager at risk of be draw into crime or face mental health challenge , and , where appropriate , deliver universal youth provision . these initiative could represent the start of such an infrastructure and an implementation plan for a national network of these hub . the Royal College of Psychiatrists state that the hub have the potential to support some of the most minoritise child who might not be able to access CAMHS or school - base service consistently . I be pleased to see that the NHS remain committed to expand access to child and young people ' s mental health service , and that the operational planning guidance recognise that early intervention improve outcome for child throughout their life , reduce long - term pressure on health service , and benefit the economy and wide society . I urge the Government to seize this moment and see if they can create a true network of mental health support across the country by get anti - bully programme in place , follow the evidence and commit to relentlessly drive down level of poor mental health , and thereby build mentally healthy community in our school and beyond . prevention , early help and treatment can help young people to deliver positive outcome . yes , many of the measure I have refer to today and those already announce by the Government will require significant investment , but the cost of inaction and the knock - on impact on education and child ' s social care would far outweigh any initial outlay . now be the time for action . rise — Order . I think eight member be hope to contribute . we will calibrate again . there will be a time limit of four minute , because I want to make sure they all get in . I thank the hon . member for Redditch ( Chris Bloore ) for secure this debate and for talk about the importance of these programme , and for mention anti - bully programme as well . I also thank the other hon . member who have speak about the wide mental health crisis and the extent to which teacher be pick up the piece — these be all vital issue to talk about . I be proud to say there have be some groundbreaking work on mental health support in educational setting in my constituency . a campaign lead by young people and back by Citizens UK secure funding for more counselling capacity in local school , and be a genuine cause of city - wide pride . the £ 200 , 000 of investment from Brighton and Hove city council will support hundred of young people with counselling across the city , include many in my constituency . I be very inspire by the work of the student press the council for this support — notably Fi Abou - Chanad and Tally Wilcox , who put their case directly to the council — and speak about they in my maiden speech . I be grateful to Brighton and Hove city council , which back up its word with fund to support this vital work , and I be pleased that , follow the pilot , it will now fund 2025 - 56 as well . the key request now from the British Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy and Citizens UK be for government - fund school counselling provision deliver by specialist child and young people counsellor and psychotherapist on a statutory basis . I welcome the pledge from the Government to introduce a mental health professional accessible in every school , and I hope we will see real investment in a national school counselling programme promise by Ministers today . to conclude , I once again thank the hon . member for Redditch for secure this debate , and once again pay tribute to the courage and campaigning of the young people who I know be out there all around the country , in all our constituency , demand support . nothing could be of more value or more importance than invest in the thriving of the mental health of our young people , and particularly in school . thank you so much for keep well within the time limit . I call the Chair of the Education Committee . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Redditch ( Chris Bloore ) on secure this important debate and on his excellent speech . the starting point for think about mental health service in educational setting must be an understanding of the foundational nature of good mental health and wellbee in everything we seek to do in life . challenge with mental health be corrosive in every aspect of our life . depression or anxiety can ruin the happy of celebration on the sunniest of day , prevent we from focus on essential task , affect our relationship with friend , family member and colleague and leave people feel unable even to get out of bed in the morning . that be true for all of we as adult , and it be equally true for child and young people . good mental health and wellbeing be essential for access and get the most out of education , yet our child and young people be suffer an epidemic of poor mental health and wellbeing , and it be hold they back . on visit to school in our constituency , I be sure all member will have hear headteacher , senior leader and teacher in our classroom talk about the challenge the young people in their class face with their mental health . that be bear out by the datum , too . in 2023 , one in five child age eight to 16 have a probable mental health disorder such as depression or anxiety , while the rate of probable mental health disorder among young people age 17 to 19 have increase over just five year from a tenth in 2017 to more than a quarter by 2022 . in this context , I welcome the Government ' s commitment to place a mental health professional in every school across the country . however , I wish to raise some additional point that will be relevant to the effectiveness of that roll - out . the first be clarity on the level of qualification that the mental health professional in every school will be require to have , which I hope the Minister can provide . the second be on their remit : in addition to deliver service to young people , will they be expect to drive a culture across the whole school that be conducive to good mental health and wellbee ? that , as we all know , will involve the buy - in of the most senior school leader . there be also other area outside school that be relevant to child ' s mental health and wellbeing , include the crisis in our special educational need and disability system , which be have a profound impact on child ' s mental health and wellbeing . my Committee hear this week from child who have be hospitalise and diagnose with post - traumatic stress disorder as a consequence not of their additional need , but of be in school that be unable to meet their need . I know that the Minister be aware of the urgent need to reform our SEND system . mental health professional in school will also quickly be overwhelmed if we can not get to grip with the crisis affect our child and young people as a consequence of their addiction to smart phone and their access to social medium , which we know be make they more anxious , less able to focus , more sleep deprive and more stress out . I welcome the measure that the Minister announce in response to the Bill of my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) , but I do believe that there be a need to go far with this urgent crisis , which be affect the mental health and wellbeing of our child . finally , I wish to touch on the vital issue of CAMHS wait time . we have GPs to prescribe antibiotic so that infection do not become sepsis , or blood pressure medication to prevent a heart attack or stroke , but when an infection have become a critical illness , or a patient have suffer a heart attack or stroke , we would not think for one second that it be appropriate to send they back to their gp . yet that be exactly what happen to far too many child and young people who be seriously mentally unwell . it be an unacceptable situation and , as well as look at mental health and wellbeing support in education setting , we also need to look at how our NHS can deliver much more quickly and effectively for child whose problem be much more serious than that . I thank the hon . member for Redditch ( Chris Bloore ) for secure this important debate . it be time to acknowledge that special educational need and mental health provision in school be one of the great crisis that we face today , although I do appreciate that there be a lot of competition for that particular accolade . financial pressure have significantly impact CAMHS funding in my constituency of Horsham . despite a modest 0 . 6 % fee uplift for Sussex , the sector have face a mandate 15 % funding reduction — approximately £ 1 . 6 million — and that be couple with rise staff cost due to high national insurance contribution and an increase in the national living wage . meanwhile , demand just keep on go up . since September 2020 , Sussex CAMHS have experience a substantial rise in referral , attribute to the pandemic and the easing of lockdown restriction . this surge have adversely affect waiting time for initial assessment and treatment . the crisis be even sharp at the local education authority funding level . my local authority , West Sussex , have a dedicated school grant deficit schedule to go past £ 130 million by April . it be allow to keep this off the balance sheet for another year , but there be only so long that we can maintain the fantasy that this service can be afford without major central Government intervention . Most of all , the pain be be feel at the school level , and by the child and family who experience the many failing and gap in service . I have be contact by no few than five school in the past fortnight alone regard this issue . typical of their message be this from Holbrook primary school governing board : " school , trust and local authority be overwhelm by the rise number of pupil who be seek additional support and the ever - increase cost of provide assistance . urgent action be require now to help solve the crisis in SEND , so the future of our child be not blight by a system that be not fit for purpose . " have visit many school recently , I note that teacher be verge on desperation . I note too their love for the child they be look after . they desperately want to help they , but they be in an impossible situation . there be , I be afraid to say , an element of physical danger in some case . this be not the child ' s fault ; this be our fault . Horsham school be ask for health service to take on more of the strain , because they be at break point . although mental health provision in school have clear benefit , we must ensure that this provision do not fall on school budget . mental health support team cover about 44 % of school in the UK , and come from NHS budget , not school budget . that should become 100 % coverage . the pressure on school to cope with more and more SEN child , with little or no extra funding , be set to undo every gain we have make in educational standard over the past decade . I appreciate that the Government be take at least some action to assist the situation now , but I urge they to use every lever at their disposal to avert this crisis before it spin entirely out of control . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Redditch ( Chris Bloore ) on secure this debate , and I be grateful to the Backbench Business Committee for find time for it . I know from experience that our mental health system be overstretch and under - resource . in fact , there have never be so much demand for mental health support from child and young people . in June , the number of active CAMHS referral in England be a record 840 , 000 . it be clear that this Government inherit a crisis in child and young people ' s mental health . we all want young people to be happy , healthy and safe , and to be equip with everything that they need to achieve and thrive as adult . but with half of mental health issue develop by the time that young people reach the age of 14 , and three quarter before the age of 24 , early intervention in mental health support for child and young people be essential . last year , I meet the parent of a young woman struggle with her mental health in my constituency . she be not in crisis , but she do need some additional support . her school encourage her parent to withdraw she because they could not provide the support , which her parent do because they do not know what else to do . that have leave she out of education for over 18 month and severely in crisis . do my hon . friend agree that early intervention in school be crucial for break down barrier ? I agree , and I have many similar case . I want to refer some real - life example . there be an excellent exhibition in the Upper Waiting Hall this week about the Mental Health Act , which have be put together by Mind . it feature artwork and write piece by people who have be detain under the current Act . I have the pleasure of meet some of they on Monday , include a young lady call Afeefa . Afeefa be 19 but be first detain under the Act when she be 14 . she speak powerfully and movingly about the treatment that she endure while she be under section . when I ask she if there be one thing that could have help she , she say without hesitation that if she have receive mental health support at an early stage , her experience would have be very different . I recall two example from my experience of work in mental health system that demonstrate the difference that early intervention and support can make . they be of two young people of similar age : one be a teenage boy , who unfortunately have not be able to access the support he need and , as a result , be struggle to cope . that be not only impact on his mental health but be have a detrimental impact on his family , especially his parent . by contrast , in the second case , the parent of a teenage girl who have be diagnose with a mental health condition know that I work in mental health at the time and come to see I . I be able to ensure that she be refer to CAMHS at an early stage . as a result , both she and her parent be do well . she be due to sit her a - level in the summer . these example underline how child who receive support quickly be less likely to develop long - term condition that negatively affect their education , social development and health later in life . I welcome the fact that my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Education have be clear that child ' s wellbeing will be a priority for this Government . research from the British Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy indicate that child whose mental health difficulty be initially too complex for low intensity intervention , but not complex enough to be refer to high intensity intervention such as CAMHS , can easily miss out on the mental health support that they need . ensure enough mental health support for child and young people in educational setting will help to free up NHS time and resource , while make sure that we have a healthy and productive population in the future . we should also make sure that support exist in the community . can the Minister provide an update on the Government ' s plan for Young Futures hub ? do he agree that open access drop - in hub could be an important step in provide community - base mental health support for child and young people ? there be clear evidence that the place and circumstance in which people be bear grow , study , live and work have a powerful influence on their mental health . as place2be have say , child and young people from low - income family be four time more likely to experience mental health problem than child from high income family , while one in four child and young people with a diagnose mental health condition live in a household that have experience a reduction in household income . this be why I want reform of the way that we deal with mental health . from Westminster , I would like great cross - Government work to address the social detriment of our mental health . at a local level , I believe that great co - operation between school , college and university , along with local health provider and other in the local community , can help create education setting that be effective at protect young people ' s mental health and general wellbeing . take that long - term approach will help create a society that prevent mental ill health for child and young people in the first place . due to the number of withdrawal , member may have notice that we have stop the clock time speech . there be two colleague leave , and I will allow you to police yourself . member on the Front Benches want to be up by 4 . 30 pm , so I will let you manage the time between yourself . I have just go through my speech and scratch out quite a lot , but you will probably be pleased about that , Madam Deputy Speaker . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Redditch ( Chris Bloore ) for his effort to secure this important debate . be an MP be a difficult job to define . it be true that there be 650 way to be an MP and we be all find our way , but in choose such a subject for his debate , my hon . friend show his humanity and the man that he be . I commend he for that . with debate such as this one , we can do good in this place . we have a profound opportunity to profile issue we and our constituent care about and amplify the voice of those in our constituency who might not otherwise get the attention they deserve . we can show they that they matter and restore their trust and faith bit by bit . I love this job because we get to do that . it be therefore an honour to speak in today ' s debate on a topic that be critical to the future of our young people . mental health in education setting be an issue that affect the entire country and one that demand urgent action . one in eight child and young people in the UK be live with a mental health condition , often leave without the support , guidance and , critically , treatment they need to build resilience to thrive in our fast - change world . for year , government fail our young people by not provide the certainty and the early intervention need to support they mental wellness and the knowledge that when thing go wrong , there be a safety net for they . the issue have only worsen since the pandemic , which amplify the strain on the mental health of young people , and too many student — we all see this across our family — be still not receive the support they need . it be a crisis that we can not afford to ignore . too many young people be not in education , employment or training because they have be fail by a system so woefully unsupported during a time when anyone who have child or work with they know that this be a crisis and have be for a long time . funding for mental health support team represent a step forward in ensure that young people receive the help they need , particularly at an early stage . however , we can not overlook the fact that much more still need to be do to ensure that child in town such as Weston - super - Mare , Worle and beyond do not fall through the crack any more . I welcome the Government ' s progress in a short time , yet the reality be that not all school be currently able to access those service , and even when mhst be available , the support be often not enough . I know that everybody across the House be impatient for those much - need improvement . as constituency mp , we see the pain of the previous Government ' s failure on child mental health at surgery after surgery . we must ensure that the team be expand across the country , reach every school and every student who need help . I pay tribute to all the teacher , support staff , volunteer and family across Weston , Worle and the village for their crucial role in support the mental health of our young people . they be the one who see student day in , day out , and the first one to notice when something be wrong . yet many teacher and teaching staff feel underprepared to deal with the mental health challenge in their classroom . staff should not feel that they be manage such challenge on their own , and it be vital that school be support not only with resource , but with ongoing professional development to help deal with the increase prevalence of mental health challenge face by their student . we must also recognise that the mental health of teaching staff be just as important . teach staff work under incredible pressure , and the emotional and psychological toll of support student , often with their own challenge , can be overwhelming . if we expect teach staff to support the mental health of student , we must ensure that they receive appropriate support too . we can not pour from an empty cup . the evidence be clear . invest in mental health support in school not only help student emotionally and physically , but boost academic outcome and overall school wellbeing . it cascade out to family and well beyond the school gate . we can not and must not fail more child and family by not take this issue seriously . the young people of Weston - super - Mare , like those across the UK , be burst with potential . but without the right support for their mental health to help they navigate the challenge and take advantage of the opportunity of our fast - change society — that be important ; we often talk down , not up , the nature of our fast - change society — that potential will not be realise , and we must equip they with those tool . I look forward to the Government ' s continued expansion of mental health support in school , and I urge they to ensure that our teaching staff be give the tool and support they need to look after their own mental health , so they can continue to be the positive role model and carer that our student need . we trust they to look after our child every day . we owe it to they to ensure that they be look after , too . I first want to say how incredible it be that member be stand here in the Houses of Parliament discuss the mental health of our young people , and I thank my hon . friend the Member for Redditch ( Chris Bloore ) for bring forward such a critical debate . in a previous role on the health scrutiny committee for Leicester , Leicestershire and Rutland , it be clear to I that young people be wait too long for treatment , and that be have a long - term detrimental impact on they . that be in addition to the increase number of young people on too - long CAMHS waiting list . we also need to look at specialist service , such as for those suffer with disorder eating , which have double in just a couple of year . it be clear that we need to improve early intervention for our young people . we have to ensure that young people discuss mental health not only as part of the curriculum , but with their peer . we also need to ensure that young people reach out for support when they need it . just as importantly , we need to listen to they and act when they do reach out — often , young people be ignore . our child and young adult have experience a global pandemic . we can not ignore this period in their life and the impact it have have on some of they . I have two teenager , so I have see it at first hand . by increase mental health support in educational setting , we know that we can provide the foundation that our young people will need for their future . we be discuss something that can not always be see on the surface and that be often view as off - limit . I often think about a group of young people I visit in an alternative educational provision set in Moira in my constituency . from speak to they , I know how difficult and tough life have already be for they at such a young age , but I also feel empower by they — they be amazing young people . they know the support they have receive when they need it have turn their life around . for some , school can be six hour of relentless bullying , abuse or loneliness . sixty per cent of our 11 to 16 - year - old tell Girlguiding that they have receive negative comment about their appearance from other people , some of which be in a school setting . nearly half of seven to 10 - year - old say they feel alone some or all of the time — seven to 10 be so little . too often when we have conversation about mental health support , we just talk about teenager . mental health support need to be available for young people of every age to help they build healthy habit , to help they talk about what they need from we , and to set out where they can go for support . that be a salient point . before I become an MP , I work with young people in youth work . increasingly over the last few year , mental health issue that we normally see in teenager be affect young and young child . one reason be young and young child have access to social medium and not have the break we would have have as young people . my hon . friend ' s point be valid — will she tell I more about that ? absolutely . the sad fact be that we always talk about teenager , but if we can give that resilience to child as young as seven to 10 , we might be able to prevent they from become poorly when they get old . we have to start those conversation as early as possible to build resilience and confidence in our young people . put mental health support in educational setting will mean not only that we can change the culture in school for child struggle with their mental health , but that we will be able to see how young people can be support in the right place , at the right time and in the right setting . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . in my speech , I refer to West Sussex county council but neglect to mention that , as declare in my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , I be still a member of that council . I want to put that on the record — my apology . I thank the hon . member for his point of order . now that he have put it on the record , it will be record as such . we come now to the Front - Bench contribution . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I congratulate the hon . member for Redditch ( Chris Bloore ) on secure this incredibly important debate . I have spend much of the past five and a bit year in this place talk about child ' s mental health , which , frankly , I do not think we can ever have enough debate about . it be so incredibly important . we have hear many statistic from hon . member today , to which I will add . OECD evidence , base on a survey of 15 - year - old , show that UK student have the low report wellbee in western Europe . in 2024 , the Children ' s Society find that the happiness of UK child age 10 to 15 be at its low since recording begin in 2009 - 10 . as we have hear , NHS reporting show that a staggering one in five child — six in every classroom , on average — have a mental health disorder . I would argue that it be not an exaggeration to say that we be head towards a public health emergency as far as our child ' s mental health be concern . yet , as be so often the case , child and mental health be both overlook and low down on the priority list . the Darzi report highlight that child account for 24 % of the population but only 11 % of NHS expenditure . the late evidence from Rethink Mental Illness state that people who need mental health be treatment eight time more likely to have to wait over 18 month than those seek treatment for physical health . despite that , the Government ' s target to bring down NHS waiting time exclude mental health . give that more than 100 , 000 child be wait for over a year to be assess for mental health treatment , it be clear that child have be deprioritise , but as I have say repeatedly in this place , put money into service that support child be the great investment we can make as a country . when budget be tight , support for child and adolescent mental health should not be push aside . I do not think it an exaggeration to call the situation a public health emergency . in public health , prevention and early intervention be absolutely key . that be where the role of school , college and university come in . as we have hear , half of lifetime mental health condition arise before the age of 14 , so ensure that mental health support be available in school , from primary upwards , be a critical intervention . the Liberal Democrats have long call for a mental health practitioner to be place in every primary and secondary school . in the light of the impact of online harm on our child ' s mental health , we have make a strong case for the " polluter pay " principle , whereby big tech giant bear the cost burden of the measure . a trebling of the digital service tax would fund a practitioner in every primary and secondary school . I be slightly confused because , as the Minister say during the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill Committee , and as I have see in Labour party material , the Government be commit to " introduce specialist mental health support for child and young people in every school " . however , Labour have previously commit to have a counsellor in every secondary school , and indeed the hon . member for Redditch talk about have a counsellor in every school . I hope that the Minister will clarify that point of policy when he speak in a moment . my impression during the Bill Committee be that the Government intend to build out from the mental health support team that be establish by the previous Government . the Minister confirm in Committee that only 44 % of child and young people have access to such team , which will rise to 50 % in April , but he do not set out a timeline or a plan for how or when the Government will meet their commitment by ensure that every school have access to specialist support . mhst be brilliant . I have speak to staff who work in those team , both in my own constituency and in Carshalton , with my hon . friend the Member for Carshalton and Wallington ( Bobby Dean ) . however , the reality be that mhst be spread far too thinly across a number of primary and secondary school , with some school only get half a day or a day of support . that be not enough . last year , one teenager in a secondary school in my constituency take their own life . another school in my constituency have three teenager end up in A & E in the space of about two month , have attempt to take their own life . clearly , that level of mental ill health require much more acute intervention than therapy in school , but the reality be that if we start early — if we start young — with proper support , some of these truly awful incident might be prevent . the mhst model may well be the good model for support in school , but I urge the Government to be ambitious in the resourcing of those team , so that every school have the full - time equivalent of one person in the provision of this support . I know that many school be try to top up the resource out of their own fund , but with budget be stretch ever far , sadly , mental health support be one of the area that headteacher and governor tell I they be have to start cut back on . we know that the epidemic of mental ill health be drive the crisis of persistent absence in our school . as the hon . member for Weston - super - Mare ( Dan Aldridge ) say , we have hear a lot in recent day about the million or so young adult who be not in education , employment or training , often because of mental ill health . for the sake of those young people ' s future , our economy and our society , we must do well , and we must do more . I do not have time today to talk about school staff , which be mention by the hon . member for Weston - super - Mare , but we have a recruitment and retention crisis in our school , and that be because many teacher see themselves as the fourth emergency service . we have to support they with their mental health if we want to stop that flow out of our school . in high education , I hope the Government will look at introduce a duty of care , because we have hear too many tragic story of student take their own life and their loved one know nothing about their mental health problem . I pay tribute to the charity around the country that be plug the gap in mental health support . in my constituency , we have amazing charity such as the Purple Elephant Project and Off the Record work with child and their family . Anstee Bridge work across Richmond and Kingston with child who be no long engage with school . as I say , there have be a number of attempt suicide case in my constituency , and when I have be to Anstee Bridge , I have hear many more story of child attempt to take their own life . these service be critical if we want to keep those child and young people safe and help they to recover . I want to touch on two more point . childhood bereavement be a really important and often overlook issue . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) , who have long champion the need for a register of child who have be bereave . we know that childhood bereavement have a terrible impact on child ' s wellbee , potentially their mental health and their educational outcome . I hope Ministers will look seriously at introduce a register , so that we know how many of these child there be , where they be and what support they need , because that information be not available at the moment . additionally , there be no national mandate from the Department for Education for school to have a bereavement policy , nor be there any national policy to support school with this . I hope that will be address . the hon . member for Redditch mention child grow up in kinship care . the Minister will know that I have long be campaign cross - party on support for kinship carer and child grow up in kinship care . like other member , my inbox have be fill recently with email from constituent who have either adopt child or be kinship carer for child whose parent can no long look after they and have benefit from the adoption and special guardianship support fund . it be a critical fund that carer often access to provide therapeutic support for child who have experience terrible trauma , loss and instability . however , there have be no reassurance from Government about the future of that fund . I think at the moment we only have funding confirm until the end of this month . there be a huge amount of uncertainty , and hon . member from across the House have table write question but there have be no clear answer on the future of this fund . I hope that when the Minister rise at the Dispatch Box , he will put on record the plan for the adoption and special guardianship support fund as it be crucial and we can not lose it . our child can not thrive and can not achieve their full potential if they be not happy and if they be not well , so I implore the Minister to work closely with his counterpart in the Department of Health and Social Care to treat this public health challenge as an emergency . our child and young people be only young once ; they deserve the good future they can get . they can not afford to wait ; we need to prioritise this . I call the shadow Minister . I congratulate the hon . member for Redditch ( Chris Bloore ) on secure this important debate in the Chamber . I should also declare an interest : I be a consultant paediatrician and have work throughout my career with child usually at the point of severe crisis when they have be admit through A & E to hospital follow episode of deliberate self - harm , such as cut themselves or take overdose , and I have clearly see the heartbreak for family as they have struggle to understand what they can do to well help their young person get well . over recent year there have be a decline in the mental health and wellbeing of child and young people and an increase demand for mental health service . this be perhaps one of the big challenge of our era . currently around one fifth of child age eight to 16 be say to have a probable mental health disorder , up from 12 . 5 % in 2017 . this figure be even high , at 22 % , for people age 17 to 24 . the consequence of mental health issue for student range from poor academic performance and drop out of university or college to self - harm and suicide , and we must do all we can to help . I want briefly to talk about university student because university be suppose to be one of the most enjoyable and formative period of a person ' s life , but for many it be also when they leave home for the first time and when they be separate for the first time from their family and friend and their support network . datum from the Office for National Statistics show that during the covid - 19 pandemic student report high level of anxiety and low level of happiness than the general population . the number of student say they have a mental health condition have increase sevenfold in the last decade . even before the pandemic student consistently report bad mental health than the rest of the adult population , but these trend be greatly exacerbate by the impact of lockdown . will the Minister update the House on what step he be take to support young people with mental health problem as they go to university or who develop mental health problem at university ? despite the unprecedented challenge the previous Government face , not least the pandemic , we make important stride in improve mental health service , in increase the recognition and discussion of mental health problem , in increase investment and in reduce stigma . between 2018 - 19 and 2023 - 24 , spend on mental health service increase by £ 4 . 7 billion which give an additional 345 , 000 young people access to the mental health support they need , and the number of mental health nurse increase by 30 % since 2010 , yet still we see that demand be outstrip supply . prevention be well than cure and we need to understand why we have such high level of mental health problem in child . can the Minister update the House on how the Government be work to identify risk factor for poor mental health and how they will support child and family to prevent it ? the last Government try to detect mental health problem early and stop they escalate , expand mental health support team in school , commit almost £ 8 million of funding for 24 early support hub in ' 24 / 25 . these offer early open access mental health intervention without the need for a referral by a doctor or school . the drop - in centre offer vital advice to young people go through the trauma of stress and anxiety , give they a space to go to when their problem first emerge . can the Minister update we on what the Government be do in term of expand the availability of these centre ? the Online Safety Act 2023 make very good progress in protect child from harmful online content but there be much more to do on the topic of screen time , as have be mention by hon . member this afternoon . do the Minister agree that the mount evidence we be hear especially from health professional about the impact of smartphone in particular on child ' s mental health be very concerning ? if so , will he support the conservative amendment to the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill to ban smartphone use in school ? however , there have be some concern that in the desire to support and enable individual to have positive mental wellbeing , there be a danger that the pendulum have swing a little far and the boundary between distress and disorder have become blur . that mean that there be a risk that those who be most unwell may miss out on the treatment they deserve and need because of the volume of referral , as well as a risk of burden other with unhelpful label and prescription that could hold they back , without address the root cause of their very real need . some 84 % of GPs be now say to believe that society ' s approach to mental health have lead to medicalise the normal up and down of life . the term " wellbee " , " mental health " and " mental illness " be often use interchangeably , so what step be the Minister take to distinguish between those term in educational context , and to deliver public service to ensure that we can get the good outcome for those affect , so people get the treatment they clinically require ? I pay tribute to the work that many charity do to support our young people with mental health problem . will the Minister talk to the Chancellor about fund for those service ? Dr Sarah Hughes , the chief executive of Mind , say that " the implication of the NIC rise be eye - watering , at a time when we be try to direct every penny towards deliver the good support . " such charity do immense work to create a mentally healthy society , put everything they have into it , and the Government should recognise that huge investment , not destabilise it by introduce mount cost that charity simply can not subsidise . it be important to recognise the connection between physical and mental health , and that those with long - term physical condition be considerably more likely to have poor mental health . what be the Government do to support child who have chronic illness to help improve their mental health ? in 2023 , the now Education Secretary say that Labour want a train mental health counsellor available in every secondary school . what step have the Government take towards achieve that aim ? more specifically , why have they focus on secondary school ? in April 2024 , Dr Patrick Roach , the general secretary of NASUWT , say : " we also need to see improved support for pupil in primary school to secure wraparound care for pupil at all stage of their education . " what be the Government do to support child in primary school with their mental health ? ahead of the last general election , the Labour party promise to establish Young Futures hub , recruit 8 , 500 mental health staff and provide mental health support in school . why have so little progress be make on deliver those promise ? when the Minister stand on a manifesto to establish the Young Futures hub , which be say to have a cost of £ 95 million , and to provide mental health support in all school , at a cost of £ 175 million , the Government say that they would fund that through revenue raise from apply vat and business rate to private school . will the Minister confirm whether the revenue obtain from apply the vat to private school look like it will be sufficient to expand the mental health support as describe ? if not , how do the Government intend to fund the measure they say they would implement ? in a speech to the Confederation of School Trusts on 7 November last year , the Education Secretary claim that the Government would give " every single child the very good life chance " in " a new era of child - centre government . " how do she justify the impact on the wellbeing of those child who be force to move school due to the imposition of vat on the private sector ? numerous think - tank and mental health charity have note that be force to move school at a non - standard time can have a significant and long - last impact on child ' s friendship , support network and emotional development . what support be the Minister offer to those child ? mental health issue among our young people be one of the define issue of our time . as with so many other policy area , the Government have promise a panacea , but so far they have deliver a sticking plaster . I call the Minister . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Redditch ( Chris Bloore ) for secure a debate on such an important subject , which rightly invite considerable cross - party support . we know that one third of adult mental ill health originate before age 14 , and six in 10 of those that suffer from mental ill health have their first onset by age 25 , mean that childhood and early adulthood be a critical period for early intervention and prevention . that be why this Government have set a bold new ambition to raise the healthy generation of child in our history , which of course include their mental health and wellbeing . we have see increase in mental health issue in child . nhs survey suggest that around 20 % of 8 to 16 - year - old have a probable mental health disorder in 2023 , up from 13 % in 2017 . the wellbeing and life satisfaction of child and young people also show cause for concern . long - term reduction in the wellbeing of child and young people be a common trend across country , and we have to acknowledge that England and the UK report among the low level of average life satisfaction among participate country . there be no one simple reason for that , and rise mental health challenge be an international phenomenon . the ongoing impact of covid - 19 , bring about by school closure and reduce opportunity for social and emotional development , be a factor , as be change in health behaviour , such as low physical activity , increase eat and sleep problem and increase screen time and social medium use — point make by a number of member this afternoon . there be also a wide range of contribute societal factor and ongoing national and global issue , such as the economic outlook , international conflict and climate change . the relative influence of those different driver be complex , and take together they show the scale of the challenge that we face . among child and young people who suffer the most acute mental health challenge be look - after child and young people , all of whom will have experience some kind of adverse childhood experience or trauma result in their be take into the care system . my Committee hear evidence a couple of week ago from child and young people who talk about the lack of adequate assessment of their mental health when they be take into care and when they move placement . they call for a strengthening of the regulation around that so that their mental health and wellbeing be properly take into account . I have table an amendment to the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , which we will discuss early next week . will the Minister give a commitment to look at that and see whether we can make the support well for child who be look after ? I know that my hon . friend be a real champion of look - after child . we will certainly look at those proposal and at all the work the Education Committee do to support the most vulnerable child in society . prevention be vital , and school and college can naturally play a preventive role in what they do from day to day . Attainment be a vital factor in long - term mental health , as it help young people to access the thing they want to do in life , in further study and in job . the good school and college set high standard and expectation , and support child to overcome barrier to their learning , include those with special educational need and disability . we also understand that a child ' s experience of school help they to both achieve and thrive . education setting also support the social and emotional development of their pupil through what be teach in lesson , extracurricular activity and pastoral support . pupil who be thrive , with positive subjective wellbeing and a strong sense of belong , accomplishment , autonomy and good health , achieve well educational outcome and be more likely to attend school . they be well equip to face issue in their life , which be important . not every child face mental health issue will need clinical intervention ; the support that they get from their friend , family and school or college staff can be what they need . like my hon . friend the Member for Weston - super - Mare ( Dan Aldridge ) , I acknowledge and recognise the many thousand of school leader , teacher and staff who be commit to promote and support the mental health and wellbeing of their pupil every day through the thing that they do to make school a safe , supportive and inclusive place for child , by support their specific need and by work with parent , family and other community service . we know that as many as nine in 10 school have a designate lead for student ' mental health and that more than three quarter of they have benefit from DFE - fund training , help leader to embed effective whole - school or whole - college approach to mental health and wellbeing . nevertheless , school and college themselves need support with what to do and can not deal with every issue that pupil have . that be why , as a Government , we have commit to provide access to specialist mental health professional in every school , so that every young person have access to early support to address problem before they escalate . that commitment will be deliver through the expansion of NHS - fund mental health support team , which will work in school and college to offer early support through evidence - base one - to - one and group intervention . they will liaise with specialist service and support lead to develop their holistic approach to mental health and wellbeing . those function , supervise by a clinical professional , be what make mental health support team such a valuable resource . I have see that important work at first hand on visit to education setting in Brighton , Manchester and Rugby . by April 2025 , we expect those team to cover over 50 % of child and young people in school and college , and plan for further expansion be be draw up with the NHS to achieve 100 % coverage as soon as be practically possible . the Minister have refer to access to specialist mental health support . for the benefit of the House , could he clarify what level of resource he expect that to be — will it be half a day a week , a day a week , or full - time equivalent ? the previous commitment have be a counsellor in every school . I can assure the hon . member that there will be access to mental health professional in every school . we be work on the detail of that as we speak , and will announce more in due course . will the Minister give way ? I will make some progress , if I may . the pace of the roll - out of mental health support team will be determine by local need . it represent a substantial investment in workforce growth and training through this Parliament . further announcement will be make in the spring . will the Minister give way ? I be go to carry on . we recognise that our pledge that every school will have access to specialist mental health professional be not the whole answer . school be face their own pressure , and rely on health professional for diagnosis and treatment of their pupil ' mental health need . we all know from our own postbag and inboxe , as well as from the contribution make by my hon . friend the Member for Redditch , that the waiting list for those refer for specialist support be too high . the Department of Health and Social Care be work to bring wait time down and intervene early . in addition , the Government will put in place the new Young Futures hub , include access to mental health support worker , and recruit 8 , 500 new mental health staff to treat child and adult . as well as target mental health support , we must tackle the wide driver affect child and young people ' s mental health . for instance , my Department ' s comprehensive child poverty strategy will be central to unlock opportunity and give every child the good start in life . in addition , we recognise the importance of monitoring and understand trend in the wellbeing of child and young people , and be already closely monitor national datum and research on child and young people ' s mental health and wellbeing , and encourage school to measure pupil ' wellbee . since become the Minister for early education , I have see and hear about incredible work go on in school and college across the country , and have listen to the issue education staff continue to have . it bring I real joy to engage directly with child and young people across the country . my Department will continue to support education staff and provide a range of guidance and practical resource to help school embe effective whole - school or whole - college approach to mental health and wellbeing , such as a resource hub for mental health lead and a toolkit to help choose evidence - base early support for pupil . I recognise that there be interest across the House in a number of different form of support , such as counselling provision , as we have hear this afternoon . we believe that school be well place to choose what provision good meet the need of their pupil , but we will ensure that resource be in place to help school do this well . do the Minister agree that what have be announce today fall short ? access to service that be available in a local area — presumably by appointment , and in a different setting — do not constitute the same availability of support as have properly qualified counsellor in school . I can assure the hon . member that I have not announce anything today . as I mention in response to the intervention from the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) , we be work through the detail , but the commitment be to access to dedicated mental health support in every school . it be a real pleasure to visit the hon . member ' s constituency and see that work at first hand . a number of member be interested in the role of council in this important issue . local government ' s public health responsibility be an essential element of prevent ill health , promote healthy life and address health inequality . the Department of Health and Social Care will provide more than £ 4 billion of public health funding in 2025 - 26 , include over £ 3 . 8 billion through the public health grant to local authority — an average cash increase of 5 . 4 % , or a 3 . 0 % real - term increase in local authority public health grant funding compare with the last financial year . that represent a significant turning point for local public health service , mark the big real - term increase after nearly a decade of reduce funding . I thank all member from all part of the House for their contribution this afternoon . my hon . friend the Member for Redditch speak with real insight and passion about the support that child and young people need , and about the need for parity between physical and mental health , and he make a number of inform contribution base on evidence and research . I also pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Blaydon and Consett ( Liz Twist ) , who for some time have speak in this place on behalf of family who have lose love one due to suicide . I pay tribute to her work alongside the hugely dedicated campaigner that be the 3 Dads walk . I have have the privilege of meet those individual , and they be inspire in the work that they do . we hear from the Chair of the Select Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , who make a number of point from her experience on the Select Committee and from visit to school in her area . I look forward to her continued constructive engagement as we progress our ambition on mental health in this place . a number of member make contribution on support for SEN child . every child , regardless of their individual need , deserve the opportunity to achieve , thrive and succeed . this Government be aware of the scale of the challenge in the current system , and we have make clear our commitment to address they . in conclusion , I assure my hon . friend the Member for Redditch and all member that this government prioritise the health and happiness of child and their wellbeing . we recognise the need for further support in school , so that all child can achieve and thrive , include in tackle the generational challenge of school absence and bolster young people ' s wellbee and sense of belong . we value the many contribution from across the House in the debate today , and I again thank my hon . friend for secure it . the last few minute go to Chris Bloore to wind up . first , let I thank the Minister for his comprehensive response , but also for how his Department have helpfully answer the many question that my office have put through to he . I also thank he for his candidness at the Dispatch Box , and I look forward to hear a lot of the detail follow the question from member from all part of the House . I will make reference in a quick speed - date way to many of the comment that member have make . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) for her expertise and comment , particularly on SEND provision . I thank the hon . member for Brighton Pavilion ( Si â n Berry ) for raise awareness of the success that she and campaigner have have in her constituency . as a fellow former county councillor , I , like the hon . member for Horsham ( John Milne ) , understand the challenge that county council face , particularly in rural area , and I understand his frustration . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Ashford ( Sojan Joseph ) for his focus on early intervention , and I support his viewpoint that cross - Government work be vital to make progress on this issue . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Stafford ( Leigh Ingham ) for her intervention . I be sad to hear about student be tell to unroll from school because provision be not available . that be simply not acceptable . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Weston - super - Mare ( Dan Aldridge ) for his excellent and heartfelt comment about represent his resident , and also for his timely comment about the work of teacher in our school . I thank the liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) . she have a long history on this subject , and I have read many of her contribution over the past two week . I know that she be fully commit to this cause . I thank the conservative spokesperson , the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) for her thoughtful comment and for her expertise in the area in which she work prior to come to this place . finally , we have be talk in this debate about the life chance of our child . we have make so much progress in bring discussion about mental health to the fore , and we know the difference that early intervention can make . it be okay not to be okay , and we have make progress with people feel that they can say that , but it will not be okay if we do not make progress to support child in the long run by the time this Parliament be over . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider mental health support in educational setting . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I seek your guidance on what mechanism be open to member under the Standing Orders of this place to obtain accurate information from Government Ministers . early today , during the debate on the future of farming , the shadow Environment Secretary ask the farming Minister for the exact cap associate with the sustainable farming incentive , which the Minister claim have now be reach . astonishingly , the Minister be unable to give that information to the House , despite farming be in his brief . how can member of this place ensure that Ministers provide accurate information to the House of Commons ? if the Minister be unable to do so when request , how can I request that he come back to the House to update member when the exact information be know ? the hon . Member will know that the content of statement that minister make be not the responsibility of the Chair , but he have put his comment on the record . of course , he can go to the Table Office , which will give he further advice on how he can put in probe question for further clarity . no doubt those on the Treasury Benches have hear he and will relay that information . I assume that the hon . Member alert the Minister that he would raise this point of order . if not , he will no doubt do so very swiftly . contribution of Muslims to Communities Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) the subject of this debate be the contribution of Muslims to community , so I look forward to hear it . Ramadan 2025 — or 1446 ah , as many Muslims know it — be the first I be observe since be elect to this place as the Member of Parliament for Glasgow South West . as the only ethnic - minority and Muslim MP represent a Scottish Westminster constituency , I feel a sense of unique responsibility to espouse the positive role that Muslims play in our country , which should , but often do not , feel natural and easy to celebrate vocally . accord to the 2022 census , over 76 , 000 Muslims live in Scotland , and I be proud that 13 , 000 of they — almost one in six — live in my constituency of Glasgow South West . it be a vibrant and diverse community of people of all colour and ethnic background who find a way to be multicultural , but who still tend to coalesce seamlessly around our scottish and british identity . perhaps we have much to teach the rest of Britain , and I would welcome a visit from the Minister or one of his team whenever they have time . across the UK , there be 4 million Muslims , represent 6 % of the total population . their contribution be vast , particularly in the month of Ramadan , when many will redouble and amplify their effort in their community and charity work . british Muslims donate £ 1 . 79 billion a year to charitable cause — four time more than the national average — and volunteer time worth £ 622 million a year . in that regard , I place on record my thank to the many islamic charity that be active in my constituency , include Islamic Relief , which diligently work not only on international cause , but increasingly on local cause . business own by Muslims contribute £ 25 billion a year to the british economy , notwithstanding the fact that the UK be a world leader in islamic finance , hold 85 % of the european islamic finance banking sector . as with every community , there be challenge around inequality , but vast stride have be make in education and in the participation of muslim woman in society . there have be a notable increase in educational attainment , with 32 . 3 % of Muslims hold degree - level qualification in 2021 , compare with only 24 % in 2011 . that be largely drive by muslim woman come into high education — something that we can wholeheartedly welcome . the story of Muslims be intricately weave into our society and be worthy of celebration . it be apparent in every walk of life , but perhaps most prominently in our NHS , where I work as a full - time surgeon prior to my election to this place . that footprint be most palpable during the covid pandemic , when many serve on the frontline despite know that they be at a disproportionately high risk of harm . many make the ultimate sacrifice , with muslim doctor Alfa Sa ' adu , Amged el - Hawrani , Adil El Tayar and Habib Zaidi — who have ancestry in Africa , Pakistan and the middle east — die of covid in the course of their clinical duty . unlike this Ramadan , when mosque at night be resplendent with light and beautiful recitation of the Quran , in 2020 they go dark and fall silent , with many take the decision to close their door to worshipper to stop the virus and protect everyone in their community long before the Government tell they to do so . many , such as the Glasgow central mosque , which be a stone ' s throw from my constituency boundary , transform into testing and vaccination hub , undoubtedly save thousand of life . that should not be a surprise , because despite recent rhetoric , it be important to place on record that the footprint of Muslims on the British Isles , and in serve british interest , have be long , endure and , at time , existential for our country . I be very grateful to my hon . friend , who be my office neighbour , for allow I to move we down from Scotland to Staffordshire , in the heart of the country . I congratulate he on secure this debate . it be doubly important for I , as I be sure it be for all hon . member , that you be in the Chair for this important debate , Madam Deputy Speaker . the House be strengthen by both his presence and yours . Newcastle - under - Lyme be home to many faith community that do much good in bring our community together . since September 2023 , we be home to the Newcastle - under - Lyme Islamic Centre at the masjid on Pilkington Avenue in the Westlands . will my hon . friend join I in thank those in the muslim community in Newcastle - under - Lyme for all they do to bring our people together ? I thank my hon . friend for that intervention , and I wholeheartedly thank those in the muslim community of Newcastle - under - Lyme for all their contribution — one day I may even get an invitation from my hon . friend to go there . at least 2 . 5 million muslim soldier and labourer be report to have fight with the ally force in the first world war and 5 . 5 million in the second world war . nearly 1 . 5 million Muslims be kill in action , not include the many Muslims serve in other role during the war . among they be my grandfather , Imam Mohamed , who be intern by the Japanese while serve as a constable in the Royal Hong Kong police force during the second world war . in more recent time , that sense of service have be manifest in the election of muslim mps to this place . it would be remiss of I , Madam Deputy Speaker , not to mention your achievement as the first ever female Muslim Minister serve in a Government and , of course , as the first ever Muslim Deputy Speaker . despite the contribution I have describe , with that share history and those share value , it be unfortunately a tumultuous time for many british Muslims . over 6 , 000 anti - muslim hate incident have be report in the last year . I see a sense of this increase in my own social medium timeline , with an increase diatribe of hatred direct at I — not so much because of the colour of my skin any more , as it be when I be young , but because of my religion . despite my be bear here and serve in the NHS here , many question my place in Parliament because they do not deem enough generation of my family to have live here for I to be british enough to serve in this place . I thank my hon . friend for secure this debate . like he , I have a very diverse community , as he know , because he be once a resident there . my seat in east London have long have , as east London have historically have , a reputation for community work together and support one another . my hon . friend have talk about the age of politic that we live in — a time of populism . siren populist voice would like we to think that community engagement have go . do he agree that the work of the diverse community from different part of the world , and particularly of those in the muslim community , with how they engage themselves in business , charity and social life , show that up to be the lie that it be ? I wholeheartedly agree , and I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . in fact , the thrust of the conclusion of my speech will be how important social cohesion be . we must keep that at the forefront of our mind . the rhetoric we see online have the ability , surreptitiously , to desensitise all of we , and that desensitisation be find its way to place such at the dinner table , where it be become an increasingly acceptable form of conversation to indulge in anti - muslim rhetoric . as it do so at those dinner table , at muslim dinner table across the country people be question their place in this society . this trend should worry we all , because it undermine the fabric of our society , our cohesion and our identity as a country . we know from other form of hatred that what start with antisemitism or anti - muslim hatred rarely stop there . I commend my hon . friend for his contribution to this House , and I echo the comment about how great it be that we have you in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker , for this important debate . my hon . friend make the point about fight the tide of hatred , which I have see at first hand . in a previous life before I enter this place , I be very proud to work for our first ever Muslim - heritage elect Mayor of London , Sadiq Khan . it be a testament to he that he have be fight against this hatred and show that London can stand as a beacon of hope against it . it be really important that we be here today to celebrate the achievement of muslim resident around our country , and there be many amazing organisation in my constituency of Stratford and Bow , such as the Minhaj Welfare Foundation , Soul Sisters and the British Bangla Welfare Trust . would my hon . friend join I in thank they for their contribution to Stratford and Bow , and in wish they a peaceful and bless Ramadan ? I thank my hon . friend , a well - respect politician who represent all her constituent well , and I will definitely join she in congratulate those organisation , particularly the Minhaj Welfare Foundation , which also operate in my constituency . as I be say , this trend should worry we all , because of its undermine nature . we know that that kind of hatred , which begin as anti - muslim rhetoric , do not stop with Muslims . it have a common denominator to divide and to fragment the bond that have be forge over year , and indeed be a lightning rod to violence and civil disorder . this come Saturday be a reminder of where that hatred lead if leave unchecked . it will be the sixth anniversary of the Christchurch mosque shooting in New Zealand . on 15 March 2019 , 51 innocent life be tragically take in that act of hatred — the young be just three year old . that sicken attack on those attend Friday prayer be a dark day . but in that darkness come the light of the response by the now former New Zealand Labour Prime Minister , Jacinda Ardern . she envelop the muslim community in empathy , inclusiveness and acceptance in a way that Muslims live in the west have rarely experience , and in a way that will never be forget . I remember , the follow day , come out of the operate theatre and be drive to tear by her compassion . she validate my existence as a Muslim in the west in a way that no one in this country could have manage at the time , and for that , Muslims far and wide will hold she in a special place in their heart . but we must not mistake compassion for weakness . in compassion there be often strength , and perhaps an even clear vision of the future and a bravery to confront difficult issue and have the difficult conversation across community , but most importantly within . we see that sense of compassion and bravery in our country last summer in our Prime Minister , who act so decisively during the riot to protect mosque , to protect those at risk of violent attack , and to mobilise the state quickly and effectively against anarchy . he attend the big iftar at Westminster Hall — the first time it have ever be hold there — and tonight he be host an iftar at Downing Street too . I commend my hon . friend for secure this debate ; it be fantastic . it would be remiss of I , come from a small town in the west country , not to talk about the muslim population in my town . in the context of what happen in the summer , I be really proud to be able to stand with the muslim community in Weston - super - Mare , and also to see how the civic pride and civic duty of that community be not diminish by the hostility that they face . I really want to pay tribute to the Ahmed family , and Aishah in particular , a 21 - year - old . she have have Aishah ' s Food Charity for year , feed the people of Weston - super - mare and supplement the assistance that be provide in the context of the issue that we have with destitution . the family be amazing , and a huge asset to the town . I thank my hon . friend for his warm word . I join he in commend the Ahmed family for all that they be do to cement the bond of community cohesion in his constituency . the Prime Minister ' s action be a clear indication that this Labour Government , under this Prime Minister , value and share bread with all community and be a friend of the muslim community . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) for his tireless effort over the last decade in tackle anti - muslim hatred ; he also be a true friend of Muslims across this country . when hatred take root in our society it diminish we all . that be why I be glad that the Deputy Prime Minister be also take action . perhaps the Minister might be kind enough to outline some of the detail of the new group set up by his Department to tackle anti - muslim hatred in this country once and for all , lead by Dominic Grieve KC , which be welcome . the Minister will know that this not just an issue for Muslims ; it speak to the wide issue of social cohesion . the Khan review of social cohesion in March 2024 argue that social cohesion be not just about protect the democratic norm of our country ; it have wide - reach benefit for society as a whole , from help achieve sustainable economic growth to reduce the threat of terrorism and hate crime , increase societal resilience to shock such as pandemic , improve public health , increase volunteering and strengthen community , social cohesion and a wide range of adjacent policy area — area that I know this Government take seriously . I believe recent event around the world demonstrate that we be at an inflection point in our country . we can roll over to the easy answer to the scapegoate a community , or conversely avoid , as have be do in the past , the difficult conversation that sometimes need to be have within community . neither of those attitude serve any of we well . we should call out hatred when we see it online , at dinner table , in change room , in public space . but in a pluralistic british society , we should also be able to issue challenge to community when we see failing . I be proud to be an MP on the Labour Benches , because I believe it be only this government who can achieve that . many community with their own separate tradition , but still able to coalesce naturally into one british identity . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow South West ( Dr Ahmed ) for secure this debate during such an important time for muslim community . what a pleasure it be to follow a speech that be thoughtful and reflective , but also challenge to we all in this place and in particular to we as a Govt . I look forward to feed back on some of the point he raise . and I will , of course , take he up on his invitation to visit — I never miss a chance to go to Glasgow . this debate be perfectly time . it be only right that we honour and celebrate the contribution of british muslim community during the month of Ramadan , a time of reflection , devotion and community . we have have a little tour in this debate : we start in Glasgow , but we have also be to Newcastle - under - Lyme , Weston - super - Mare and the east of London , and now I be add a little bit of Nottingham . for Muslims across the UK and around the world , Ramadan will be a sacred period of fasting , prayer and charity . it be also a time that bring people together , strengthen bond between neighbour , colleague and friend of all faith and belief , and of none . here in the UK , we see the vibrancy of Ramadan reflect in our public life : in this debate today , the Ramadan light on Oxford Street , the historic Iftar recently host at Windsor Castle , and the many gathering take place across the country . they show how deeply embed and richly value these tradition be within our national culture . I think of my own in Nottingham . I think of the Al - Khazra mosque and how it throw its door open during Ramadan because it be a good time for people be curious , perhaps about what they be read and see , to come and understand Islam . of course , food be always a great draw there , because it be fantastic . I also think of the work that Mufti Ahmed Peerbhai do to get people in , include myself , to learn about Islam and to talk and to educate , which be very , very important work . minister across the Government be honour to be join Iftars throughout this month , celebrate the richness of our community and the value of compassion and generosity that Ramadan embody , and , as my hon . friend mention , the Prime Minister be host an Iftar at Downing Street tonight . it be also particularly fitting to have this debate during Muslim Heritage Month . this be a great moment to reflect on the immense contribution Muslims have make to Britain , past and present . Islam and Muslims have be part of Britain for century , from the early 1700 and the small community of muslim sailor and trader from Assam , Bengal , Gujarat and Yemen . outside the port community of east London — we have hear from colleague from east London — South Shields and Liverpool and the community in Woking , Surrey , muslim population remain small . indeed , it be surprising to hear that the first mosque in London do not open until 1895 . as my hon . Friend note in his own powerful personal story , it be only after the second world war , when many former soldier answer the call to help rebuild the nation , that our muslim population grow substantially . from the soldier who fight alongside british force in both world war to the innovator shape our future today , the legacy of british Muslims be one of resilience , dedication and excellence . I be furious that my hon . friend have beat I to the opportunity to embarrass you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be sure you do not want we to highlight your own personal achievement , but they be very important . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] you be , of course , the first female Muslim Minister to stand at this very Dispatch Box , and you be now the first muslim person to sit in that Chair as Deputy Speaker . I think of the people who watch these debate and the importance they will place on that . certainly , we think of the young girl and boy who will see you and see your example , and know that if you can do it , perhaps they can do it , too . to those who be watch I say , " you can , you must and you should . there be lot of very good example in Parliament of people who look and sound like you who have do so much for our country and our democracy . " we want to recognise that history . the Government be commit to do so , which be why we support the creation of a muslim war memorial . it will stand as a lasting tribute to the courage and sacrifice of Muslims who serve Britain in time of conflict , ensure that their contribution — too often forget — be finally give the recognition they deserve . we intend for the memorial to include an educational element to ensure that people of all background and age be able to learn about and understand the sacrifice make by Muslims in the british armed force during the two world war and beyond . turn to the theme of the debate , my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow South West clearly set out the contribution that Muslims make to the UK , but I will add a little bit myself , too . whether in business , the art , science or healthcare , british Muslims be at the forefront of progress and innovation . their contribution to the economy be substantial , with Muslim - lead business generate billion of pound and create thousand of job . a recent report by the Equi think - tank estimate that british Muslims generate £ 70 billion a year for the UK economy through income , business and charitable giving . I think of Himmah , a charity in Nottingham that be recently award the King ' s Award , with its food bank and what it do for my community to ensure that people where we live do not go hungry . I be look forward — if that be the right word — to run the London marathon next month to raise fund for Himmah . I really , really wish I have start training . I currently don ' t own a pair of trainer , which I believe be an impediment to the exercise . that same Equi report note the huge contribution that Muslims make to our public service , include education , social care and emergency response , fill more than 46 , 000 role across our NHS , deliver essential care to our sick and elderly . of course , my hon . friend be a shine example of that — a surgeon who have make such a difference to so many people at the most challenging moment . we be very lucky to have have he serve in our NHS , and we be very lucky to have he serve in our legislature , too . I wish the Minister all the good for run the London marathon — my father do it five time in the 1980 , so I be happy to get some tip for he after the debate . as he talk about the contribution make by the muslim community up and down our country , would he join I in express a note of disappointment that there be not a single member from any opposition party on their bench this afternoon ? we be mean to be one United Kingdom , speak for all community , and it be a real disappointment that nobody else be present to listen . I be grateful to my hon . friend for the kind offer of support . I have to say , I be not generally one for police colleague ' diary , but I hope that during this period , colleague from all political party and none be able to use their platform positively to promote the important work of Britain ' s muslim community and to fight the rise of Islamophobia , which I will turn to shortly . before I do , I want to reflect on two thing that my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow South West mention . first , London be the west ' s islamic finance capital , with UK - base islamic bank control asset worth nearly £ 6 billion , which be 85 % of the total asset in Europe — what a great success story that be for our country . secondly , I want to mention the practice of Zakat and the extraordinary charitable giving of british Muslims , who donate million every year to support those in need , both at home and abroad . as my hon . friend have say , british Muslims give four time more to charity than the average UK adult , donate more than £ 700 a year . during Ramadan alone , we can expect contribution to exceed £ 100 million — what a lifeline that be for those who receive that funding . civil society also benefit immensely from the leadership and activism of muslim community ; I think of the muslim councillor on my local authority , as well as colleague in this place . it go much deep , too , with remarkable contribution to volunteerism and social welfare . whether it be support food bank , as I mention , support homeless shelter , mentor young people or engage in community outreach , their service embody the value of generosity and civic duty that strengthen our society and foster social cohesion , in a nice intersection between faith and our national value — I think we would like to think that those be british value , too . none the less , as my hon . friend have say , we know that , despite invaluable contribution , muslim community continue to face discrimination and prejudice within our society . Anti - muslim hatred remain a real and persistent issue , affect the life of many . my hon . friend talk about online hatred , and also about creep normalisation , and we should stand against that , and we , as a Government , most certainly do so . it be impossible not to go back , certainly with the sixth anniversary of the horrific Christchurch terror attack be on Saturday . that be a stark reminder of how online hatred can fuel real world violence . I remember be at Al - Khazra mosque in the day follow the attack , talk to muslim constituent and , indeed , to those who , like I , come in solidarity . they tell I about their fear and how they feel when face with the reality that that could have be they at Friday prayer . we also talk about the thing that we have to do to stand against such terror and to make sure that they be safe in our city . we have recently establish a new work group to define and tackle anti - muslim hatred and Islamophobia . I hope that this initiative reflect our unwavering commitment to ensure that all community in the UK can live free from discrimination and fear . my hon . Friend ask for a little more detail on this . as he say , the group be be chair by Dominic Grieve KC , once of this place , which be really positive . the group will advise Government on how good to understand , quantify and define prejudice , discrimination and hate crime target at Muslims . the context behind the establishment of this group be the fact that hate crime be at a record high in England and Wales , which be why we think that this be an issue that require urgent attention . the work of the group will be measure in month rather than year . we want its member to come back to we as swiftly as possible to help shape our government ' s response to make sure that we be truly stand up against the rise of this hatred . I be sorry to interrupt the Minister again . he talk about the work of the group take month , which be the correct approach as we want to make sure that this be do properly . will he explain how member of this House can feed into the process , so that we can be sure that the experience that our constituent raise with we be also raise with the group ? that be an excellent question . I will make sure that colleague , through the Minister for Faith , Lord Khan , be able to have that opportunity . we be very good conduit of information and insight , because we see this every day in our constituency , and , by definition , we cover the entire community . that be an excellent idea , which I shall make sure come to fruition . in conclusion , Ramadan remind we of our share value : kindness , unity and a commitment to justice . during this important time for british muslim community , the Government reaffirm their dedication to build a society where everyone , regardless of background or belief , be value and respect . I hope that all those observe this debate have see the strength of feeling across the House . I say to they , Ramadan Mubarak . may this month bring they peace , strength and countless blessing . question put and agree to . House adjourn .