I have recently be contact by constituent about the imminent closure of the Hall , a small community space in East Village , Stratford — one of very few in the area . as we know , such space be absolutely invaluable . ours host load of event , include meeting of the Brownies and the Girl Guides . I be make representation to get Living , the developer responsible for that decision . it have , frankly , be responsible for a whole bunch of questionable decision over recent year , include during the clad scandal and on exorbitant service change . can we have a debate in Government time on how the action of developer have undermine the olympic legacy and fail local resident ? we have see many injustice debate in this House . just today , we have see the injustice of the WASPI woman . in recent week , we have speak about the infected blood scandal and , more recently , the Post Office scandal . tonight , we be go to debate another scandal : the mineworker ' pension scheme scandal . some 25 % of the United Kingdom be on top of old coalmine , so I have hope that 25 % of this Chamber would be full tonight , but it be not . maybe there be a few reason for that . the issue have be debate a lot in this place , both before and since I come into Parliament , so maybe certain mp be get a bit feed up of say the same old thing , but we will keep try . I start in the pit in the mid - 1980s . I go to work at Sutton colliery , in north Nottinghamshire , with my dad Paul Anderson . he be a rope fitter , and I go to work with he underground . I have a good time work with my dad and my friend at Sutton colliery , which be a family pit . it be a small coalmine with small coal seam and difficult condition . it be a family pit where brother work with their brother , dad and grandad . it be a proper community , but like all coalmine , there be tragedy underground . at Sutton colliery in 1957 , there be a methane explosion and , sadly , five man lose their life . I know some of the friend , family and descendant of the people who die . I then go on to Cresswell colliery , in north Derbyshire , to do my coalface training . it be another family pit where , again , man work with their son , and brother work with their brother , and it too be tinge with tragedy . in 1950 , there be a fire at Cresswell colliery and , sadly , 83 man and boy lose their life . the mine rescuer have to seal the pit off underground to save the colliery , so that it could produce coal again . they seal off some of the old working and leave the man inbye , because there be no chance of save they , but when they take the stop down just a few month later , the man be on the other side . some of they have scratch their name into the wall . it be terrible , and this sort of thing be hard to explain to people who have not work down a coalmine . it be a very tight - knit community , and people work in difficult condition . I have just over 10 year of work in awful condition , but my grandad Charlie have 45 year down the coalmine and finish up at Norton Hill colliery . it would have be 50 year , but he take a break between 1940 and 1945 , and go to fight Hitler . then he come back and go straight back down the pit the follow week . when he finish in the pit in 1979 , he get a tankard , a certificate , 500 quid and a meagre pension — imagine that . as miner , we know about the risk underground when we go down the pit every day . since mining start in this country in the 1600 , over 160 , 000 man , woman and child have die in the coalmine , so we know the risk . we know there be always a chance that something might happen , but these be the risk we take . the miner take these risk for simple reason : to earn a wage , put food on the table and make sure their kid be well dressed . in 1994 , when I be still work in the pit , they be privatised . in my area , it be RJ Budge Mining that take over the pit . at that time , a big bone of contention be what be go to happen with the MPS , or the mineworker ' pension scheme . it be probably one of the rich pension scheme in the world at that time , and be worth hundred of million , if not billion , in today ' s money . it be always accept that there would be a 70 : 30 split in favour of the miner . when the then Government sit around the table with the trustee to make an offer to guarantee the mineworker ' pension scheme , we automatically surmise that there would be a 70 : 30 split , which would have be fair . but at the last minute , it end up be — and depend on who you talk to , whether it be the trustee at the time or the mining organisation involve in campaigning , nobody can get to the bottom of it — a " take it or leave it " 50 : 50 deal . the Government at the time never undertake a proper financial risk assessment or have actuarial advice on the split . we can never get to the bottom of that — it be a simple " take it or leave it . " when I be work at the pit with my friend , we never really have a say in this . I can not remember any man I work with underground be happy with the 50 : 50 split , because we know how rich the pension fund be . thirty year on from 1994 , successive Labour and conservative Governments have not pay a single penny into the pension scheme , which be a cash cow . they have take £ 4 . 8 billion out of the scheme . some mining group say the sum be near to £ 10 billion , but I will take the figure I have here . in just the last three year , the Government have take more than £ 400 million out of the surplus , which be a lot of money . this be miner ' money . in effect , the Treasury ' s guarantee be an insurance scheme . it guarantee to make up the shortfall and pay the bonus , and so on , if there be not a surplus , but I can not think of any insurance scheme anywhere in this country , or the world , that have never have to pay out . in 30 year , not a penny have come from the Treasury or the taxpayer to top up the mineworker ' pension scheme . I think that be a bit of a scandal , and so do my mining community .