Oral Answers to Questions Cabinet Office the Minister for the Cabinet Office be ask — plan for Change what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to implement the Government ' s plan for change . what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to implement the Government ' s plan for change . since we launch the plan for change last month , we have publish the elective reform plan to get NHS waiting list down and the AI opportunity plan so that the UK be a great home for AI investment and the Government make the most of this technology . the aim of the plan for change be to increase living standard , cut NHS waiting list , boost energy security , give child the good start in life , make our street safe , and build the house that the country need for the future . just today , we have announce measure to stop repeat judicial review attempt from hold up major investment project that be in the national interest . I thank my right hon . friend for his answer . do he agree that the Government ' s plan for change provide my constituent in Wolverhampton West with clear , measurable metric against which they can hold the Government to account ? this will help to restore faith in politic and politician , and enable my constituent to see short hospital waiting list , well living standard , safe street , well and more housing and a well start for our child in school . I thank my hon . friend and parliamentary neighbour for his question . I know his constituent well in Wolverhampton and he be right that a high standard of living , low NHS waiting list , more housing and child get a well start in life will be good for his constituent in Wolverhampton and good for constituent right around the country . vibrant town centre be so important for the health of our local economy . under the Conservatives , shop lifting be allow to spiral out of control and we be still deal with the consequence . not too long ago , in Hucknall , a shopworker be brutally attack . when I speak to local resident and business across Sherwood Forest , they tell I that this kind of antisocial behaviour have mean that they do not want to go out into town at night . can the Minister confirm that the measure announce in the plan for change will deliver safe street and be a boost to local economy ? I be very sorry to hear about the distressing attack on the shopworker in my hon . friend ' s constituency . everyone should be free to go to work without the fear of be attack while do their job . I be pleased to say that , under this Government , assault a shopworker will be make a separate criminal offence . my hon . friend be right to say that , on top of that , we need to do more to ensure that our town centre be safe . restore community police with the additional police officer and police community support officer that we plan will enable all our constituent to visit their town centre and go about their business with peace and confidence . I welcome the announcement on the judicial review proposal . the Government ' s plan for change be an important endeavour , which will need not just Cabinet colleague but civil servant to row in behind it . be the Minister able to tell the House how he be marshal and co - ordinating political and official activity to deliver that , and who will hold the circle to deliver across Government , rather than just in silos ? I be grateful to the Chair of the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee , as he point out an important problem . siloing be a traditional and difficult issue in our system . this be a plan for the whole of Government — right across Government . the Prime Minister have be very clear with the Cabinet that the goal and aim set out in the plan for change be key thing to deliver over the next few year . they require a whole - of - Government machine , cross departmental boundary and ensure that we be focus on outcome for the public rather than on the process , which sometimes detain we . I thank the Minister for his answer . the high street have become almost a battlefield with shopkeeper try to ensure that their good be not steal and that they be not attack . in Northern Ireland , we have a problem similar to what the Minister have outline and other have describe . what help be have CCTV in place , and a police force that be receptive and answer quickly to urgent request for assistance . have the Minister have any chance to talk to the Police and Justice Minister in Northern Ireland to ensure that what have be do here can be replicate in Northern Ireland in such a way that we can all gain ? not for the first time , the hon . Gentleman speak a lot of common sense . wherever people be in the UK , they want the freedom to go about their business — shopping , work or whatever it be — in peace . we believe that some of those measure , such as CCTV , be important . so too be community police . I be very happy to have a positive and constructive dialogue with the Administration in Northern Ireland and all the devolve government on these issue . power in these area be devolve , but we share a common interest in protect the public and ensure that our street and community be safe . I call the shadow Minister . in recent week , in response to write parliamentary question , the Cabinet Office have refuse to commit to update Parliament on the status of the target in this plan ; refuse to publish information on the delivery board monitoring ; refuse to have an independent review and audit of the target and to publish an annual cost analysis of they ; refuse to publish a risk register on meet the target ; refuse to publish an annual report ; and refuse to publish a public dashboard . at the same time , minister have be unable to explain how a series of target in the plan will be measure , so will the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster explain whether this a sign that his Department be be obstructive and evasive , or that the plan have not be think through beyond the slogan ? I welcome the hon . gentleman to his place . if he want to know what the target be , I suggest that he read the plan for change ; they be set out very carefully in it . on the list of process , I say that we be focus on outcome . that be why today we have announce reform of the judicial review process to stop repeat , and often lengthy and hugely expensive , action that delay important investment project that be in the national interest . I would have think that he would have welcome that . Cyber Security what recent progress his Department have make on strengthen cyber security . what recent progress his Department have make on strengthen cyber security . the battle to ensure protection against cyber - attack be constant and ongoing . I make a speech to the NATO cyber - defence conference a couple of month ago , and say that the Government be take action to strengthen our cyber - security and protect our digital economy to deliver economic growth . last week , we announce important proposal to protect UK business from ransomware , the most harmful cyber - crime , which can often cost a lot of money and do a lot of damage . those measure will complement the Cyber Security and Resilience Bill , which be be introduce this session , to help to make the UK safe from cyber - threat . give the critical importance of close the skill gap across the Government and defence sector to safeguard against emerge threat in this digital age , which worry my constituent of Stoke - on - Trent South , what plan do the Government have to collaborate with organisation such as Code First Girls to develop a skilled and inclusive cyber - workforce , as highlight in the artificial intelligence opportunity action plan ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s question . the AI opportunitie action plan give we great opportunity and show how seriously we take this matter . I know that organisation such as Code First Girls be do important work provide free code course for woman . I thank they for that . it be really important in pursue this plan that we have the skilled people to do it . I be pleased to say that much of the cyber - security work in Government be lead by outstanding woman . we want more people with the right skill , so well do to Code First Girls , which we look forward to continue to work with . between July 2023 and 2024 , over 150 cyber - incident be report by the local government sector in the UK . last year , the average ransom demand from a ransomware attack be over £ 2 . 2 million . as the local government sector do not pay ransom , the average cost to our council of recover from a ransomware attack be approximately £ 12 million . will my right hon . friend therefore make additional support available to local authority to enhance their cyber - security and protect local service for constituent such as mine in Stevenage ? my hon . friend be right to draw attention to the threat to local authority . this be a whole - system threat . it can affect central Government , private business and local authority . in October , my colleague at the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government launch the cyber assessment framework for local government , which set a clear standard for the sector . they also provide monthly cyber clinic and support local authority to improve collaboration , share intelligence and tackle common vulnerability . there have to be constant dialogue and a constant fight against this grow threat . minister in this Department and in other have be generous in engage with my repeat request for engagement with Cheltenham ' s cyber - security industry , where GCHQ and the National Cyber Security Centre be locate . there be increase evidence that have the private and public sector co - locate be important for our cyber - security sector . the Golden Valley development provide an opportunity to do that , and the place for growth scheme might give an opportunity for more public sector official to be place alongside one of our most influential cyber - cluster . would the Minister be interested in have a meeting about that ? but not at the expense of Lancashire . thank you , Mr Speaker . I congratulate the hon . member for his relentlessness in raise those issue on behalf of his constituency . he be right to draw attention to the asset we have there — GCHQ and the National Cyber Security Centre — and I pay tribute to the official work there . there be a benefit to cluster in people learn from one another and in be close by , and it all help contribute to our effort in this area . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . last year , the National Cyber Security Centre , locate in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) , say that the Government be almost certain that russian actor have attempt to interfere in the 2019 general election . we be clearly in a new era of politic . trust in politic be at an all - time low ; disinformation be on the rise ; and follow instance across the world of foreign interference in election , it be essential that the Government make a plan to address this threat to democracy . it be vital that we take all possible step to restore faith in politic to strengthen our political system , boost political engagement at home and protect our national democracy from external influence . what step be the Secretary of State take to safeguard the democratic process of the United Kingdom from foreign interference ? the Liberal Democrat spokesperson make some strong point . we have to take the protection of our democratic system and process seriously . I outline russian activity in my speech to the NATO cyber - security conference a couple of month ago . we have to guard against it here and help other country guard against it , too . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Defence make very clear yesterday what we think of russian interference in our water , and the same apply in the cyber - sphere . relation with the EU what step he be take to improve relation with the EU . what step he be take to improve relation with the EU . what step he be take to improve relation with the EU . the Prime Minister and the President of the European Commission have agree to strengthen the relationship between the EU and the UK , put it on a more solid , stable footing . I be take forward discussion with my EU counterpart , Commissioner Maro š Š ef č ovi č . in two week ' time , the Prime Minister will attend a summit with fellow european leader on european defence . do the Minister agree that the art , musician and the wide creative sector play a vital role in our economy , which be why work to negotiate a deal with touring artist be so important ? will the Minister confirm that this be still a priority for he ? my hon . friend make a good point , and I can confirm that our priority remain ensure that UK artist can continue to perform and promote themselves around the world . that be why the Department for Culture , Media and Sport be work collaboratively with the creative sector and across Government to address key issue for our brilliant artist and their support staff tour the EU . as we set out in our manifesto , we will work with the EU and member state to explore how good to improve those arrangement , but without see a return to freedom of movement . I be frequently contact by business in my constituency who be deeply concerned about the trade barrier put up by the previous Government that be damage growth in the north - east . may I urge my right hon . friend in the strong possible term to prioritise pragmatism in our relation with the EU and to ensure that business in my part of the country can get the support they need and export the good they manufacture ? my hon . friend raise a good point . of course , we set out in our manifesto that we would not return to the single market , to the custom union or to freedom of movement . within that framework , we absolutely take a pragmatic approach , put the national interest first to tear down trade barrier wherever we can . the end of this month will mark the anniversary of Brexit . will the Minister assure I that we will not return to the appalling division of the past , and do he agree that the forthcoming summit and reset negotiation be a vital opportunity to discuss growth , not just for the diverse community and business in my constituency , but for our nation ? my hon . friend be absolutely right : this be a time to look to the future , not to go back to the division of the past . the forthcoming EU - UK summit present significant opportunity to make people in the UK and the EU more secure , safe and more prosperous . for more than 15 year , the European Union have be in breach of its international treaty obligation to join the european convention on human right . what be the Government do to address the arrogance of the European Union on that issue ? I would say , first , that the Government be commit to our membership of the european convention on human right , and secondly , that the hon . Gentleman talk about body and organisation not be compliant with international treaty , but one of the big problem with the previous Government be how they sign international treaty and then seek to condemn they when they themselves have put pen to paper . Maro š Š ef č ovi č be today dangle the prospect of the UK join the pan - Euro - Mediterranean convention . of course , the quiet part be that that would once again turn this country into rule taker , not rule maker . ahead of the summit , can the Paymaster General rule out the prospect of the UK fall in line with so - call dynamic alignment — in other word , take EU rule and regulation — and will we instead strike out in the world and do new deal with America and around the Pacific rim ? I do not accept the binary choice that the hon . Gentleman present . we want to increase trade and export all around the world — that be hugely important . as the Prime Minister say , we do not choose between ally ; we look to deepen all our relationship . of course , we welcome the positive and constructive tone from Commissioner Š ef č ovi č . we be always look for way to reduce barrier to trade , but within our manifesto red line , because we take a pragmatic view on where the national interest lie . we do not currently have any plan to join PEM , and we will not provide a running commentary on every comment that be make . I call the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster Yesterday in Davos , Mr Š ef č ovi č suggest that the UK and the EU be talk about dynamic alignment . as the Paymaster General will be aware , that is , if true , a very significant step . will he be clear with the House : be dynamic alignment on the table ? I have to give the hon . gentleman top mark for audacity . I do not know whether conservative mp have hear , but a week ago , the Leader of the Opposition give her new year speech , and , as I be sure they know , we listen to it extremely carefully . do they know what she say about previous EU - UK negotiation ? she say that the Conservative Government be engage in they " before we have a plan for growth outside the EU … these mistake be make because we tell people what they want to hear first and then try to work it out later . " why doesn ' t the — Order . I think we be in danger — [ interruption . ] I be not go to sit down , Minister . [ interruption . ] thank you . we have a lot of question to get through . if you want to make a statement on that in future , I would welcome it . I would welcome that , too , Mr Speaker , because the right hon . Gentleman be not answer my question — just as he do not answer the question of my hon . friend the Member for Dumfries and Galloway ( John Cooper ) , and just as his Department be not answer question of any hue at the moment , as my hon . friend the Member for Kingswinford and South Staffordshire ( Mike Wood ) make clear . it come to something when Mr Š ef č ovi č be a well guide to what be go on than the British Government . if the Government be commit to dynamic alignment , that be a significant step , as the right hon . Gentleman will know , because it could bring the European Court of Justice back into have jurisdiction over the United Kingdom . so , for the avoidance of doubt , will he rule out the ECJ have jurisdiction over the UK in any regard in the future ? I be astonish by the question , because the hon . Gentleman be also the shadow Northern Ireland Secretary , and will know the role that the European Court of Justice play in the Windsor framework . turn to his question about the negotiation , we have set out our red line in the manifesto , and have set out example of thing that we be seek to negotiate — that be already there . the Leader of the Opposition be apologise last week for the conduct of the conservative party in its relationship with the EU . why be the hon . Gentleman not start with an apology , or do he just not get the memo from his leader ? I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the wholly inadequate deal with the EU negotiate by the previous Conservative Government have do enormous damage to british business , which have see soar import cost , increase workforce shortage , and ream of red tape create huge barrier to growth . the return of a Trump Administration in Washington change the landscape of trade deal globally with the threat of high tariff , and will be deeply worry for many business across the country . the UK must lead on the world stage again , stand up for our interest by work closely with other country — most importantly , our european neighbour — as set out by my right hon . friend the leader of the Liberal Democrats in his new year ' s speech last week . I urge the Minister to be more ambitious in rebuild our relationship with Europe . do he agree that the good way to boost growth and fix our relationship with the EU be to agree a new UK - EU custom union ? I be grateful to the liberal Democrat spokesperson for her question , but as I indicate in an early answer , we do not choose between ally . we be look to deepen our trade link right around the world with different partner , but the hon . Lady should be aware that we be ambitious on the UK - EU relationship , and we will take that ambition forward into the UK - EU summit . House of Lords Reform what recent progress his Department have make on reform of the House of Lords . what recent progress his Department have make on reform of the House of Lords . as an immediate first step in reform , the Government introduce the House of Lords ( Hereditary Peers ) Bill to remove the right of hereditary peer to sit and vote in the House of Lords . that Bill be unamended and pass in this House , and will soon be in Committee in the other place . I regularly meet talented , hard - work and intelligent young people across Ossett and Denby Dale who often feel detached from politic . how quickly can the Government make progress on this legislation so that all young people have an equal chance to make the law and shape our future , not just those bear into privilege ? my hon . friend be absolutely right , and we want to see this Bill on the statute book by the end of this Session . the role of hereditary peer be completely indefensible in this day and age . last year , the Bill be resoundingly approve by this House , and it be currently go through the other place , where it will soon be in Committee . it be a clear manifesto commitment by the Labour party , and I look forward to it be deliver . I thank the Minister for his answer . be the MP for Leeds South West and Morley be the great privilege I could ask for , and constituency boundary ensure that all part of our country be represent in this place . the same be not true of the other place , which be not representative of our nation and region . what work be be do or consider to remedy that , to ensure that all of our community be represent in the other place ? as the Member of Parliament for the seat where I grow up , I share my hon . friend ' s passion for represent my area . he will be aware of the Government ' s manifesto commitment to reform the process of appointment to the House of Lords so that it well reflect the country it serve , and we will consult on proposal for an alternative second Chamber that be more representative of the nation and region . in 2022 , the then shadow Leader of the House rightly accuse Boris Johnson of abuse the honours system by appoint crony to the House of Lords , and promise that an incoming Labour Prime Minister would never do such a thing . now , have lose her seat at the general election , that former shadow Leader of the House be one of 30 new Labour peer wait to be appoint by the Prime Minister to sit in the House of Lords . could the Minister explain how the Labour party stuff the House of Lords with its crony be any less of an affront to democracy than when the Tories do it ? I do not think the hon . Gentleman can seriously compare the appointment we have put forward with what happen under the conservative party . we have already set out that each and every appointment will be accompany by a citation indicate the experience to be bring to the upper House , and the people he refer to will make an excellent contribution there . infected Blood Compensation Scheme : payment what progress he have make on payment to infect and affect people under the infected blood compensation scheme . what recent progress he have make on establish the infected blood compensation scheme . what recent progress he have make on establish the infected blood compensation scheme . what step he be take to monitor compensation payment for people impact by infected blood . the Infected Blood Compensation Authority have make the first compensation offer to 11 people , with a total value of more than £ 13 million . the Government have also pay over £ 1 billion in interim compensation , and in the Budget we announce £ 11 . 8 billion of funding for the scheme . yesterday , I visit the Infected Blood Compensation Authority office in Newcastle , and I be reassure to see the progress that be be make swiftly and compassionately . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his update to the House . I note the press release that go out yesterday , and no doubt there will be another one on 5 March , the day before the next Cabinet Office question . however , I want to be constructive in my approach ; I , too , will be visit the Infected Blood Compensation Authority in Newcastle , next Thursday . the legal representative of the complex web of stakeholder in the infected blood and affected community remain concerned about the status of the arm ' s length body , the appeal process and the role of victim in the oversight board . I be absolutely clear that the Infected Blood Compensation Authority have the necessary authority and will work through those issue . I urge the Minister to work with and reassure the victim ' representative , so that the lawyer can be more constructive in support these people along this difficult pathway . no doubt hon . member will come in with more question , but do the Minister agree with I that we need to move forward in a constructive manner ? yes , the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . I look forward to the former Paymaster General ' s reflection after his visit next week . I be delighted yesterday to meet the user consultant — three victim ; two infected , one affect — who be certainly make their voice hear at the Infected Blood Compensation Authority . that voice of victim be hugely important , as be the constructive approach the right hon . Gentleman have indicate . I welcome the £ 11 . 8 billion allocate in the Budget for the infected blood scandal , which be a clear commitment from this government that they be act on this injustice . however , parent and partner of the infected , include in my constituency of Bournemouth West , be rightly apprehensive about when they will receive compensation ; many be elderly or in poor health . give the urgency of the situation , can the Minister outline when they might receive compensation and whether he will consider include they in the initial wave ? in October , application open for eligible estate to claim interim compensation payment of £ 100 , 000 . so far , more than 230 estate have receive payment . I hope those payment be welcome as the beginning of recognition for those who have lose love one to this devastating scandal . the delivery of compensation payment be rightly a matter for ibca , which be an independent arm ' s length body chair by Sir Robert Francis . the Government expect payment to eligible affected people to begin this year , follow a second set of regulation that I will be lay before Parliament in the come week . I do not imagine there be one MP in this House who have not have constituent come to talk to they about the infected blood scandal . in fact , this week I speak to one such constituent , Linda Cannon , who tell I her story , say : " I lose my husband , Billy , in February 2013 to Hepatitis C after a blood transfusion in 1986 , for a stomach ulcer , at Bangour Hospital . he be not inform till 2011 that he have be infect , only find out after present with a sore back . he undergo severe treatment , without success , which will live with I forever . life have be difficult to deal with after this " . the consequence have be completely devastating for her family . Mr Cannon will not see justice , but several of my other constituent must . I welcome the urgency with which this Government have move forward with this issue , because justice for the victim of this injustice be long overdue . can the Minister update the House on how he have be work — not just in England , but across Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland — to make sure that payment get to those who need they immediately ? the whole House will be move by the story of my hon . friend ' s constituent . it be a story from this appalling scandal that many of we across the House will be hear from our constituent . I be pleased that first payment have be make to people who have wait far too long for compensation . those payment be make by the end of 2024 , as I commit to the House to do . I also commit specifically to my hon . friend to work closely with the devolved administration to ensure that victim across the United Kingdom can achieve justice . the victim of the infected blood scandal , include those from my constituency who attend Treloar college in Hampshire , have be fight for justice for decade . they have raise deep concern about the slow progress of compensation payment ; the Infected Blood Compensation Authority project that by the end of March just 250 people will have be offer compensation . will the Government accelerate the roll - out of the compensation scheme to ensure that victim see justice within their lifetime ? I be restless for progress on the speed of payment , and I will do everything in my gift as a Minister to lay the regulation before this House speedily . ibca be obviously operationally independent and — I be have this discussion yesterday in Newcastle — the test and learn approach that it use , which start with a representative sample of case , will allow it to ramp up delivery . when I be in Newcastle yesterday I see a group of public servant work efficiently in a compassionate way to deliver . ministerial travel : cost what step he be take to reduce the cost of ministerial travel . across all our work this Government be determined to deliver well value for money for taxpayer . that be why , shortly after we come to office , this Government scrap the conservative party ' s vip helicopter service , which be a grossly wasteful symbol of a Government who be totally out of touch with the problem face the rest of the country . under this government , Ministers must ensure that they always make efficient and cost - effective travel arrangement , which the Government publish on gov . uk . the Minister refer to helicopter travel , and she have give her description of the previous Government . do she not accept that the Government be use vip helicopter travel , not through the Ministry of Defence budget but through the Cabinet Office budget ? do that not make this government grossly hypocritical , and be that not a symbol of how out of touch they be with the british public ? under the last government , the former Prime Minister would take helicopter for short journey at huge waste to the taxpayer . the Prime Minister ' s ministerial travel under this Government be always decide with consideration for the most efficient and good use of time and , crucially , in the interest of the taxpayer . EU Trade and Co - operation agreement : fish whether he have have recent discussion with the fishing industry on the UK - EU trade and co - operation agreement . I engage with a range of stakeholder relevant to our relationship with the EU , for example through the UK - EU trade and co - operation agreement ' s domestic advisory group , which I last meet in September and which include representative of the UK fishing industry . the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs be the responsible Department , and have ongoing dialogue with the industry . I recently meet my hon . friend the Minister for Food Security and Rural Affairs to discuss fishery matter , and I will meet representative of the scottish fishing industry in the very near future to discuss their interest in our fishery relationship with the EU under the trade and co - operation agreement . I be delighted to hear that those meeting be schedule , because the review of the TCA be see by fishing industry around the UK as an opportunity to undo some of the damage that be do by Boris Johnson at the end of the Brexit negotiation . I meet the EU Commission official who will be lead the EU side of the negotiation and it be clear that she be inform of their industry ' priority and have a plan for achieve they . the EU see this as an important piece of work . the Minister can only do what need to be do if he be prepared to engage with and listen to the view of our fishing industry and community . I understand and recognise the strong interest in what happen in 2026 when the arrangement that be negotiate by the previous Government end . I say to the right hon . Gentleman that I will listen and engage . we will protect the interest of our fishery , and also fulfil our international commitment to protect the marine environment . Public Services Reform what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to reform public service . as I set out in a speech last month , modern government be about not just what the Government want to do but reform of the state itself . we want to see public service that revolve around the need of service user , use new technology in the good way possible to secure value for money and well outcome for our citizen . we have launch a number of test and learn project with local authority area to get well result on difficult issue such as temporary accommodation . just this week , we announce that we will launch a new gov . uk app in June , which will be a step change in fast and easy public access to Government service . I thank the Minister for those comment . how will he ensure that tackle health inequality be bake into public service reform , devolution agreement and local growth plan ? at the heart of what we want to do be improve living standard , outcome and opportunity for all . one of the consequence of the long waiting time and waiting list in the NHS in recent year be that it have be tough on those who simply can not afford to pay . it be therefore in the interest of good health and equal access to put in the investment that be announce by the Chancellor in the Budget , which be be take forward in the plan announce by my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care . the reform of public service and the reliance on artificial intelligence to deliver that lead the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs to pilot the Microsoft Copilot program . that pilot end after six month , yet it demonstrate transformative improvement in departmental efficiency and be particularly beneficial for disabled and neurodivergent staff . will the Minister confirm whether funding for that tool , which have be suspend until 2026 , could be release so that staff could benefit from its application ? the hon . Gentleman be quite right to point out the advantage that can come from these thing . I be reluctant to make specific announcement about funding for specific project . however , the Government be determined not only to make the UK a good home for investment in AI , which will be huge around the world in the come year , but to make the good possible use of AI in the delivery of public service , which we believe can get good value for money and well outcome for the public . the road will not always be easy , and there will be thing that go wrong , but frankly , with our tradition of creativity and innovation , we want to grasp this technology and make the good use of it . fraud : public Sector what step he be take to reduce fraud in the public sector . yesterday , the Government announce ambitious new legislation to take action on fraud , update the Department for Work and Pensions ' power for the first time in 20 year and introduce new power to take on high - value fraud across the wide public sector . at the Budget , the Chancellor announce the big welfare fraud and error budget in recent history . under the last government , fraud spiral out of control , but we be determined to protect every pound of taxpayer ' money . I thank my hon . friend for her answer . one of the big scandal that we see under the last Conservative Government be Ministers give out dodgy covid contract to their friend and donor . will the Minister update the House on what step the Government be take to ensure that there will never again be a repeat of that shameful behaviour and that where the public have be defraud , we will get our money back ? my hon . friend , as a local government leader during the pandemic , will know how hard thing be for community ; sacrifice be make and people risk their life to keep the rest of we safe . he will share my anger at those who use the national crisis to steal billion from the taxpayer . we will take action on that where the last Government fail . the Public Authorities ( Fraud , Error and Recovery ) Bill , which be introduce yesterday , will give the Government tough new power to investigate and recover money steal from the public and will double the time we have to bring those fraudster to justice . public procurement : reform what step he be take to reform public procurement . under this Government , public procurement will be laser focus on deliver our mission and value for money for the taxpayer . the Procurement Act 2023 will commence in February , create a simple , more flexible procurement regime underpin by a new mission - lead national procurement policy statement . I really welcome the wide interest of hon . member from across the House in this work and that of so many small business , social enterprise and voluntary sector organisation . I look forward to bring forward the npps to support small and medium - sized enterprise , tackle waste and deliver on our mission . I be so pleased to hear about the national procurement policy statement next month . as well as encourage buy british , there be huge opportunity to use procurement to encourage growth and local supply chain , such as in float offshore wind in Cornwall , as well as in other industry . will the Minister confirm that there will be a bold procurement policy that will ensure economic growth in every corner of our country , even as far down as Cornwall ? I welcome the conversation last week with my hon . friend , who talk I through the importance of small and medium - sized enterprise to growth in Truro and Falmouth . a lot of small business I have speak to say the same thing : it can be too complex and slow to bid for Government contract , sometimes those contract come out too late and sometimes they can not get on the play field . we have listen very carefully to what my hon . friend and other have to say on these issue , and we will bring forward an npps that deliver for sme . I call the shadow Minister . unbelievably , the Treasury Committee have already raise concern about the Office for Value for money , cite issue around its remit , cost , cross - government duplication and more , which could be express concisely as fear around the value for money of Labour ' s new Office for Value for Money . do the Minister agree with the financial market , which do not believe this Government ' s commitment to reform public procurement or to prudent financial management , which be why they have add a Reeves ratio to the UK Government ' s debt , cost taxpayer an extra £ 10 billion a year ? yesterday , the National Audit Office publish a report on the almost £ 50 billion gap in building maintenance . that be the legacy that the last Government leave we : crumble building , 15 year of lose wage growth and stall productivity . compare that with this Government ' s record in just the past six month : £ 63 billion investment at the UK investment summit and lead the way on artificial intelligence . the International Monetary Fund upgrade our growth to the fast in Europe . the opposition might want to run down this country , but we be determined to grow our economy . Topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . since the last Cabinet Office question we have set out the Government ' s approach on public sector reform , publish our response to module 1 of the covid - 19 inquiry , update the national risk register and launch our artificial intelligence opportunity plan . just yesterday , alongside the Department for Work and Pensions , we introduce new legislation to deliver the big fraud crackdown in a generation , with great power for the Cabinet Office ' s public sector fraud authority to retrieve some of the money that be lose during the last Administration . quite properly , this week the Government have be talk about apply AI to improve efficiency and effectiveness across Whitehall . when a human civil servant — let we say at his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs or the DWP — make a mistake and be challenge , they can explain their logic and how they come to the decision . we know that the court always believe that computer be good and give the right answer , but AI make mistake — sometimes huge one . because of the way it be program , it can not explain how it get to the decision . how will the Government ensure that the appeal process continue to work and we do not have a high - tech version of the Post Office scandal ? the right hon . Gentleman raise an important issue . the public inquiry into the Horizon scandal show that blind faith in a computer system use in a court of law can lead to injustice . I do believe in the possibility of AI , but it be important to keep the human element at all time . it will enhance human productivity but not replace it . that be the way we should go . the Government be elect on a promise to buy , make and sell more in Britain . what action be the Minister take to prioritise UK manufacturing and UK - make steel in public procurement for energy and defence product on national security ground , as be allow by the World Trade Organisation ? I welcome the recent conversation with my hon . friend on this important matter . the Government ' s industrial strategy outline the importance of manufacturing in the defence industry to economic growth and national security . the new national procurement policy statement will put growth at the heart of procurement and will align to our industrial strategy . I call the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster . give the news from Germany , will the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster update the House on the work the Cabinet Office be do to prepare for the possibility of an outbreak of foot and mouth ? I be grateful to the shadow Minister for his question . those of we of a certain age will remember the appalling consequence of the last serious outbreak of foot and mouth in the UK , more than 20 year ago . let I say very clearly from this Dispatch Box that we be treat this with the utmost seriousness . I meet with Cobra official yesterday and have ask for several briefing since the outbreak in Germany , and my colleague at the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs at a ministerial and official level be take this very seriously as well . we know the threat that such an outbreak would pose to our farming community , and we want to work with farmer and do everything we possibly can to protect they from it . so far , there have be no outbreak in the UK , but we will — order . this be a very important subject ; I totally agree . the trouble be , in topical , I have to get a lot of member in . as this subject be so important , I would always welcome a statement on Monday . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his reply . could he assure I that he be speak to interested party in Northern Ireland ? give that Northern Ireland be so closely connect to Ireland , which be part of the EU , farmer there be consequently very concerned that they may be affect by any spread of the disease . will he therefore assure I that he be undertake that work ? I will keep it short , Mr Speaker : we will ensure that we co - ordinate our response with all part of the UK . the Labour - lead city council in Norwich be recently award £ 34 million in Government funding to help to unlock affordable home and job at Anglia Square . this be long overdue , and will bring huge benefit to Norwich . it be a brilliant example of the Government ' s mission for growth as part of our plan for change . will my right hon . friend update we on broad cross - Government plan to deliver the affordable housing need across the country ? my hon . friend have be a brilliant champion for more affordable housing in her constituency . through our plan for change , we have commit to build 1 . 5 million home this Parliament — the big increase in affordable housing in a generation , which will benefit family in Norwich and across the country . I be pleased to hear about the plan at Anglia Square , which be a powerful example of what can be achieve when a Labour council work with a Labour Government . More than 170 tonne of illegal meat product have be seize at the port of Dover since 2022 . give the biosecurity threat pose by african swine fever and foot and mouth disease to more than 800 farm in my constituency , alongside thousand of other up and down the country , what step be the right hon . Gentleman take with Cabinet colleague to ensure national security and protect british agriculture ? I be sure that a statement would be very welcome . as I say in response to the shadow Minister , we take the threat of foot and mouth in particular very seriously . we want to work with our farmer and protect they . this be a matter of national security , but it be also a matter of make sure that great british farming be not affect by the outbreak in Germany . under the SNP , every public service in Scotland be strain under 18 year of mismanagement , with scot pay more for less . thank to decision take by this UK Government , the Scottish Government have the large budgetary settlement in the history of devolution . do my right hon . friend agree that more money will not solve all the problem with scottish public service , and that we also need a programme of reform ? give that the UK Labour Government be institute a comprehensive programme of reform , would he share those learning with the Scottish Government in order that we can reform our public service , too ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to draw attention to the increase funding for the devolved Government in Scotland as a result of the Budget . we be also put more money into the NHS in England . he be right to say that when we ask the taxpayer to pay more , that should come with reform . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care have be clear about that , and I hope it apply elsewhere too . the permanent secretary at the Ministry of Defence say recently that he would reduce the number of permanent civil servant at the MOD by 10 % by the end of this Parliament . will the Cabinet Office be large or small at the end of this Parliament ? the hon . Gentleman have perhaps not be pay attention . we announce our programme to reduce the number of civil servant in the Cabinet Office just before Christmas . innovation lie at the heart of our five mission . I would like to ask the Minister about her reflection on see innovation when she visit Milton Keynes recently and how we can take it forward across the country . it be wonderful to visit Milton Keynes and to see the work of a pioneering Labour council . the work the Labour council have lead to open up service to the NHS be a real example of the shift to community that the Government be commit to . Milton Keynes show that when a wonderful MP work with a Labour council and the NHS amazing thing can happen . with impend decision on airport expansion across the south of England , community in my constituency , include Flamstead and Markyate , be very worried , not only because the evidence about economic growth be quite low but because the Climate Change Committee have say that the impact on the climate would be rather large . can the Minister assure the House that the Government will be listen to the Government ' s own adviser and will have a UK - wide capacity management framework before any airport expansion ? there have be a lot of speculation in recent day . I would advise the whole House to not comment on speculation . if there be an announcement to be make , it will be make . travel and work abroad can be an incredibly enrich experience , and I welcome the Government ' s step to strengthen our relationship with the EU . my young constituent would like to know specifically what step be be take to increase their opportunity in Europe . what discussion have the Minister have with Cabinet colleague and EU counterpart regard an EU youth mobility scheme and any other further action to ease work and travel for young people in Europe ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for that question . we have arrangement with France to make school trip easy . I think we agree across the House that school trip be an enrich experience . the Department for Education work with the British Council on the learning assistance scheme , which the Government hugely support and want to drive forward . with regard to a youth mobility scheme , I be not go to give a run commentary . what I will say be that we will , of course , always act in the UK ' s national interest and that we will not go back to freedom of movement . how much long will it be before we get an answer from the Government on the review of the vaccine damage payment scheme ? it be initiate when my right hon . friend the Member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) be in the Cabinet Office about a year ago . when will we get an answer ? my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care meet with colleague on this issue . we believe the vaccine programme have great benefit for the UK , but there be a compensation scheme in place for case where that be not the case . early this month , the Chancellor rightly go to China to put our UK - China relation on a more pragmatic footing . will my right hon . friend update the House on what assessment he have make of the National Security and Investment Act 2021 to ensure that it remain fit for purpose in safeguard the UK ' s economic and national security as we cultivate new commercial link ? the Chancellor be right to go to China . it be an important economic relationship , but there be a security aspect , too . the National Security and Investment Act have an important role to play ; it be there to safeguard critical area of the economy . we keep it under regular review , and we will approach the relationship keep both the security and economic interest of the country in mind . two week ago , my constituency be hit by the bad snow in 15 year , leave vulnerable and old resident , school and GP surgery block in by the snow . I commend the Barnsley council team , who be out 24 hour a day , eight day a week solid , but because resource be stretch , their gritter can cover only the council ' s primary and secondary road . do the Minister agree that much more should be do to improve national resilience in extreme and exceptional circumstance where snow be prolong by cold temperature , by give local authority that cover rural area such as mine increase grit resource and access to snow plough ? I thank my hon . friend for the work she do to support constituent during the heavy snowfall , and I thank Barnsley council and other responder for their work . this responsibility lie with local authority , but I know that my colleague in the Cabinet Office , the Department for Transport and the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government be keen for authority to receive as much support as possible . MHCLG will be in close contact with local resilience forum to see what support they need . what progress have be make on improve engagement with those infect and affect by the contaminated blood scandal ? as the Paymaster General be aware , there have be a great deal of concern among those people and the organisation that represent they . may I urge he to sit down with his opposite number in the Department of Health and Social Care , which be responsible for get aid to the organisation that support those people who be infect and affect , because they be desperately in need of the resource ? I will be carry out another round of engagement with victim next week . as I say in answer to the former Paymaster General , the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) , the role of user consultant in the Infected Blood Compensation Authority be vital as well . there be still , sadly , two victim of the contaminated blood scandal die on a weekly basis . will my right hon . friend say what be prevent the Government from instruct ibca to issue core payment today to all live infect victim register with the exist support scheme ? ibca be operationally independent , but I expect the first payment for the affected to be make before the end of this year . I be restless for progress and will do all I can as a Minister to drive this forward . public sector procurement be a fantastic way to drive productivity , innovation and local value in public service , but too often , small business , start - up and voluntary service provider in Newcastle tell I they have difficulty access public sector contract ; they do not have as many lawyer , consultant or project manager as big business . what step be the Minister take to ensure well access to public sector contract ? I have hear very similar thing from the small and medium - sized enterprise I have be talk to around the country . we be bring forward a new national procurement policy statement that will put sme right at the heart of Government procurement policy . open end - to - end procurement datum could be a goldmine for mission - drive government , and as the Competition and Markets Authority warn recently , it could make bid rigging hard . can the Minister explain how we will grasp the opportunity of open end - to - end procurement datum ? I have meet the CMA about the critical issue of bid rigging , and it be something the Government be look into . more broadly , the Procurement Act 2023 and the new national procurement policy statement put transparency and openness at the heart of our strategy , include a new online portal , which will make it much easy to see upcoming bid . agricultural and Business Property Reliefs : OBR Costing ( Urgent Question ) to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer what assessment she have make of the Office for Budget Responsibility ' s supplementary forecast information release on the costing of change to agricultural and business property relief . at the autumn Budget , we take difficult decision on tax , welfare and spending that be necessary to restore economic stability , fix the public finance and support public service . we have to do that to address the mess we inherit from the previous Government , which the right hon . member for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) will remember well , have serve in that ill - fated government . we have take these decision in a way that make the tax system fair and more sustainable . the Government be well target agricultural property relief and business property relief to make they fair . these reform mean that despite the tough fiscal context , the Government be maintain very significant level of relief from inheritance tax beyond what be available to other . under the current system , the benefit of the 100 % relief on business and agricultural asset be heavily skewed towards the wealthy estate . accord to the late datum from his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs , 40 % of agricultural property relief benefit the top 7 % of estate make claim . that be just 117 estate claim £ 219 million of relief . it be a similar picture for business property relief , with more than 50 % of it be claim by just 4 % of estate make claim , which equate to 158 estate claim £ 558 million in tax relief . our reform mean that individual can access 100 % relief for the first £ 1 million of combined business and agricultural asset , and 50 % thereafter . give the nil rate band , this mean that a couple can pass on up to £ 3 million between they to a direct descendant , inheritance tax free . yesterday , the Office for Budget Responsibility publish further detail on the data source and modelling use to estimate costing across a number of the tax measure announce at Budget , include the reform to agricultural property relief and business property relief . the costing be the same as publish at Budget , and the approach to model the costing be typical and in line with other tax policy . as the Government have set out , the reform mean that almost three quarter of estate claim APR in 2026 - 27 , include those that also claim BPR , will not pay more inheritance tax . this be a fair approach that protect farm while also fix the public service we all rely on . I call the shadow Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs . have inherit the fast - grow economy in the G7 , the Chancellor ' s Budget have lead to the high borrowing cost since the pandemic , growth flatlining , business confidence plummeting and job freeze . who have labour choose to pay the price for its economic illiteracy ? pensioner , family business and farmer . for month , farmer , farming business , professional adviser and economist , and now eight major supermarket , have warn the Chancellor that she have get her figure wrong , but minister cleave desperately to their soundbite . let we hope that they listen to the OBR . yesterday , the independent OBR release additional information about this particular measure and reiterate the " ' high ' uncertainty " of the predict yield . it note that the yield of the measure be likely to be reduce by 35 % because of behavioural response , and that it be unlikely to reach a steady state for 20 year . the OBR also express grave concern about the impact on old individual and their ability to plan . in short , the reassurance provide by minister be fall almost as flat as the economy . the Chief Secretary to the Treasury have lecture this House about the peril of sideline the OBR . in light of its analysis , will the Minister now commit to a full and proper review of this dreadful policy ? the public have notice that Government Ministers be fail to answer reasonable question about their policy , so will the Minister please give straight answer to the farmer and business watch our proceeding today ? in light of the new analysis , how many farm do the Treasury think will be affect by the change to APR , APR / BPR and BPR alone ? what assessment have he make of the Central Association of Agricultural Valuers ' find that the Chancellor have underestimate the number of farm affect by the change by a factor of five ? how many tenant farmer will be evict ? as worrying report of suicide among farmer begin to emerge , will the Minister please do what the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs have fail to do and measure the number of suicide over the next 12 month , so that we can understand the human cost of this policy ? finally , why do the Minister think that Tesco , Sainsbury ' s , Asda , Morrisons , Marks & Spencer , Aldi , Lidl and the Co - op have all come out against this tax policy and believe the Treasury ' s figure to be wrong ? why do he think they be wrong and he be right ? I think there may be some confusion on the conservative Benches about what the OBR data show . the datum publish by the OBR yesterday refer to exactly the same costing as be publish at Budget . it set out the approach to modelling and the costing , which be typical and in line with other tax policy . indeed , the OBR ' s statement make it clear that : " the OBR ' s role be to provide independent scrutiny and certification of whether the Government ' s policy costing be reasonable and central . " that be exactly what the OBR have do in publish the extra information , which show the modelling behind the datum that be publish at the time of the Budget . the shadow Secretary of State ask about the datum . the datum on the number of affected estate claim APR and , indeed , APR / BPR — some 530 be the upper estimate — be in table 1 . 1 of the OBR document publish yesterday . that be consistent with what we have be say for many month since the Budget . I think Opposition Members be confuse the value of farm with the value of claim under inheritance tax . the only way to truly understand the impact of change to inheritance tax policy on inheritance tax claim be to look at the claim datum itself . we be work in partnership with the large supermarket chain to make sure they be drive economic growth . we be very clear that some of the decision we have to take in the Budget be difficult decision that will have consequence , but we be determined to work with business across the country to drive economic growth , which be the no . 1 mission of this Government . the people of Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West love the local produce provide by local farmer in our fantastic market , such as Grainger market , and they enjoy the beautiful countryside of Northumberland , which have be shape by generation of sustainable farming . however , we can not help but be aware that most of that land be own by , for example , the Duke of Northumberland , big landowner and those seek to minimise their tax exposure , so do the Minister agree that , by keep this loophole open for so long , the country have push up land price and push out the next generation of young farmer ? there certainly be evidence that the current inheritance tax system have cause people to use these relief for tax planning and to avoid inheritance tax bill . my hon . friend allude to the broad question of the fairness and sustainability of this measure . as I mention early , 40 % of agricultural property relief benefit the top 7 % of estate , and 50 % of business property relief benefit the top 4 % of estate . the Leader of the Opposition have say that she think this be a good way to prioritise public money , but we think it be neither fair nor sustainable . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . after year of the Tories fail our rural community , include with a dodgy and utterly shameful australian trade deal , it be a great pity that the new Government have pick up the baton . from Orkney to the Isles of Scilly , Liberal Democrat colleague be extremely concerned about the impact of these proposal . the report publish yesterday clearly demonstrate the uncertainty about the income from the misguided family farm tax over the next two decade . in the light of this , and give that it will hit old farmer in particular and those who put food on the table of the United Kingdom , will the Minister do the right thing and scrap this tax ? the OBR document publish yesterday refer to the level of uncertainty associate with this policy , which be exactly what be set out at the time of the Budget , and it be a typical way in which the OBR respond to new measure . what be publish yesterday simply reiterate the OBR ' s conclusion from the end of October . do my hon . friend agree that , once again , the conservative party have fail to agree with the tough decision we have make and have no idea how to raise the revenue to finance the public service that benefit rural community like mine in north Buckinghamshire ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the party opposite — in fact , the party opposite — routinely support the Government ' s spending and investment decision but will not support any of the difficult decision we have to take to fund they . the weight of public and business opinion be not with the Minister on this issue , and the body of expert opinion speak out against this tax proposal be now overwhelming . the Minister be a kindly man , so I wonder if he will indulge I . what would he be say if he be in opposition and that weight of opinion be be express against a Conservative Government ' s Treasury policy ? the hon . Gentleman be a kindly man , too . I value the conversation that he and I have have outside the Chamber . People look at this policy , and all our policy in the Budget , will recognise that we have to take difficult decision , and will understand the context : our inheritance from the previous Government . we recognise the toughness of those decision — they be not easy to make — but we prioritise balance the public finance and economic stability , because that be how we get investment in growth , which our country so badly need . rise — Mr Dickson , I think you be very late . I would not want to embarrass you by allow you to ask a question . one of the witness before the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee tell we that the Government ' s change hit the people the Government say they be protect , and protect the people the Government say they be hit . it be difficult to improve on that analysis of what be propose . it really do not have to be like that . there be a sensible debate to be have about reform inheritance tax to stop the super - rich from shelter their wealth while still protect family farm . his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs have its technical consultation come up . why do the Minister not agree to broaden its term , engage with the farming community , and look for a way to protect family farm and get at those who be shelter their wealth in land ? the policy that we be implement include generous provision to protect family farm — the £ 1 million entire relief from inheritance tax for agriculture and business property asset . that be in addition to the nil - rate band that people can access as part of the general inheritance tax scheme . we think that strike the right balance between make sure we raise money for the public finance and protect family farm . Mr Speaker , have you notice a pattern — that on a Thursday , a Treasury Minister will be ask to come to the Commons to answer an urgent question , and there will be barely a soul on the Labour Benches behind they when they do ? order . surely that be not relevant to the question you be go to ask . come on ! the Office for Budget Responsibility forecast that the measure will raise £ 500 million in revenue by 2029 , which , in the context of tax revenue of over £ 1 , 150 billion , be a very small number . what value do the Minister put on food security for the United Kingdom ? obviously , the Government put the high priority on food security . that be why our policy set out to support it , and the farming sector more widely . the policy be one of many difficult decision that we have to take in the Budget to balance the public finance , support public service and provide the economic stability we need for investment and growth . I have hear from many farming business across Glastonbury and Somerton over the last few month , but one farm in Hurcot near Somerton recently write to I to describe the anguish and stress that the change to the APR and BPR have cause they . as in the case of many farming business , their succession planning have focus on the primary landowner retain the farm until death . how will the Minister explain to they that accord to the OBR , the potential loss of their family farm business be likely to have little impact on the public finance , and that the policy will hit the old farmer hard ? the OBR ' s publication yesterday set out the costing that be in the October Budget . there be no difference between the costing set out in October and what the OBR set out yesterday . it simply show more of the background behind how they calculate those costing , for transparency and so that people be aware . indeed , it say in the report that that be do in an effort to improve the public debate and ensure that people understand what be behind the datum publish at the time of the Budget . as I say to several Opposition Members , clearly this be one of many tough decision that we take in the Budget to balance the public finance , but we also make sure that there be great protection from inheritance tax under our propose reform scheme than be available more widely . the Labour Government ' s family farm tax will be catastrophic to farmer in my constituency in the Borders . I will join many of they and their tractor in Kelso on Saturday , when the farming community come together to show its displeasure and disapproval of this policy . farmer will struggle to pay this tax , so what assessment have the Government make of the policy ' s impact on vet , feed merchant , machinery supplier , and all the other people who support the rural economy ? support the rural economy , public service and investment right across the country be part of Labour ' s national mission to get the economy grow , but the prerequisite for that investment and economic growth be stable public finance . without economic stability , we can not proceed to the investment and growth that we all so desperately need . that be why the decision to target agricultural property relief and business property relief be take , alongside all the other difficult decision that we take in the Budget . this measure be now reveal to be spectacularly ill - consider , leave aside the fact that it be also a breathtake betrayal of farmer , who be promise before the election that this would not happen . the measure group intergenerational farmer with speculative millionaire seek to dodge tax by get involve in farming . it have put an immediate brake on investment in farming , which threaten to low yield and drive up food price . that then threaten to put inflationary pressure on the UK economy , which be already in a perilous state . this government can not just agree with the OBR when it suit they . they must agree with the OBR regardless of what it say . will the Minister please respectfully pause the measure , take some time to think about this , and come up with something that will actually deliver for the Treasury but not push our family farming sector under . there still seem to be confusion among Opposition Members about what the OBR publication set out . it reiterate the costing that be publish at the time of the Budget , on 30 October . it explain how those costing be arrive at , so that people can understand the calculation behind they , but the costing be the same as those publish at the time of the Budget . Mr Speaker , if you look at the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , you will see a reference to my family farm in my constituency . last Sunday , I drive one of our tractor to Fakenham racecourse to support the farmer ' protest against the APR and BPR . I talk to other farmer , and the key complaint be that there have be no consultation on the change , and no time for old farmer to adjust their affair . all those concern have be rubbish by Ministers time and again , most recently today . now that the OBR confirm that it be more difficult for old people to restructure their affair quickly , will the Government finally listen , show some humility , and consult on how good to tackle the tax shelterer while still protect our farmer ? the comment in the OBR publication yesterday about old individual reference a point that have be make since the Budget in debate in this place and elsewhere . we have point out that our reform of agricultural property relief and business property relief maintain generous exemption from inheritance tax ; £ 1 million be subject to relief , and there be the 50 % relief beyond that , the exist nil - rate band , and other exemption in the system . unusually , in Scotland tenant farm can be pass down as inheritance . I have be ask the Treasury whether it have make an assessment of the impact on such farm , give that their farmer can not sell land to meet the APR liability that they might face . so far , the answer appear to be that there be no assessment , so I ask the Minister for an answer from the Dispatch Box : be he aware of agricultural tenancy under the Agricultural Holdings ( Scotland ) Act 1991 , and have he make an impact assessment ? the way to calculate the impact of change to inheritance tax policy be to look at the inheritance tax claim that have be make , and that be what we have use as the basis for our calculation . in fact , the OBR publication yesterday confirm that it use HMRC ' s datum on inheritance tax relief in the past and inheritance tax project forward , and it be on the basis of that datum that we design our policy . the Minister have just confirm that the Treasury ' s modelling be base on agricultural property relief and joint agricultural and business property relief claim , yet tax expert have say in evidence to the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee that many family farm will wrap their agricultural land into a single business property relief claim , so the Treasury ' s modelling do not take into account family farm that have use a BPR - only claim , tenant farmer who use BPR , and the many rural family business that will also use BPR . will the Minister please take this opportunity to look at this again , before his Government wreck the countryside ? as I set out early , the need to reform business property relief be as strong as the need to reform agricultural property relief , in order to have stable public finance and a fair and sustainable tax system . as I set out , 40 % of APR go to the top 7 % of estate , and 50 % of BPR go to the top 4 % of estate . give the fiscal context that we inherit , that kind of unfairness be not sustainable . when balance the book , we need to develop the tax system in a way that be sustainable and give we the economic stability that we desperately need after the mess that the previous Government leave we . farmer have make their inheritance tax plan in good faith , base on exist rule . in effect , the measure be a retrospective change to tax law , so will the Minister agree to at the very least delay its implementation until the effect be properly understand by both farmer and the Government ? the Government be commit to deliver the reform announce in the Budget . we have carefully consider their impact , and design the policy to provide generous exemption from inheritance tax for small family farm and business , while ensure that we balance the public finance as fairly as possible . in the light of the uncertainty in the OBR ' s report ; the fact that the policy will hit elderly farmer the hard and put food security at risk ; and the fact that rural community will suffer the most , give the impact on tenant and young farmer , and the wide agricultural sector , do the Minister really still believe in this policy ? the OBR ' s allusion yesterday to a degree of uncertainty be exactly the same as what it say at the time of the Budget . the costing be exactly the same as what it publish at the time of the Budget . yesterday , the OBR publish more information about how the costing be arrive at , but the cost itself , the degree of uncertainty and the calculation remain exactly the same as at the time of the Budget . the Minister just mention balance the public finance — those be the key word — through these measure . we have just have the debt figure for December , which be 20 % high than the OBR expect they to be just two month previously . at what point will the Minister and the Government recognise that they have get this badly wrong and change course ? we recognise that when the conservative party be in government , it get it badly wrong . the country decide to change course , which be why they elect we into government to fix the public finance , put our public service back on their foot , boost investment and get the economy grow . they say that one ought to build one ' s enemy a golden bridge . I think the compromise and pause propose by the National Farmers Union be an elegant solution . that golden bridge be now be signpost by Tesco , Aldi , Lidl , the Co - op , and all the major retailer the Minister claim to be engage with . why do he not just pause , go back , listen , and review the policy ? as I set out in answer to a previous question , the Government be commit to deliver the reform announce in the Budget . they be carefully calibrate to retain generous inheritance tax exemption , while ensure that we balance the public finance as fairly as possible . Bence Builders Merchants in my constituency have be provide good local produce and good local job since the Earl of Aberdeen be in power . the owner , Paul Bence , fear that the combination of business property relief change and change to employer ' s national insurance mean that there be a huge disincentive to invest far . do the Minister share my constituent ' s concern ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise his constituent ' s concern . I do not know the specific of the case , but more broadly , investment decision depend above all else on a stable economy and stable public finance . without the hard work that we have do since take office to fix the public finance and bring back economic stability , investment would be hamper , and our growth ambition would not materialise in the way that we be determined to ensure happen . there will be a rally on Saturday , and the Minister appear to imagine that this indicate acclamation for his policy . we hear early in the week from the hon . member for Falkirk ( Euan Stainbank ) and today from the hon . member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West ( Chi Onwurah ) — both well - know rural area — that this be all about the land estate and wealthy people , but I can assure the Minister that the farmer I will speak with in Castle Douglas on Saturday be tenant farmer and family farmer , and they face be put off the land after generation . be he really suggest that I should tell they they have nothing to worry about ? I be not go to tell the hon . Gentleman what he should say to his constituent , but what I can tell he about the Government ' s policy be that we have reserve generous inheritance tax relief for people in the situation he describe . I encourage anyone who be concerned to seek advice , to understand exactly how the new rule might apply to they . sometimes I be absolutely flummoxed — we probably all be — by the Chancellor ' s intent to tax work family farm , which we all know will result in the loss of small farm , the sale of the land and a reduction in food security . now it seem that the OBR agree that it will not make saving . will the Minister commit to meet Cabinet colleague urgently to remove the sword of Damocles that be hang above small family farm and hurt the agrifood sector as a whole ? I say to the Minister that there be a way forward : increase the threshold from £ 1 million to £ 5 million , and family farm will be save . I thank the hon . gentleman for his question , but I think it be base primary on the OBR publication yesterday . I reiterate the point I have make several time now : that OBR publication reiterate the costing and figure set out at the Budget , it reiterate the level of uncertainty associate with the measure , as publish at the Budget , it provide more detail behind that , but the conclusion be the same as it be on 30 October . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . before question the Minister , I should have remind the House of my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . my failure to do so , for which I apologise , be inadvertent — I just get carry away with the excitement of the moment . thank you for that wonderful clarification . Attorney General ' s Office : conflict of Interest ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Solicitor General if she will make a statement on the management of conflict of interest in the Attorney General ' s Office . the Attorney General ' s Office have an established and rigorous process for identify and deal with conflict , and potential conflict , that arise from the Law officer ' past practice . that process predate the appointment of the Attorney General and sit against the backdrop of every lawyer ' s professional obligation to be alert to , and to actively manage , any situation that might give rise to a potential or actual conflict . learn member of this House will keenly appreciate the importance that all lawyer place on that obligation . in identify conflict or potential conflict , the Attorney General ' s Office adopt a cautious and " beyond reproach " threshold to any conflict or potential conflict . my Department work with the Government Legal Department , the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , which oversee international litigation on behalf of the Government , the Crown Prosecution Service and the Serious Fraud Office to revise and augment the list of conflict identify . once the conflict have be ascertain and a set of action identify for each conflict , the Attorney General ' s Office take step to ensure that the Law Officer be appropriately limited in their involvement on matter relate to the relevant area of Government policy or related litigation . the list be keep under review and amend — for example , when new Government policy or litigation emerge . in situation where one Law Officer be conflict , another Law Officer be ask to act in their place . the Law officer ' convention be an important principle — enshrine in " Erskine May " and the ministerial code , and uphold by successive administration — that preserve the ability of Government to receive full and frank legal advice from their legal adviser in confidence . I be therefore unable to comment on the specific detail of legal advice provide by the Law officer , other than to note that of course decision on policy be take by the relevant Secretary of State , as have be the case under successive government . that process sit alongside the system relate to ministerial interest , oversee by the Prime Minister ' s independent adviser on ministerial standard , who be provide with the Attorney General ' s list of conflict follow his appointment . I can reassure the House that the Attorney General ' s Office will continue to apply the most rigorous standard in its conflict process . I call the shadow Solicitor General . thank you for grant this urgent question , Mr Speaker . the Attorney General previously represent former Sinn F é in leader Gerry Adams in a damage claim bring by victim of IRA bombing . indeed , we know that he receive £ 30 , 000 for that representation . the constitutional propriety of our legal system demand absolute clarity on how conflict of interest with former client be manage at the very high level of Government . this go far beyond individual matter of advice ; it strike at the very heart of the proper administration of justice . let I be absolutely clear that this be not about Lord Hermer ' s career at the Bar ; it be about the proper mechanism for recusal when matter concern former client come before Government . the House must know what safeguard be in place to protect the public interest when such situation arise , especially regard section 46 and 47 of the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 . what be the formal procedure for the Attorney General ' s recusal in matter involve former client ? have the Attorney General recuse himself from any matter since take office ? what assessment have be make of potential conflict arise from his extensive litigation against the Government ? [ interruption . ] this all go to the heart of public confidence in our legal system . the Prime Minister stand at the Dispatch Box and promise this House a Government of standard and integrity . [ interruption . ] the proper management of conflict of interest at the high level of the Government Legal Service be not optional ; it be fundamental to that promise — order . please , you have two minute , not three , and we have to stick to the rule . I allow you to go on , but I be not cough for my health ; it be to give you a hint to come to the end of your question . have you now finish ? I have , Mr Speaker . thank you . I call the Solicitor General . I have outline the rigorous process that exist in the Attorney General ' s Office and have exist across administration of all colour . the House may be aware that the shadow Justice Secretary , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , have write to the Cabinet Secretary seek clarity — the clarity to which the shadow Solicitor General refer — on that process and an investigation into it . the Cabinet Secretary have today confirm by reply that the Attorney General ' s Office have a rigorous system in place to ensure that a Law Officer would not be consult on any matter that could give rise to a potential conflict of interest . he have restate that those arrangement be of long standing and part of standard practice that have apply under successive administration . [ interruption . ] I encourage Opposition Members to take comfort from that statement — [ interruption . ] order . [ interruption . ] Solicitor General , when I be stand , you must sit down . Mr Mullan , whether here or elsewhere , I do not want a running commentary from you on everything we debate . do we understand each other ? indicate assent . good , because I have certainly have enough of it . thank you , Mr Speaker . the shadow Solicitor General raise the previous experience of the Attorney General . Lord Hermer be a very experienced barrister , and during his time in private practice — prior to his appointment to Government — he represent high - profile client in a number of case . it be a central and well - understand aspect of the british legal system , as she know , that barrister be require to accept instruction if they be available and qualified to do so — the well - know " cab rank " principle . she will also be very aware that , put simply , barrister be not their client . as the Bar Council state : " barrister do not choose their client , nor do they associate themselves with their client ' opinion or behaviour by virtue of represent they . " in recent day , the Opposition have cynically link the Attorney General with some of his previous client . I grow up on military basis in armed force community in the 1980 , and I remember what it feel like when my dad have to check underneath the car before every single journey we make . I note that because it be the backdrop against which I say that I would defend with every fibre of my be the duty of any barrister in this country , include Lord Hermer , to defend any client before any court , as we all should . I will end by restate the principle in word that I think be particularly powerful : " Don ' t judge a surgeon by their patient , a journalist by their interviewee — or a lawyer by their client . " those be the word of the current conservative shadow Attorney General . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . do the Solicitor General agree that what the shadow Solicitor General be ask she to do , in a not very subtle way , be to breach the Law officer ’ convention by the back door ? if the Attorney General be to reveal whether or not he be able to advise on a particular issue , that would reveal the fact that he have be ask to advise on it . the opposition ' s intention be clear : it be to gain party advantage . the effect be to undermine the rule of law . I very much agree with my hon . friend . I be happy to confirm that where the Attorney General have conflict , he will recuse himself . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the shambolic Conservative Government create a crisis for democracy in this country with their cronyism , rule break and constant sleaze scandal . they even appoint as their Attorney General the right hon . and learn Member for Torridge and Tavistock ( Sir Geoffrey Cox ) , who before his appointment represent some of the world ' s large tax dodger . the Liberal Democrats want to repair the damage that be do by the constant stream of conservative sleaze and finally restore public trust in our politic . I do , however , have some question for the Solicitor General . have the Attorney General seek independent legal advice regard any possible conflict of interest relate to his previous work at Matrix Chambers ? can the Solicitor General assure the House that all and any impropriety will be thoroughly look into , and will she please introduce annual training on conflict of interest and ethic for all Ministers and finally enshrine the ministerial code in law ? order . the hon . Gentleman have mention another Member . I do not think it be critical , and that be fine , but if it be critical — [ hon . member : " it be . " ] just let I finish . if it be critical , I be sure that he will have inform that other Member . I do . you do . there we go — and Members be get all excited . I call the Solicitor General . I be grateful to the hon . member for his question . I have outline the rigorous process that exist in the Attorney General ' s office and , as I say , have exist across administration of all colour . I declare an interest as a member of the Justice Select Committee . do my hon . friend agree that the Opposition ' s position fundamentally misunderstand the role of lawyer in our justice system ? the Attorney General also represent victim of the tragedy in Grenfell Tower . do my hon . Friend also agree that the Attorney General have follow the same process as his predecessor in manage any potential conflict , and that what we be face with be just another example of the Opposition try to undermine our legal institution merely for political gain ? I very much agree with my hon . friend . the undermining of this foundational principle of our legal system have be extremely cynical . section 46 and 47 of the legacy Act enjoy unanimous support in both this House and the other place . it be the Government ' s choice to repeal those section that have raise the question before we today and open up the possibility of compensate Gerry Adams , isn ' t it ? I do not agree , I be afraid . do the Attorney General ' s experience , have serve both as a distinguished advocate and now as a Law Officer , not make he uniquely qualified to uphold the rule of law and advise the Government appropriately ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her question , and it will be no surprise to hear that I very much agree with she . Lord Hermer be an extraordinarily experienced barrister , and he bring that experience to his role as Attorney General . I understand that the Solicitor General want to maintain the confidentiality of the Law officer ’ office , but the issue before we be whether there be a conflict of interest . for example , the Attorney General have advocate in relation to the policy of the israeli Government , and then we have have a change of policy by the Government that have be directly influence by the legal advice that have be give . the challenge be whether that advice have be give on the basis of prejudicial view hold prior to enter the Attorney General ' s Office . I do not expect the Solicitor General to unveil the detail , but she must understand that that be the impression be give . every aspect of transparency and democracy require that the advice give by the Attorney General to the Government be impartial , correct and not prejudiced . the hon . Member will know that the Law officer ’ convention mean that I can not confirm that the Attorney General have advise or whether his advice have be seek on any matter . we be see some extraordinary and absolutely shameless attack , because not only be the Attorney General a barrister of international standing , but as my hon . friend the Member for Wolverhampton West ( Warinder Juss ) say , he represent the victim of Grenfell Tower . do the Solicitor General agree with I that Conservative Members would do well to remember that when they attack the Attorney General about his former client ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her question , and I agree with she . I call Jim Shannon . [ interruption . ] oh , sorry , Mr Speaker . I be so used to be call last . [ laughter . ] my humblest apology . my motivation be clearly justice for the innocent victim ; that be what I be about . at the heart of this urgent question be Gerry Adams . when this House put in place a pension for innocent victim of the trouble and at that time exclude perpetrator from apply , Gerry Adams and his colleague seek to block those pension . Adams ' hand be dripping with innocent blood , not least from when he be the commander of the La Mon bombing , which kill and maim my constituent . will the Attorney General recuse himself from all matter relate to Adams , and will this Government ensure that Adams do not get one single penny ? as I have already state , the Law officer ' convention do not permit I to reveal when the Attorney General have be ask for advice or when he have advise . I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as a member of the Bar . it seem that Conservative Members be deliberately feign ignorance about our constitution to make an empty political point . the truth be that lawyer in this country represent client without fear or favour . we do not in this country associate the view of our client or the client with the view of their lawyer , and there be the concept of the cab rank rule . do the Solicitor General agree with I that the Law officer ’ convention and exist process , which , as she say , have be in place for many year under successive government , can be leave to regulate conflict of interest , as they always have do ? if the conservative genuinely have a problem with that , they would have change it when they be in government . I agree with my hon . friend , and I be grateful to he for make that point . as I say early , barrister be quite simply not their client , and I have quote the word of the current conservative shadow Attorney General . the current Attorney General have a track record of take up multiple case against the British Government . give his previous work with regard to both Gerry Adams and the family of those make claim against UK special force , on which matter will the Attorney General recuse himself from advise Ministers owe to clear conflict of interest ? if he be not able to fulfil the full scope of his role owe to his prior career , be his position even tenable ? I be afraid I could not be more clear : I have already say that where the Attorney General have conflict , he will recuse himself . as someone who grow up in Warrington and who be friend with Tim Parry who be murder by the IRA , I subsequently have to do public affair engagement work in Northern Ireland , so I be well aware of some of the difficulty that can come from the outcome , shall we say , of some of the violence suffer in Northern Ireland . do the Solicitor General agree that " a lawyer should not be identify personally with the cause for which they be argue " ? — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 15 June 2022 ; Vol . 822 , c . 1597 . ] those be not my word ; they belong to the distinguished commercial barrister , the conservative shadow Attorney General . do the Solicitor General agree with I about those word ? I agree wholeheartedly with my hon . friend . under the ministerial code , every Minister have a responsibility to address a conflict of interest or a perception of such an interest . will the Solicitor General be open with the House about whether , when the Attorney General be appoint , he choose or be require to recuse himself from advise on issue relate to his previously represent client such as Gerry Adams ? I have already address that point . do the Minister accept that the Law officer ' convention do not extend to question of recusal or conflict of interest , and that the House and the british people have the right to have question on those matter answer transparently ? I have be abundantly clear on this : where the Attorney General have conflict , he will recuse himself . the Law officer ' convention do not permit I to say in relation to which matter he have recuse himself , because in do so I would reveal the matter that the Law officer have be ask to advise on , or indeed have advise on . like the Solicitor General I also practise as a solicitor . she must know that the question that be be put be not call into question a barrister ' s right to represent client . this be about a barrister who be now the Attorney General . do she accept that the Law officer ' convention be be extend in the interest of the Attorney General not answer legitimate question about recusal and conflict of interest , and that nobody should seek to extend that principle beyond its intention in order to remain silent ? I do not accept that the Law officer ' convention be be extend at all . as I have say , I could not be more clear : where the Attorney General have conflict , he will recuse himself . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we the forthcoming business ? the business for the week commence 27 January include : Monday 27 January — general debate on the creative industry . Tuesday 28 January — remain stage of the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill [ Lords ] . Wednesday 29 January — second reading of the Arbitration Bill [ Lords ] , follow by motion relate to the charter for budget responsibility and the welfare cap . Thursday 30 January — general debate on proportional representation for general election , follow by a general debate on the future of local post office service . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 31 January — the House will not be sit . the provisional business for the week commence 3 February will include : Monday 3 February — Second reading of the Public Authorities ( Fraud , Error and Recovery ) Bill . Tuesday 4 February — motion to approve the draft Social Security benefit up - rate order 2025 and the draft Guaranteed Minimum Pensions Increase Order 2025 . Wednesday 5 February — motion relate to the police grant and local government finance report . Thursday 6 February — business to be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 7 February — the House will not be sit . over the past few month , the Labour party have be generous indeed in offer the people of this country regular evidence of its remarkable incompetence , but even by its formidable standard it have excel itself this week . the Prime Minister say some time ago in term that he prefer Davos to Westminster , but this week he have leave the global hobnobbing and apr è s - ski of the World Economic Forum to the Chancellor of the Exchequer to assist she in her relentless search for growth . her late idea be to revive the third runway at Heathrow : a project so toxic to her Labour colleague that it have be brief against by the Energy Secretary and publicly reject by the Mayor of London before it be even preannounce . as so often , I be afraid we will have to wait for the announcement to be make in this House . meanwhile , the Chancellor ' s wizard wheeze of the autumn to set up a new Office for Value for Money be publicly rubbish in the most unsparing term by the Chair of the Treasury Committee , the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) , who describe it as " an understaffed , poorly define organisation … set up with a vague remit and no clear plan to measure its effectiveness . " that be from the Chancellor ' s own Labour colleague . spending review be always fraught , and this one will be still more so , because the Chancellor have box herself in so badly on taxis and spending . what the Government think will be achieve by a couple of dozen hastily assemble newbie and some adolescent management consultant run around — apart from make thing even bad — be hard to imagine . in case we forget , Mr Speaker , you and I and everyone else in the Chamber — indeed , every taxpayer — be pay for that . then we have no less a figure than the director of the Institute for Fiscal Studies weigh in . he note that the Government have do nothing but talk about growth ever since the last general election . he then note : " at the same time , we have see the imposition of additional employment regulation , further regulation of rental housing , a hike in stamp duty , a big increase in tax on employer , an inflation - bust rise in the minimum wage , a refusal to contemplate any serious liberalisation of trade or free movement … and , perhaps , a clampdown on immigration . " he ask : " what be this government ' s ' theory of growth ' ? " he then answer his own question : " nobody know " . those be just three example of the Government ' s absolute lack of seriousness in economic , but , as we have just hear in the urgent question , there be a serious issue in the area of law that they can not avoid . let I remind the House what have happen . the Attorney General have be repeatedly ask whether he have or have have a conflict of interest in relation to legal matter that could affect his former client , Gerry Adams . in response , a spokesman for the Prime Minister have highlight system to prevent potential conflict from arise . the Attorney General have cite the convention that Law officer do not discuss their advice to Ministers and have disclaim any connection between his work for Mr Adams and the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 . as the Solicitor General have just say , the standard that they be aspire to be to be beyond reproach . the problem be that none of that address whether the Attorney General in fact recuse himself . this do not fall either within the Law officer ’ convention or the cab rank principle . he either do recuse himself or he do not . the problem be make bad when one reflect that this Attorney General be the first in the history of the office to have come into Government directly from private practice — that point be completely ignore in the urgent question — and that that practice be not in one of the less political area of law such as corporate law or chancery but squarely in the highly contentious and political area of human right , with some of it in Northern Ireland . there be no reason whatever in law or ministerial practice why the Attorney General should not be transparent on this issue , as he have be already in relation to the legacy Act . there be a strong public interest in he do so . his legacy comment prove that he concede the point about the importance of clarity in this area . in the independent adviser on ministerial standard ' recent letter regard the former anti - corruption Minister , the hon . member for Hampstead and Highgate ( Tulip Siddiq ) , he highlight that the ministerial code say : " Ministers … must ensure that no conflict … could reasonably be perceive to arise , between their public duty and their private interest " . that conflict clearly exist now in relation to the Attorney General . do the Leader of the House share my view that we should have a debate on the standard to be apply in these complex case where there be a potential conflict between the demand of the ministerial code and the statement make by the Government in defence of the Law Officer concern ? I be sure that the thought of the whole House and the country will again be with the family of Bebe , Elsie and Alice , the two teacher , the neighbour and all the child who attend the Taylor Swift dance class in Southport , after the horrific attack and murder last summer . what they face be truly unimaginable . this tragedy be make all the bad by the fact that it could have be prevent , as the Home Secretary say this week . the House will be aware that the Government be pursue a number of action in response : an independent public inquiry that will leave no stone unturned , an end - to - end review of Prevent , strong measure to tackle online knife sale and knife crime , and a quick piece of work on the limitation of the current definition of terrorism . I will ensure that the House be keep up to date on those and relate matter . the right hon . Gentleman raise issue of standard in public life . as I gently remind he last week , he may not want to draw on the record of the Conservative Government and compare it with our . but he raise some important question , which have just be answer in the urgent question . as he will know , the Cabinet Secretary reply to the shadow Justice Secretary that the Attorney General have properly declare his interest from his previous role as a senior barrister . as a barrister with a wide - range legal practice , the Attorney General will have represent many client . accord to Bar association rule , barrister do not choose their client , nor do they associate themselves with their client ' opinion or behaviour by virtue of represent they . the Cabinet Secretary have explain that as well as the declaration process for all Ministers , the Attorney General ' s Office have a rigorous system in place to ensure that a Law Officer would not be consult on any matter that could give rise to a potential conflict of interest . the right hon . Gentleman will know that these arrangement be long - stand and have be practise in successive administration . I be not sure whether he be argue that we should no long have an Attorney General who have be recently involve in private practice at the high level — perhaps he will let we know . today be actually a very special day — perhaps a historic day — because it be the last day that the former Prime Minister could have call a general election . oh , how different thing could have be . the Conservatives would have still be on this side of the House , with three time as many member as they have now . the right hon . Gentleman would still be enjoy himself on the Back Benches , and the House would not have the delightful presence of the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) and for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) . instead , we be six month into a Labour Government . I be sure the Conservatives regret call the general election early , but I be afraid the country do not . let we imagine for a moment what the country would be face today : doctor still on strike , make the NHS winter crisis even worse ; public service face huge cut due to the Conservatives ' economic plan ; waiting list ever grow , leave people sick and out of work ; the hospital building programme still on the never - never ; the asylum backlog rise with no plan to get it down ; more and more council go bust ; more train be cancel than run ; and the black hole in the public finance still go . let we not even imagine what would be happen with our prison . the country would be on its knee , with living standard fall , Britain an embarrassment around the world and politic in the doldrum . thankfully , the former Prime Minister make a big misjudgment for the Tory party but a good decision for the country . he call the election early because he want out . we have not be able to put everything right immediately — the problem run too deep — but we have make a lot of progress . we have end the doctor strike and put record investment into the NHS . we have reset our international relationship , restore Britain as a global leader . we have tackle the asylum backlog and achieve record number of return . we be give worker security and dignity . we be turbocharge house building , with new , ambitious target . we be work towards energy security with low bill and GB Energy . train be now run in the interest of passenger . the right hon . Gentleman might be sorry that he be now sit on the Opposition Benches , his party still lick its wound , but the country be get the change it vote for . my constituent Mandy and Bernie , along with many other homeowner in Bury North , be face serious issue with Residential Management Group . despite dutifully pay their service charge , resident of Wharfside Apartments and Broad Oak have be hit with additional fee and alarming practice that equate to neglect and exploitation : overprice , sudden price change , premature bailiff action and non - compliance with fire safety and accessibility standard , to name just a few . this be not an isolated case ; some 70 member of this House have constituent across the country face the same level of activity by rogue management company . will my right hon . friend assure my constituent that under Labour , these unscrupulous practice will be tackle , and will she provide time in the House for a debate on this urgent matter ? as ever , my hon . friend raise important issue to his constituent . I be another of those member with a high caseload of these issue . as he will know , the Government be commit to ensure that homeowner be protect from abuse and poor service at the hand of unscrupulous manage agent , which be why we will be bring forward a draft leasehold reform Bill later in the Session . I will ensure the House be update on its progress . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I echo the word of the Leader of the House on the Southport attack . may I take this opportunity to welcome the ceasefire in Gaza ? many of my constituent have contact I about the conflict , and I know it will be a comfort to they to know that bomb be no long fall in that part of the world — long may the peace last . at the beginning of January , the Care Quality Commission publish a report into the maternity service at Broomfield hospital , which serve my constituency . worryingly , it downgrade the service from " require improvement " to " inadequate " . a few day ago , the CQC publish two more report about maternity service at the two other major hospital run by the Mid and South Essex NHS foundation trust , Basildon and Southend , which be both rate " require improvement " . this be understandably concern to my constituent , who be serve by all three hospital . when I visit Broomfield ' s maternity service a couple of week ago , I be pleased to see encourage sign of improvement , so I hope my constituent will take some comfort from that . it be worth note that the CQC ' s report in all three case be base on assessment carry out in March 2024 . do the Leader of the House think it be acceptable for the CQC to take such a long time to report its finding on service that be obviously struggle , and will she grant Government time for a debate to discuss whether the CQC need well resource and support to carry out its important duty ? I thank the hon . Lady for her comment on the ceasefire in Israel and Gaza ; since we last speak of it last week , it have seem to be hold to some degree , which be very welcome . I also thank she for yet again raise an issue of such importance to not only her constituent , but those of many member across the House . too many woman be not receive the maternity care that they deserve . I be really sorry to hear about the particular case she raise , but I be glad there be now sign of improvement in her local service . many patient rely on assessment by the CQC to make decision about their care . the independent Dash review of the CQC highlight serious failing with the watchdog , and the Health Secretary recently say that it be not fit for purpose . the Government be determined to take action so that people can feel the confidence in the service that they need . we be press the CQC to raise standard and deliver significant performance improvement . last week , the chief exec and the chair of the CQC be question by the Health and Social Care Committee . I will ensure that the House be continually update on these important matter . last week , I visit Briarwood , an acute dementia care facility run by mental health charity Everyturn in Blaydon . Everyturn run a wide range of mental health service , include its safe haven , which be open for anyone to start receive mental health support just by walk in off the street . today , one open at George Street Social in Newcastle , serve Tyneside . will my right hon . friend join I in congratulate the charity on open this hub , which will provide support to so many people , and can we have a debate in Government time on how to make mental health support easily accessible in our community ? I be pleased to join my hon . friend in congratulate the Everyturn charity on all the outstanding work it do to support those with mental health issue and dementia in her constituency . she will know that the Mental Health Bill be currently make its way in the House of Lords . it will be a very good opportunity to debate these issue far when it come to this place . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . in addition to the business announce by the Leader of the House on Backbench Business Committee time , on 6 February in the Chamber there will be a on Government support for coalfield community , follow by the debate on financial education that be due to take place on Monday but time do not allow . the business in Westminster Hall agree by the Backbench Business Committee be as follow : on Tuesday 28 January , there will be a debate on road safety for young driver . on Thursday 30 January , there will be a debate on medicinal cannabis , follow by a debate on a subject we will announce very shortly . on 4 February , there will be a debate on National Apprenticeship Week . on Thursday 6 February , there will be a debate on improve rail service with open access operator , follow by a debate on debt cancellation for low - income country . with Mr Speaker ' s permission , on Tuesday 11 February there will be a debate on the cost of energy . I ask the Leader of the House to advise we , at early notice , of the date for estimate day debate . on Sunday , many of my constituent gather and pay for a screening of the film " emergency " in the Harrow Vue cinema . at about 30 or 40 minute into the screening of the film , mask Khalistani terrorist burst in , threaten member of the audience and force the screening to end . I understand that similar disruption take place in Wolverhampton , Birmingham , Slough , Staines and Manchester . as a result , vue cinema and Cineworld have pull the film from be screen . the film be very controversial , and I be not comment on its quality or content , but I defend the right of my constituent and other Members ' constituent to be able to view it and make a decision on it . it cover the period when Indira Gandhi be the Prime Minister of India . it be very controversial and there be certain view that it be an anti - sikh film , but our constituent should be able to see the film and judge for themselves , and not be threaten by thug who want to disrupt democratic opportunity to see public film . may we have a statement from the Home Secretary next week on what will be do to ensure that people who want to see such film , which have be pass by censor , can do so in peace and harmony ? I absolutely defend the right of people to demonstrate outside cinema , but not to disrupt viewing . first of all , I thank the hon . Gentleman for announce forthcoming Backbench Business Committee slot , which will be of great interest to the House . the hon . Gentleman raise a very important matter about the relationship between free speech and the right to protest peacefully , and the ability of people to go about their activity freely whatever they choose to do , whether that be see a film which , as he say , have be agree by the censor and all those who look at those issue . I will certainly ensure that he and the whole House get an update on the very important matter he raise . research from the Centre for Cities show that the average wage in the north - east be £ 17 , 000 per annum less than here in London , and the gap be likely to be much high than that in constituency like mine . may we have a debate in Government time to discuss how the Labour Government will bridge that staggering gap and ensure that there be good , well - pay , secure job in the north - east of England ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that issue . he be absolutely right that the key reason why we have suffer in this country , over the last 14 year in particular , from stagnant growth and fall living standard be that we have widespread regional inequality . we have poor productivity , we do not have the high level of skill that we need , and we have deep - seat health inequality , which also affect people ' s ability to work and earn the wage they deserve . that be why this Government have an agenda to ensure that we get the growth the country need — growth that be share around the country , be sustainable and be underpin by a healthy , highly - skilled , productive economy — and that the new job of the future be find in his constituency and other part of the country that deserve to get they . I thank the Leader of the House for her statement . Lib Dem - control Dorset council be propose to introduce night - time car parking charge . that would have a devastating impact on the market town of Verwood , Blandford Forum , Gillingham , Shaftesbury and Sturminster Newton in my constituency , bring into doubt the viability of many business provide entertainment and hospitality service . will the Leader of the House join I in condemn the proposal to introduce these charge , and will she find Government time for a debate on how Government policy and other policy can support rural market town and their local economy ? as someone who represent a city centre , I can assure the hon . member that I be well aware of the issue around car parking charge and the public attention they give rise to . he be right that charge have to be bring in while balance the need of independent shop and the hospitality sector in the area . I be sure the local authority have hear his question , but I will ensure that he get a ministerial response about the matter . last week , a broken main water pipe in my constituency leave 40 , 000 people without water . the engineer work really hard to fix the repair in challenge circumstance , but despite an incredible community response , too many people face an unacceptable wait for bottled water . we need to get much well at identify vulnerable people in emergency situation , use the information that we already hold across various Government Departments . will the Leader of the House ask the relevant Ministers to meet I to discuss how we can well use datum to improve our response during emergency such as this ? first , I thank my hon . friend for the fantastic job she do when she step in as my parliamentary private Secretary in an emergency last week ; I could not have get through business question without her great support . I know that she have be raise the issue of last week ' s water outage strongly for her constituent , and my sympathy go to they . she will know that it be the responsibility of water company to manage such disruption . they do not do that well in many case , and that be why we have bring in the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill , which will drive meaningful improvement in the water industry . the Cabinet Office will soon issue guidance about how to well respond to these local emergency , and I will ensure that she get the meeting she have ask for . the EU offer the UK a youth mobility scheme that would give the invaluable opportunity for our young people to live , work and love across our continent . it be reject out of hand . since then , the EU have offer a custom arrangement for the UK Government , which again have be reject out of hand . can we have a debate about how the EU reset be go , and will the Leader of the House confirm that we be forever doom to this chaotic and self - defeat hard Brexit ? as the hon . Member will know , we have be absolutely clear that there will be no return to the single market , the customs union or freedom of movement , and we have no plan for a youth mobility scheme . that be because we feel that we can make great progress in reset our relationship with the European Union , which be under way , and that the country do not need further disruption in this area but need we to make sure we get the trade agreement and the relationship with the EU that will get well outcome for those in Scotland and elsewhere . in South Derbyshire , we have an incinerator in Drakelow . just outside my patch , in neighbour Derby , there be an incinerator in Sinfin . despite that , there have be an application to build another incinerator 9 mile from the one in Sinfin and just 4 . 8 mile from the one in Drakelow . it have already be reject by both the district and county council and , most importantly , by my constituent . community against the Swadlincote Incinerator be a data - drive and fact - base campaign lead by Dr Tracey Wond . it be not just that we do not want the incinerator ; give the number , we do not need it , especially as it would not be significant infrastructure of national importance and the Government be seek to reduce waste . will the Leader of the House please consider have a debate in Government time on where we should agree to build new incinerator ? there be certainly no sense in build another one in South Derbyshire . I think this be my hon . friend ' s first business question , and she be a fantastic new MP for South Derbyshire who be yet again raise an issue of concern for her constituent . she will know that the Government be commit to deliver a package of reform to transition to a circular economy , which will dramatically reduce our reliance on waste incineration . we will back new waste incineration project only where they meet strict new condition , which we recently set out . this issue get raise many time in business question , and I can see that the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee be still in his place . my hon . friend should get together with other colleague and try to secure a broad debate on the matter . will the Leader of the House allow time for a debate on the importance of volunteering , to celebrate community spirit ? Coldstream community council recently host a senior citizen ' Christmas party in the town ' s community centre . over 100 local resident enjoy a belate Christmas meal and entertainment , but it would not have happen have it not be for the hard work of the volunteer . will the Leader of the House join I in thank Fiona Shepherd , the community council and the team from Presenting Coldstream for make that event happen , and for everything they do to support the Coldstream community ? I absolutely will join the hon . gentleman in congratulate those people and organisation from his constituency — Coldstream community council , Fiona Shepherd and other . the Christmas lunch sound like a wonderful way of bring people together . the hon . Gentleman attend these session regularly , and I be wait for an invitation to his constituency to see the great thing that he often describe . he have highlight another one today . my constituent in Brent East work extremely hard , and some be able to purchase a smartphone . yesterday , we hear from the Met that an estimate 64 , 000 phone be steal across London in 2023 ; I think one mobile phone be steal every four minute in Westminster . the Met and the Mayor of London be work together to combat the escalation , but more work be need , especially with provider such as Apple and Google . will the Leader of the House please consider have a debate in Government time to discuss this important issue ? my hon . friend raise a really important matter . mobile phone theft can be incredibly traumatic , and it be a really bad problem for not just the individual who face it , but society as a whole . antisocial behaviour chip away at community ' sense of confidence and pride , which be why this Government be take strong action to stop antisocial behaviour by bring in respect order and a number of other measure . I will ensure that the relevant Minister give she a full response on this matter , and I be sure that it would make a very good topic for a debate . many of our professional , include doctor , teacher and police officer , be struggle with recruitment and retention . they all serve our community with dedication and selflessness , and we rely on they , but they be affect by the rule relate to their pension . in the case of doctor , it be cost they money to work additional hour for the NHS . in the case of long - stand teacher and police officer , change to their pension partway through employment can mean that they owe money or be trap and unable to claim pension , due to legislative change . will the Leader of the House agree to have a debate in Government time on public sector pension ? the hon . Lady will know that the issue of public sector pension , and the disincentive that often apply to those in senior role , have be a matter of debate over recent year . I understand that most of the issue have be resolve , but I will certainly get an update for she . if there be matter that still need wide discussion , I will ensure that the House be make aware of they . my neighbour in Ilford South and I be concerned about report of democratic backsliding and human right abuse in Pakistan . report of female political candidate be harass and intimidate to get they to stand down , male candidate be imprison , journalist go miss and protester lose their life have sadly become the norm . Pakistan be a human right priority country for the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , which be commit to ensure human right , democracy and the rule of the law in Pakistan . do the Leader of the House agree that we must continue to work towards guarantee the right of all people in Pakistan ? can we have Government time for a debate on this important issue ? the Government urge Pakistan to uphold its international obligation and human right . my hon . friend may be aware that the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , visit Pakistan in November and highlight our concern about the need for it to uphold its democratic value in relation to protest and military court , and to uphold its fundamental function . we continue to urge Pakistan to address concern about the fairness of the February 2024 election and to uphold its obligation under international law . I will ensure that the House be keep update on these important matter . reply to my parliamentary question be often late . they be often evasive and often refer to website that be infrequently update , and sometimes they be even overtly political . I know that the Leader of the House care passionately about improve performance in this area , so will she make a statement to update the House on how she be work to get well response from Departments to parliamentary question ? the hon . Lady be right that I take these issue incredibly seriously . the House and its member have a right to timely , proper and full reply to parliamentary question . I regularly remind member of the Cabinet about their duty in this regard , and I write to they recently . the hon . Lady will know that the Procedure Committee also take seriously its responsibility for monitor the timeliness of reply to parliamentary question . we have see a dramatic increase in the number of write parliamentary question table since the general election , but that be no excuse for what she describe . I encourage she and any other Member to let I know when they receive a particularly poor or late reply to a parliamentary question . last week , I visit Leeds City college at the invitation of University and College Union rep , and I hear about the great work they do on campus across the city , include at Temple Newsam in my constituency , in very challenging circumstance . can we have a debate in Government time on the importance of the further education sector ? alongside the UCU ' s demand for the restoration of national pay bargaining , it be important that the FE sector be not see as a poor relation of the high education sector . the FE sector do a vital job for people in our community , as well as for our economy and our infrastructure as a whole . the hon . member be right that the further education sector do an immense job in ensure that this country ' s young people have the skill , the ambition and the pathway to get into the great job of both the future and today . historically , further education have often be see as a Cinderella sector , but that be not this Government ' s view , which be why we give a record settlement to the FE sector in the recent Budget . we have education question come up at the end of January , but I be sure this would also make a good topic for a debate . John Cross , a Bromsgrove pharmacist who believe in the importance of vaccine , take his own life after suffer paralyse complication after receive the covid vaccine . John ' s widow Christine and their child have be campaign for justice in his memory , include seek compensation from the vaccine damage payment scheme . unfortunately , their claim have be reject . do the Leader of the House agree that we should have a debate on the Floor of the House about the vaccine damage payment scheme in relation to covid vaccine ? will she assist I in broker a meeting between the Cross family and the Health Secretary ? I be really sorry to hear of what happen to John Cross and all that his family must be go through subsequently , as well as their challenge in get the compensation they deserve . I will certainly arrange for a ministerial response and a ministerial meeting with the family . my constituency be among the UK ' s bad hotspot for death link to a cancer cause by exposure to asbestos at work , with 344 death since 1980 . indeed , in the last five year 16 man and five woman have die from cancer cause by exposure to asbestos . the Labour Government pass the Compensation Act 2006 to make it easy for people diagnose with mesothelioma to claim full compensation , with the need to find just one negligent employer rather than they all . however , the Act do not apply to those suffer from asbestos - relate lung cancer . will the Leader of the House arrange for an urgent debate in Government time to address that injustice and help deliver full and fair compensation for all those who be not protect from asbestos exposure at work ? I thank my hon . friend greatly for raise the issue of those who have be expose to asbestos and those suffer from mesothelioma , which be now come through strongly . in previous Parliaments we have a number of hon . member who strongly lead on those issue . they be no long in the House , so I encourage my hon . friend to become a parliamentarian leader in order to get the debate and continue to raise those issue , as I will now do on his behalf with Ministers , to ensure that we get further action . I declare my interest as a governor of the Royal Berkshire hospital and as have a family member with share in a medical company . my constituent be heartbroken by the Government ' s decision to push the start date of the Royal Berks ' s reconstruction to 2037 . that decision will disappoint many patient and staff . there be a £ 400 million total of maintenance backlog , statutory improvement and other capital expenditure that the Royal Berkshire hospital require over the next 10 year . will the Leader of the House ensure that there be future opportunity , in Government time , to debate the progress of the campaign so that maintenance issue cause by the delay to the rebuild can be raise ? I recognise that the hon . Gentleman and his constituent will be disappoint with what be happen to his local hospital . however , I be sure that he will recognise that the previous Government ' s commitment to 40 new hospital be not fund , there be no timeline and they be on the never - never . that be why this Government have have to take the decision to be completely honest with people and to have a programme that we think be deliverable and that there be money for . that , unfortunately , mean that the timeline for some hospital be long than the fictional one they be previously present with . the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care give a lengthy statement on the matter early this week , and I know that he will want to keep the House strongly update on these issue . I have a 13 - year - old constituent who suffer with Duchenne muscular dystrophy , a muscle - waste disease that he be diagnose with at age 11 , which be very late , due to what be call a spontaneous mutation . none the less , the condition have progress rapidly . there be medication — givinostat — that can delay the advancement of the illness . it be be make available free to the NHS , but the hospital that want to use it on their patient need some financial assistance to roll it out as part of an early access programme . may we have a statement from the Department of Health and Social Care on the issue , so that we can make representation on behalf of our constituent who suffer with Duchenne ? I thank my hon . friend for raise Duchenne and the much - need treatment that his constituent need . I be pleased to hear that the treatment be be make available to the NHS for free , but I hear what he say about hospital be able to access it speedily so that his constituent can get it . I will absolutely ensure that the relevant Minister have hear his question today and , if a response be not to my hon . friend ' s like , I will help he to secure some time on that . I have intend to raise today the appalling decision of the Planning Inspectorate to allow a battery energy storage system on Chapel Lane in my constituency , and to ask for a debate . however , just this morning I receive the deeply disappointing and disturbing news of the closure of Aldridge police station . how on earth be that decision by the Labour police and crime commissioner compatible with the Prime Minister ' s state intention of strengthen neighbourhood police ? I be sorry to hear of the closure of a police station , but the right hon . Lady will know that we be absolutely strengthen neighbourhood police . we be put 13 , 000 extra neighbourhood police officer on the frontline . part of the way we be fund that be by ensure that we be deliver service efficiently and effectively in local area . I will get she a response on that , and I look forward to her raise in future the local battery storage unit in her constituency . this weekend , I will be take part in a run with people from Active Fusion — [ interruption . ] Don ' t sound so surprised . active Fusion be a charity in my constituency that work with education , charity and community provider to help deliver physical education activity for young people across Doncaster . will the Leader of the House join I in celebrate the fantastic work do by Active Fusion , and will she make time for a debate on how the Government can well support charity and organisation to deliver mental and physical health activity for young people who so desperately need it ? I wish my hon . friend luck on her run — I be glad that she do not ask I to join she , because that be not something the public be quite ready for yet . she be absolutely right that it be the many voluntary organisation such as Active Fusion that do the vital work of make sure that young people and other remain active , fit and healthy , and that they be give fun way to do that . that be vital for the future health of the nation . and these organisation often do all of this work as volunteer , or for free . ambulance crew strive every day to provide the very good care for their patient , but ambulance be not arrive to the most serious emergency quickly enough . an 89 - year - old Somerton constituent recently have a fall at home and be leave lie on the floor in agony for 10 hour . sadly , that be all too common , as South Western Ambulance Service have among the bad record for wait time across the UK . may we have a debate in Government time on ambulance wait time in Somerset ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right . ambulance wait time , which be closely link to A & E wait time , which in turn be closely link to what be happen in many of our hospital , be the big legacy in the nhs that this Government have inherit . there be no great symptom of an NHS in crisis than the unacceptably long wait time that she describe . that be why we have put record investment into the NHS this year , and we will continue to prioritise the NHS in further spending round . we want to get A & E and ambulance wait time right down , because these wait be completely unacceptable and be put life at risk . in the Hillhead , Waterside , Harestanes and , in particular , Twechar part of my constituency , the issue of bus — or , more accurately , the lack of they — be continually be raise with I . my constituent can not get access to local service , whether it be go to the bank or go to church . they need to change bus and wait for up to an hour for a connect service — that be if the connect service ever turn up . I wish to request a debate in Government time on the need for bus service in local community . my hon . friend be absolutely right . that be why we be introduce the Bus Services Bill , which be currently make its way through the Lords . she will know that in Scotland , under the Scottish National party , bus route have be almost halve since 2006 , and local authority franchising have be delay for five year , which have be fail community . however , as a result of our Budget , the Scottish Government will receive their large settlement , in real term , of any time since devolution . this must now be use by Scotland to put in place the bus service and other service that her constituent so desperately need . despite state in 2021 that it be in " strong financial health " , Labour - control Bradford council now want to put up council tax for my constituent by a whopping 15 % . this be a shocking situation , result from continuous mismanagement by our council leader , who have splash million of pound of taxpayer ' money on Bradford city centre project , include £ 50 million on a music venue that be finish but not yet open , despite our city of culture status . all the while , the council have let child ' s service degrade to an unacceptable level , despite the last Conservative Government step in and issue it a bail - out just last year . may we have an urgent debate in Government time on how to stop local people across Keighley , Ilkley , Silsden , the Worth valley and my wide constituency pay the price for Bradford council leader ’ failure ? I have to gently say to the hon . Gentleman that the failure be under the previous Conservative Government , who leave local government on its knee , with year of austerity move money away from area of high need , such as his Bradford constituency , to area of low need . he will know that the cost of child ' s service have go up and up in recent year , with a huge rise in demand , but central Government fail to provide any of the funding or support that local authority need to get a grip of the situation . that be why we introduce our child ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill — a Bill that I think he vote against the other week — which will begin to address some of the chronic cost for local authority in provide child ' s service . it be also why the Government be put local government finance back on an even keel and ensure that we deliver on the basis of need , not of politic . yesterday I receive one of the good email that I have receive since become a Member of Parliament . it come from my constituent Gareth Stewart and relate to his son Hugo , who have finally secure a place at the Royal School for the Deaf in Derby . Hugo be deafblind , and it take two year for his parent to secure an education , health and care plan for he . it have to go to tribunal because it be consistently block . even though the school have agree to Hugo ' s place , ready for September , the county council continue to fight his parent , so the resolution come only yesterday . I have speak to Gareth several time about his case , because it be so serious . he be content with I raise it on the Floor of the House on the condition that , in his word , I use it to speak about the wide problem that we have in Staffordshire with the special educational need and disability system . too many parent face the same challenge . they often use the phrase " delay tactic " to I regard the need to go to tribunal , and the consistent argument at every step of the process . will the Leader of the House update we on her discussion with Cabinet colleague about introduce a Bill to fix our broken SEND system , and will she bring forward a debate on the shocking number of wrongful council decision on SEND support that end up be overturn at tribunal ? receive that email from Gareth Stewart about his son ' s place at the Royal School for the Deaf be an early reminder for my hon . friend of how fulfil the job of be a Member of Parliament can be ; it do not happen all that often , but hopefully it will happen often in his case . he and his constituent be right to raise the chronic challenge face by our special educational need system , which a recent National Audit Office report find be at the point of crisis . cost and demand be rise , yet outcome continue to fall . this really be a broken system , and the Government be commit to address that . as an initial step , we put an extra £ 1 billion into SEND in the recent Budget . there have already be seven debate in this Session on SEND , which reflect the great importance of these matter to the House . I will ensure that the House be constantly update on our plan . from Bude to Bodmin , and across my constituency , my constituent express their anger at have to pay astronomical fee to property management company that provide little to no service . will the Leader of the House grant a debate in Government time on the right of freeholder to challenge fee through arbitration and other dispute resolution mechanism when service be simply not deliver ? the hon . Gentleman be right : unscrupulous manage agent be a plague for many leaseholder and homeowner in this country . my hon . friend the Member for Bury North ( Mr Frith ) also raise this matter , which suggest a good potential cross - party application to the Backbench Business Committee . the Government be commit to tackle the scourge of unscrupulous manage agent and put power back in the hand of leaseholder . that be why we will publish a draft leasehold reform Bill later this year . at the request of several of my constituent in Wolverhampton West , this morning I attend a National Autistic Society event about the constant fight that autistic people face for support across health — include mental health — social care , education and employment . what strike I be the general ignorance about autism and what autistic people require . will the Leader of the House please agree to a general debate in Government time about autism and the inequality face by autistic people , to ensure that early diagnosis and support for those who be autistic be a policy priority for the Government ? absolutely . this be an important issue , and the Government want autistic people to succeed in all aspect of their life . the Government provide £ 4 . 3 million this financial year to improve service for autistic child , but clearly much more need to be do , and do well and fast . I think that it would make an extremely good topic for a debate . this week , we see the tragic murder of Leo Ross , who be just 12 year old . two week ago , 14 - year - old Kelyan Bokassa be also murder . the fatal stabbing of a child have become an all - too - familiar occurrence . the number of teenager murder by knife have double in the past decade . teenager be twice as likely to be fatally stab as any other demographic . the Government have pledge to halve knife crime , legislate to ban zombie knife , but they account for only 3 . 6 % of murder involve a knife . kitchen knife account for over 52 . 6 % , and everybody have access to a drawer full of those in their own home . we desperately need a conversation about the root cause of knife crime , why the situation be now bad than ever , and why our child be , shockingly , prepare to kill other child — why they find it so easy to take a life . will the Leader of the House make time in the parliamentary schedule to discuss the cause of knife crime ? I echo the hon . Gentleman ' s remark about yesterday ' s awful news of the stabbing and murder of Leo Ross , who be just 12 year old , in the west midland . I have a child that age , as will , I be sure , many of the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent and other watch . the Government be commit to halve knife crime over the next decade . that be an incredibly ambitious agenda , which drive much of our activity in this space . in September , the Prime Minister bring together a coalition in no . 10 Downing Street to tackle knife crime . we have take very quick action to ban zombie knife and dangerous ninja sword . further measure will be introduce in the Policing and Crime Bill later this year , but the hon . Gentleman be right that it will take a strategic , holistic , wide approach that also look at preventive measure , education and youth service , and bring all the player in our community together , to tackle the scourge of knife crime . I be disappoint to hear of plan to close the Old Chainyard pub in Coseley in my constituency to make way for yet another convenience store . will the Leader of the House give her support to campaigner in Coseley fight the closure of their local , and will the Government make time for a debate on the vital role of local pub in local community ? local pub play an absolutely vital role in local community as a social hub , gather place , centre point and focal point for community get - together . this government support our local pub . that be one of the reason why we reduce alcohol duty on draught product in the recent Budget , and it be also why we be commit to the regeneration and support of our town centre and high street . that would make an extremely good topic for a debate , and I look forward to she raise it . my train get cancel on my commute home last night from Waterloo to Sunbury , but that give I the wonderful opportunity to catch up on one of my favourite radio programme — that of Mr Matt Chorley on BBC Radio 5 live . my joy be only increase when I have the opportunity to listen to a rare interview give by the Leader of the House , during which she say , " we be not go for the sugar rush of quick growth " . give that since the Government be elect the economy have not grow at all , could I on behalf of the people of Spelthorne congratulate she on her mastery of understatement and ask she what sort of growth she be go for and when it will come ? I thank the hon . gentleman for listen to my interview . I would not say that it be that rare an interview , and obviously I be in the House once a week be fully accountable to he and colleague for all my comment , which I happily do today . I think the hon . Gentleman be the constituency successor to the Chancellor who crash the economy — be that right ? maybe not ; maybe I will get a letter ask I to desist from say that ever again . I congratulate the hon . gentleman on replace the former Chancellor ; I be sure he be well . this Government want sustainable , long - term , productive , high - skill , high - wage growth with an economy that be healthy . the challenge we have inherit be so deep and profound , which be why it be take time to turn the oil tanker around , as the hon . Gentleman will know . his government ' s record of living standard fall for the very first time in our history over the course of the previous Parliament be perhaps a record he should reflect on more before he raise it with I . in my surgery in Drighlington , I meet a constituent who have be suffer terribly as a result of mesh implant . despite have multiple surgery to remove they , she still suffer with long - term health consequence and now have cancer in the affected area , which she attribute to the mesh implant . my hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) host a Westminster Hall debate on the matter in December , but those affect be still wait for justice and an answer . will the Leader of the House consider hold a debate in the Chamber in Government time on the urgent need to support those suffer with long - term health consequence as a result of mesh implant ? I thank my hon . friend for raise the matter . last month ' s debate be an opportunity to hear those powerful testimony , and I commend he and the campaigner for continue to raise this important issue , which be a live one in the last Parliament as well . the Government be carefully consider the work do by the Patient Safety Commissioner and the result Hughes report , and I will ensure that the House be update at the early opportunity on the Government ' s reflection . I encourage he to apply for a Backbench Business debate on the Floor of the House on those important matter , because I know they would be well attend . a year ago today , the former mps Theresa May and Sir George Howarth launch their inquiry report into type 1 diabete and disorder eat . the report make a number of recommendation to ensure the funding and continuation of the T1DE pilot service that have be start around the country . since then , two service have shut down , in London and on the south coast in Bournemouth , and the remain five pilot site , include in the Humber and North Yorkshire , be set to run out of funding in March . if that happen , vulnerable patient will be put at risk . will the Leader of the House allow a debate in Government time on this issue as a matter of urgency ? I join the hon . member in pay tribute to the former Prime Minister and , I think , former Leader of the House on their campaigning on type 1 diabetes . he be absolutely right that ensure we have community - lead preventive service for type 1 diabete and other infection or disease be the focus of this Government , and that be absolutely as it should be . I will ensure that he get a ministerial response about the closing of those service , what have cause that and what plan the Government have to take that forward , and I will ensure that he be update . last weekend , I have the pleasure of meet the Friends of Doncaster Sheffield Airport at Little Bawtry ' s restaurant . that incredible group of volunteer have support the airport since its original opening back in 2005 , and they can not wait to be volunteer again once those door reopen . will the Leader of the House join I in recognise the vital role that volunteer like friend of Doncaster Sheffield Airport play in ensure the success of local project right across the country ? will she join I in wish they and the campaigner success in their continue effort to get that airport reopen ? my hon . friend be quickly make a name for himself as Mr Doncaster airport — there be no question about that . like he , I look forward to the sky of Doncaster be fill again with aircraft come into that important airport in his constituency , and I look forward to he raise it again and again at these session until it happen . it be a real pleasure to ask the Leader of the House a question on an issue of urgent concern — such question may be similar , but they be none the less important . there have be an alarming , violent increase in the number of killing of Christians in Nigeria ; there be 63 death between 27 November and 25 December alone . of those , half occur over two day in late December . on 22 December , 15 people be kill in the Plateau state in Nigeria , and on 25 December — of course , when we be all celebrate the birth of our Lord Jesus Christ — 12 people be kill in the Benue state . will the Leader of the House join I in condemn those murder and killing and ask the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to address the escalate violence against Christians in Nigeria and ensure the safety of citizen there ? as ever , the hon . Gentleman raise a serious and important issue . terrorist group such as Boko Haram and Islamic State West Africa Province have seek to undermine the right to freedom of religious belief in Nigeria . that be why we be provide £ 38 million in programming to strengthen peace and resilience in Nigeria to help tackle the root cause of violence in the region . I will ensure that he be constantly update on those matter . before Christmas , I receive a lovely letter — as oppose to an email — from Maisie Fox , a six - year - old pupil at St John ' s primary school in Rosyth . Maisie be very concerned about the safety of her walk and her route to school , as she be unable to use her scooter or bike while cross the busy a985 in Rosyth . I accompany Maisie on her walk to school a couple of week ago and , indeed , it be incredibly dangerous . will the Leader of the House congratulate Maisie on be a young person with an interest in politic — something we should always encourage in young people — and do everything she can to work with the Scottish Government to ensure that road be safe for route to school ? I congratulate Maisie on be mention in the Chamber and get her name in Hansard . I be sure my hon . friend will get a copy to she . she raise the important issue of safe walking route to school . we want to encourage young people to walk to school on their own , where possible , and that be why it be important that we take issue of road traffic , safety and safe walking route to school incredibly seriously . as raise here again today , the Scottish Government now have the fund they need to take some of those issue as seriously as we do . I often joke that my time between be an mp and be re - elect be less a career break and more a sabbatical . during that time , I have the pleasure and great opportunity of work at a fantastic facility — Leigh Spinners Mill . we create affordable space for local business and community organisation to set up and thrive . remarkably , 80 % of those business be own by woman — an inspiring example of inclusive talent and growth . do the Leader of the House agree that we need more research and debate on how to well support and nurture future woman entrepreneur ? will she arrange a debate on woman in business ? we greatly miss my hon . friend when she be on her political sabbatical — one that she do not want to take , but which I think she enjoy — and I hope that she never take another . it be great to see she back in her place . thank to her work during that time , I know about the great work that the Leigh Spinners Mill do . it be great to hear that so many woman entrepreneur be use that platform to take their business forward . for the final question , I call Neil Duncan - Jordan . Sunseeker International be a luxury boat - build company in my constituency , and it employ around 2 , 000 people in the local area . just before Christmas , it issue temporary lay - off notice to more than 100 worker , with the promise that they would come back to work on 27 January . as that date approach , those worker now fear the bad . throughout this difficult time , the company have fail to tell its staff what be happen . will my right hon . friend confirm that our Employment Rights Bill will ensure that employer must consult and inform their worker when they face such challenge , and will she agree to a debate in Government time on the role and importance of shipbuilding in the UK economy ? my hon . friend be absolutely right : the Government have introduce , through the Employment Rights Bill , a huge boost to worker ' right in such situation . the Bill will shortly come back to the Chamber on Report , when we can discuss at great length the action that we want to take against fire and rehire and to support worker in the difficult circumstance that he describe . ECO4 and Insulation Schemes with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to make a statement about the energy company obligation 4 and great british insulation scheme . the Government have identify an emerge issue of poor - quality solid wall insulation instal under those two inherit scheme . energy company obligation 4 begin in April 2022 , and the great british insulation scheme begin in May 2023 . around 65 , 000 household have have solid wall insulation instal under the scheme . in October 2024 , TrustMark , the independent body that oversee tradespeople work in home , do routine audits and find significant example of solid wall insulation under those scheme that do not meet the requisite standard . at that point , TrustMark begin suspend a number of the installer responsible . after official in our Department be make aware of the issue , they ask TrustMark to conduct a much full audit , which conclude in mid - December . official inform Ministers at the start of December about the situation , and tell they that early finding suggest that there be widespread case of poor - quality installation that do not meet the require standard . since that point , we have consult the certification body responsible for oversee the work , and the Building Safety Regulator , to understand the true scale and nature of the emerge problem . it become clear to I that there be a serious systemic issue around ECO4 and GBIS solid wall insulation . it range from minor problem , such as missing or incomplete paperwork , to major problem , such as expose insulation or poor ventilation , which , if not fix , could lead to damp and mould . as more poor - quality work have come to light , a total of 39 business have be suspend from instal new solid wall insulation in people ' s home . I can inform the House that suspend installer will not be able to deliver new solid wall insulation under any Government scheme until they have fulfil their obligation to put any issue right . additional on - site audits be be conduct as I speak , so that we can get a full picture of the scale of the problem and identify affected household . the auditing work continue at pace , and we have put in place a comprehensive plan for immediate repair and remediation where need . let I be absolutely clear about this : installer must fund any repair work themselves and carry it out as soon as possible . consumer should not be ask to pay a penny towards the cost of get the problem fix . we have instruct Ofgem , the energy regulator , to oversee that work . Ofgem will work with TrustMark and certification body to ensure that it be deliver at speed . non - compliant work find through the audits be already be fix . in the very small number of case in which TrustMark audits find health and safety concern , include wire not be fit properly , the problem be be fix urgently , with the expectation that they should be resolve within 24 hour . critically , I reassure the House that additional monitoring and check be be put in place to ensure that future solid wall insulation be do to the requisite standard . it be also important to say that , base on what we know so far , we believe that the issue we have discover be specific to solid wall insulation instal under ECO4 and GBIS . strong system of check and balance be in place for other scheme that involve local authority and social housing provider , so we do not expect to see the same scale of problem there . however , the Government be review the quality of solid wall insulation under other scheme . I will update the House on the result of that work as soon as they be available . we will continue to require the urgent remediation of any issue find across all Government energy efficiency scheme . I know that this will be concern news for family who have have solid wall insulation fit through those scheme . get this sort for those customer be our no . 1 priority . since I be inform of the problem , I have work with Ofgem to develop a full plan for assess all affected property and get any problem fix . let I set out what our plan mean for those family . Ofgem will now oversee quality check on all solid wall insulation instal under either scheme , to identify household that might be affect . that will begin with every measure be examine over the come week by qualified professional , and that will include look at photographic evidence . if a quality check raise issue , the certification body that oversee the installer , or TrustMark , will arrange an inspection of the property and the problem will be fix as soon as possible . installer will be require to provide evidence to TrustMark that issue have be properly fix . let I reiterate our assurance that where solid wall insulation under the scheme have not be do right , consumer should not have to pay a penny to fix that . we be clear that the responsibility for find and fix any problem lie with those who carry out the work . consumer do not need to take any action now . however , give the inevitable concern among those who have have those measure instal , all household with solid wall insulation fit under the scheme will be send a letter from Ofgem in the next three week . it will set out the step that we be take , and how household can proactively raise concern . we be also set up a gov . uk advice page specifically for those affect . the Government be move fast to protect household , but I must be honest with the House : these issue be the result of year of failure in a system that must be reform . home upgrade be , we believe , one of the good tool to get bill down for good and deliver warm home . that be why our warm home plan will cut bill for million of household by upgrade their home , include with solar panel , battery , heat pump and energy efficiency measure such as double glazing and loft insulation . however , the Government have inherit a fragmented and confusing system of protection for people who want to insulate their home — too many organisation with different role and responsibility , not enough clarity for consumer about who to turn to if thing go wrong , and problem that should have be pick up early be miss . the system be in dire need of reform . installer be responsible for poor - quality installation , but they have be allow to operate in a fail system that have leave some household expose to bad practice . the system can no long command confidence , which be why we be committed to overhaul it , and to drive up quality and protect consumer through the warm home plan . we will look at the entire landscape — from how installer work in people ' s home and be certify and monitor , to where homeowner turn for rapid action and enforcement if thing go wrong — and we will ensure that there be more of a guide mind oversee upgrade across the system . the step I have set out demonstrate that the Government will do whatever it take to protect consumer . we will regularly report back to the House about the step be take . we have set up a process through which colleague from across the House can raise concern about their constituent . above all , we be determined to ensure that family be never let down in this way again . we will put in place a robust system of compliance , audit and regulation , so that consumer have the confidence to take up the offer of upgrade their home . we will do what be necessary to ensure that family can have warm home and low bill . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for advance sight of her statement , and for take the time to meet I this morning prior to make the statement . the eco scheme and the great british insulation scheme be set up because we know that improve the energy efficiency of home be one of the good way to cut energy bill and keep people warm . this be especially the case for those who be in fuel poverty . when we take office in 2010 , just 14 % of home in this country have an energy performance rating of A to c ; today , that figure be around 50 % , and for social housing , we go from 24 % in 2010 to 70 % today . that be a record that we be proud of — a record of reduce bill for household and keep family warm . almost half of the measure instal under GBIS have be in low - income household . solid wall insulation be a small proportion of the overall work that the ECO scheme and the great british insulation scheme undertake . the vast majority of installation under those scheme have be cavity wall and loft insulation , alongside installation of smart thermostat and boiler upgrade under the eco scheme . however , it be deeply concern that example of substandard solid wall insulation have be identify in some of the installation under those scheme . we of course support the action that the Minister have announce today , and Ofgem be give responsibility for oversee the repair and remediation , and it be right to conduct additional on - site audits to inform action move forward . I thank TrustMark for the work it have do to identify example of poor - quality solid wall insulation , and we also welcome the fact that there will be a review of the quality of solid wall insulation under other scheme . it be absolutely right for installer to fund the repair work , and to ensure that the situation be remedied for affected household as soon as possible . nobody should have to live in a house with damp or mould as a result of poor - quality insulation . could the Minister , in addition to take the action that she outline in her statement , please answer the follow question ? first , have the audits undertake so far identify what proportion of the solid wall insulation be affect by poor - quality work ? can she confirm that all 39 company that have be suspend still exist , and set out the mechanism by which they will be require to remedy their work ? what action be be take to make sure that remedial work be of the require standard , to ensure that consumer be protect from yet more poor - quality work ? what action be the Minister take to make sure that everyone who have solid wall insulation instal under the scheme be inform promptly and in full , and that nobody will be miss ? will she publish a full list of the 39 company suspend from the scheme for carry out poor - quality work , and have the Department consider take legal action against they ? member in all part of the House want to ensure that family have a warm and comfortable home that be efficient and cheap to run . the Minister have our assurance that we will work cross - party to ensure remediation for those affect . I thank the hon . member for his response . I be glad that there be consensus across the House that energy efficiency measure and home upgrade be key to deliver warm home and low bill , and I hope all member be supportive of the action the Government be take . in answer to the hon . member ' s question , we be still conduct audits to get a full picture . from sample that have be do — I stress that the sampling be gear towards the installer that we think be most risky — it seem that a significant proportion of that sample have major issue , which be why we be take this action . on the 39 installer that have be suspend , we be work through certification body and TrustMark to require they to go into household and remediate the work . in the case that we have audit , that be happen . the vast majority of installer want to do the right thing and want to do a good job , and where issue have be flag , they be repair the work . where we think there be problem , we have mechanism in place for make sure that the installer deliver on their obligation , and the guarantee system act as a backstop . a crucial question be how we ensure both that where remediation work be be do , it be be do to the right standard , and that future solid wall insulation be do to a well standard . we be put in place additional spot check across the piece to make sure that where work have be remediate , it have be do to the require standard , and critically , all solid wall insulation will be give more monitoring and check . supplier have commit to that , so that when people be have this work do , they can be confident that it be be do to a much well standard than we have see . on keep everyone inform , we will be write through Ofgem to all household that have have solid wall insulation instal . we will be do quality check on all 65 , 000 solid wall insulation . I should stress that we hope the vast majority of those will be okay and that any issue will be minor , but we want to do a quality check across the piece . our priority be get in , make sure we be do a proper inspection of the property , and get key issue remediate as quickly as possible . through all of that , our priority be the consumer , whose experience have to be as hassle - free , stress - free and cost - free as possible . this should never have happen in the first place , and we be determined to get this right and fix it on those consumer ’ behalf . as the Minister know , I have long campaign in this area , and I be grateful to she for meet my hon . friend the Member for Burnley ( Oliver Ryan ) and myself , along with the SSB victim support group , last year to discuss these important issue . as such , I welcome the concrete step that the Minister intend to take in this area . she will know that many of the victim of the SSB Law scandal be directly impact through faulty cavity wall insulation , but the step that the Minister have outline today be about solid wall insulation . can she confirm that exactly the same action will be take when we be deal with cavity wall insulation , and if not , why not ? will she also agree to make sure that compensation be available — whether through remedial work or in other way — for all those impact by the cavity wall insulation scandal ? I thank my hon . friend for his avid and consistent campaigning on these issue . as he know , there be an ongoing investigation into the case of SSB Law at the moment . to answer my hon . friend ' s specific question , for any insulation that be instal under Government scheme , we expect that the system will kick in and respond . we be aware of case that have be raise with TrustMark and other body , and we be work to make sure those be remediate . where the insulation have not be instal under a Government scheme — we have example of that , where constituent have engage with insulation scheme that be not government scheme — there be a different set of mechanism . we be work with the system to make sure we be respond to household , because as I have say , this be not the fault of individual household ; the system be not work properly . we be go to prioritise government scheme , because we have the lever , but we recognise that there be an issue for household that have have work do outside Government scheme . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for advance sight of her statement . I can only imagine the frustration that consumer feel when they go through the quite often complicated process of try to upgrade their home to bring down their bill for good , only to be meet with substandard work and a subsequent lack of enforcement . Liberal Democrat Members recognise that the Government have inherit a fragmented and confusing system , and that the focus today be on consumer and on remedial work affect the shoddy work they have have instal . I be glad that the Government be commit to ensure that the onus of that remedial work do not land in the pocket of consumer . we agree that the system need a complete overhaul , especially since the last Conservative Government leave the great british insulation scheme fall woefully short of the target it set for itself and support far too few people far too slowly , while some who do receive installation have find they to be well below the require standard . if fault be find with other energy efficiency measure , will the Minister guarantee that consumer do not have to pay a penny for those , as for the one she have highlight ? how soon can consumer expect their quality check to be deliver , and will priority be give to household in fuel poverty as well as to the elderly and the vulnerable ? I thank the hon . member , and I be again glad to hear that she agree we need a big overhaul of the system , which be absolutely our focus and our commitment . on other measure under ECO and GBIS , audits be not find the same scale of systemic problem . we think the problem be focus on solid wall insulation in particular . we be do stress test and additional audits of other measure to make sure , but we think there be a specific problem with those measure , so we be focus on they and move at pace to get they remediate . where we be find major issue , we be set expectation that that work be prioritise , and installer be come in and remediate it as soon as possible . under the exist publicly available specification framework , remediation after installer have not put the work right have to be do within 12 week , and we be set the expectation so the system move at pace to respond to consumer . we will absolutely be look to prioritise household in fuel poverty and vulnerable household . we be do two thing : we be contact they , but we will also create the ability for people to reach out if they be worried or vulnerable , so that we be do the necessary triaging and , critically , get into property to fix work that have not be do right . I sincerely thank the Minister for her great work on this . in the six month she have be in post , she have make more progress than the last lot do in 14 year . this have be a serious problem for victim in Burnley , so I thank she . I be glad she be look at early scheme , too , because many home have fall victim to cowboy builder and fail insulation over several year . I look forward to her update on early scheme , which need to be action by the previous Government but be not , and be ignore for an awful long time . I particularly welcome the strong regulation , the clarity for consumer and the clear process for complaint , which will make a genuine difference . I have two question . will the ban on particular company follow the director of those company ? too often , we have see company be establish and put in poor insulation , and then the director go away , extinguish the company and start again somewhere else . as my hon . friend the Member for Bradford East ( Imran Hussain ) ask , will this cover cavity wall insulation where it have be government - back ? I thank my hon . friend for all the work he have do on this , and for engage with I and my Department . we be aware of instance where company have fold so as not to deliver on their obligation to remediate work , and have then set up again . we be put in place process through the certification body to mitigate that , with a clear expectation that company will not be take on by another certification body if they do not get the work right . our priority at the moment be solid wall insulation , because that be where we think there be an immediate problem with ECO and GBIS . we be aware , from member contact we , of the wide issue that need to be address . I come back to the fact that we understand that the system have not be work for consumer . quite frankly , the quality — and quality assurance — across the system have be far too fragmented and patchy . critically , consumer protection have not be underscore in the way it need to be . we be look to overhaul the system , and we be conscious that there be issue with other scheme and be think about the good way in which we can resolve they . I call the Father of the House . I refer the Minister to the last word in her statement , which be that the Government will " ensure that family have low bill . " there will always be a problem with insulation in a country with a massively degraded and old housing stock , which underline the vital importance of cheap energy . we have have a month with virtually no wind and no sun , and so - call green energy be produce hardly any of our energy . we be import energy , we be stop drilling in the North sea and we be not build gas - fire power station . what about old people ? their heating allowance have be take away , and we be crucify they with ever high bill . meanwhile , China — its annual increment in emission be more than our entire emission — be go on pump out emission , and " Drill , baby " Trump be pump out emission . why be we crucify our old people ? I would say to the right hon . Gentleman that the status quo be not fit for purpose . he say we should not take action , yet the last Government preside over the bad energy crisis we have see for a generation . over the past two and a half year , we see his model result in record energy bill . the Conservatives be willing and content to accept that , and they think it be tenable . it be not acceptable to we . our view be that we have to wean ourselves off our over - reliance on global fossil fuel market that be volatile and that , critically , will not guarantee low bill . we be commit to deliver clean power — yes , because it deliver on our climate requirement , but critically because we think that that be the route by which we will deliver home that be warm and cheap for consumer . at the heart of everything we be do be ensure that consumer — who rely on energy not because it be a luxury good , but because it be absolutely foundational — have energy at stable price that they can access and afford . this be not a status quo we be willing to accept , and that be why we be take action . I thank the Minister for her statement , and I commend she for the work she have be do . it must be say that we have inherit an almighty mess from the previous Government , which be incredibly frustrating . she will know how important this issue be to my constituency , which be rural , with too many people on low wage . we have more than our fair share of poorly insulate home , and fuel poverty be therefore a real concern . can the Minister reassure my resident , and I be sure many resident across the country , that the news of this late setback will not delay progress on the improvement in rural community such as mine ? I thank my hon . friend , and we be absolutely committed to upgrade people ' s home . we believe that that be the route to deliver warm home that be cheap to run , and that commitment stand for all community . we want to move at pace with our warm home plan because we want to deliver upgrade in people ' s home . however , we be very clear that part of that have to be an overhaul of the system , because if consumer want to go on this journey , they need to be confident that the work do will be of the utmost quality and standard , and that if thing go wrong , we have proper redress system in place . that be not what we inherit , but it be absolutely what we must deliver . I welcome what the Government be say about the need to address this issue , and it will be reassure for the very many people who have raise the problem with their mp . however , be they also go to look at whether there be a wide problem with insulation generally , as have be mention , and have they have discussion with the devolved Administrations about scheme in the wide UK ? I thank the hon . member , and yes , we have speak to the devolved administration . we have speak to the Scottish Government and the Welsh Government , and we be work closely and collaborate with they . it be important to stress that scheme operate in slightly different way . in the case of the Welsh Administration , we think great check and balance be in place in the scheme with local authority and social housing provider . I think there be a collective appetite and desire to work together , because everyone agree that home upgrade be fundamental to deliver warm home and cheap bill . we need to get the delivery right to make sure we deliver at the scale and pace of our ambition , but do so with quality at the heart of it . I thank the Minister for her statement . part of my constituency be 1 , 000 foot above sea level and our winter can be bitter , so good - quality insulation scheme be really important . I welcome the Minister ' s emphasis on much well standard , but on a wide scale , can she please tell I how she be go to grow the workforce need to deliver these initiative for the future ? my hon . friend be absolutely right : build the supply chain and the workforce will be critical to deliver the pace and the scale of our ambition . we be already put in place training scheme to build up the next generation of installer , and we be work with local and regional government on how to build our supply chain . a key part of the warm home plan will be work with a range of organisation from local to national level to build the supply chain and ensure that , through that , we be deliver quality job that pay a decent wage . this be a big opportunity . there be an opportunity for consumer , but we also believe that this be good for the economy , include particular local economy , and work with local and regional government to ensure that we realise that be a priority . I thank the Minister for her statement , in which she confirm that the 39 suspend company be suspend from provide new solid wall insulation under the scheme . be they also suspend from provide other sort of insulation , such as external , loft and cavity wall insulation ? we have suspend the 39 company , and under Government scheme they will not be do any work on solid wall insulation . the vast majority , particularly those installer that TrustMark believe be risky , be prohibit from do other work . where we have evidence that some of the company be deliver loft insulation , for example , and other measure to standard , they be allow to do that , but we be keep this closely under review . TrustMark be look at the 39 company constantly , and there be a big onus on the requirement on those company to deliver and remediate the work in order to be able to any further work . I congratulate the Minister on her sterling work to tackle this minefield of rogue company who abuse the good will of resident when instal energy save measure , by scamme they with substandard product and damage their home . will she work with colleague in the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government to consider extend the scope of this excellent regulation to look at spray foam insulation ? my historic market town constituency of Shrewsbury have many beautiful old property and many old resident . it sadden I that it be elderly resident such as David and Sue , and Mr and Mrs Balcombe , who be approach by ruthless company offer spray foam insultation , despite the fact that it be inappropriate for their old property . as a consequence of the damage cause , those family have face bill after bill for survey and remedial work , cost ten of thousand of pound . crucially , they be now struggle to sell their home , as lender will not approve mortgage for home with faulty spray foam insulation . David and Sue now face bill to replace their roof , and sadly Mr Balcombe pass away recently , leave his widow to continue the fight for a resolution to this nightmare . may I ask that family such as those be consider for the same enhance regulation and compensation scheme ? I thank my hon . friend for raise the issue in her constituency . we be aware of the issue with spray foam insulation — indeed , a number of member from across the House have raise it with we — and we be work with MHCLG . for example , we have do a lot of work on mortgage , and have work with lender to ensure that there be not a blanket policy of not give mortgage where there be spray foam insulation within the property . we acknowledge that there be a problem and that we need to strengthen the regulation , assurance and consumer protection across the piece with all energy efficiency measure . that be why , alongside remediate the immediate issue that we find within ECO4 and GBIS , we be work at pace to deliver wholesale regulation of the way the system work . over the past 14 year , I have regularly raise the building industry and its failure to provide decent home of decent quality . the one strand that follow all the way through be the failure properly to inspect independently work that have be carry out , to certify it , and to ensure that it be fit for purpose . will the Minister ensure that , beyond the current audit , all future work be properly inspect , certify and sign off , so that the people receive the insulation can feel confident that the work have be do properly ? the hon . Gentleman be right . there be a poor and weak system of inspection , certification and assurance . we believe that that be one of the reason why we have end up where we have , and we be clear that we must reform that part of the landscape . in the end , we must command the trust and confidence of consumer , and problem such as this fundamentally undermine that trust and confidence . as part of reform the system we will look at how we inspect work when it be do , how we monitor what have be do and , critically , how we can have that assurance so that when consumer have work do , they can be confident that it be do to the high standard . I commend the Minister for her statement . I have hear from many constituent in Pembrokeshire who have be affect by these scheme , with incorrect insulation of air source heat pump , faulty or shoddy building work , lack of valid warranty , grant misuse , and regulator such as TrustMark simply side with the contractor . all of that have a disproportionate effect on vulnerable group . do the Minister agree that it be only thank to this Labour Government that we be finally sort out the fail system of regulation ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the problem we be find across the piece . we be clear that the system we inherit be not fit for purpose . it be a patchwork of disjoint , fragmented regulation and consumer protection , it be frankly a nightmare for consumer to navigate through , and it be not fit for purpose . there have to be a root and branch overview of how the system work . our priority be to ensure that if consumer choose to do home upgrade , it be as easy as possible for they to navigate the system , and they can have quality . the difference between this Government and the previous one be that we believe there be a role for Government . there have to be a guide mind oversee home upgrade across the piece , and we must ensure that the system be deliver for consumer . I welcome today ' s statement , but it be not just about solid wall insulation . it be not right that anybody have to take any ECO4 supplier to the small claim court to get recompense for fix shoddy work . trustmark as a process be intrinsically ill - design to protect vulnerable people , because it presume that acceptance of a supplier on to the scheme be a sufficient safeguard . will the Minister consider — I bear in mind what she have already say — empower local authority to sign off work before a penny be pay ? the right hon . member be right to highlight the important role that local authority can play . across the country , include in Wales , where local authority or regional government be oversee this work and provide additional quality and check , we be not see the same scope of problem . we be look at this in the round . we be clear that the status quo be not fit for purpose and that we must put in additional check , balance and assurance . we think there be lesson to be learn from what be happen in Wales and Scotland , and what be happen in regional and local government . I welcome my hon . friend ' s statement , and congratulate she on the detail with which she be answer question and on show how much she be on top of her brief . only on Friday , a constituent come to see I who have a new boiler fit and insulation do under an eco grant . the work have be subcontract by the company that originally win the contract , and that something that exacerbate the problem . that company clearly be not up to the standard require to carry out the work , and lot of remedial work be require . how can we ensure that the people who win these contract do not subcontract to company that be not capable of carry out the work , mean that we end up with the situation the Minister have describe ? my hon . friend be right to highlight subcontracting within the system . often we find that subcontracting be happen two or three time , and the start client be not oversee the work in the way that they should . that be why we be clear that we must look at the entire system , and part of that be look at who be deliver the work , how they be deliver it , and how we ensure that there be proper accountability in the system . it be obvious to I that the current system do not allow for that accountability , and that be what put consumer in a difficult position . I be sure the Minister will recall our intimate Adjournment debate before the House rise for the Christmas recess — it be just she and I here . [ interruption . ] yes , and it be the day after our Christmas party , so it be an interesting debate . I sincerely welcome the step that the Minister have outline for solid wall insulation . the problem I have be that , fundamentally , all these issue apply to spray foam insulation , as I say in my Adjournment debate . there be blanket ban by some mortgage provider : research by the BBC show that one in three of the top 12 mortgage lender have such policy . I be more than happy to send on that information again . there be a real issue of fairness and justice here . it be right that we be seek to get this right for people do wrong by those who have not instal insulation to spec , but the same must be true for those who be victim of the spray foam insulation scandal , include my constituent Tom and Norma in Knaresborough . the Minister have acknowledge in her statement that there be systemic issue , that TrustMark be not do its work and that there be to be audits of solid wall insulation . however , when I ask whether there be an understanding of how many people have be impact by spray foam insulation , I be tell that there be not a number . how can it be that we be count how much of one sort of insulation have be instal , but not another ? some 250 , 000 people have be affect by spray foam insulation . will she give justice to they , too ? I thank the hon . member for all the work he have do on spray foam insulation and the campaigning he have do for his constituent . I fondly remember that Adjournment debate with just the two of we , and I vividly remember the story he tell of Tom and Norma . I reiterate the commitment to work together to try to resolve this . the difference between spray foam insulation and work do under the eco and GBIS scheme be that , because those be government - back scheme , we have the datum . large number of people have have spray foam instal , and some but not all of that work be do through the green home grant . we recognise that there be a problem with the system of quality assurance and regulation across the piece — we have acknowledge that very clearly in the House . we will continue to work with MHCLG and other colleague to think about what we can do on spray foam . the priority , as the hon . Member will understand , be household who have have work do under eco and GBIS that , if we do not fix it quickly , could result in damp and mould . we must act quickly on that . however , I acknowledge that there be an issue with household that have spray foam insulation do under the old system . as I say when we have the debate , we will continue work to think about way in which we can resolve that for those household . I welcome the Minister ' s statement and , in particular , her remark on consumer protection . follow on from the hon . member for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Tom Gordon ) , a constituent recently tell I at my surgery about work carry out on their home under the last government ' s green home grant . follow spray foam insulation be put into their loft , they have a leak roof that can not be access , as well as damp that be not there previously . those issue have have a huge detrimental impact on their life . they find themselves unable to afford remedial work amount to thousand of pound . what message can the Minister share with my constituent ? will she meet I to discuss spray foam insulation instal under the green home grant scheme ? I will absolutely meet my hon . friend to discuss spray foam insulation . give the correspondence and parliamentary question I have receive on this issue , I offer to meet with hon . member more broadly , because we need to ensure that we be listen to constituent . if the work be do under the green home grant , we need to think about how we can get the system to respond as it should . I give that commitment to he and other hon . member across the House who have case in their constituency and be worried about this . I apologise to the Minister , because like the hon . member for Shrewsbury ( Julia Buckley ) and for Bolton West ( Phil Brickell ) , and my hon . friend the Member for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Tom Gordon ) , I will raise the issue of spray foam . my constituent Matt be tell that his house be unmortgageable with the nation ' s large building society , despite his pay extra for an extensive survey of his timber to prove that there be no problem . he have since be force to replace his roof at a cost of £ 21 , 000 just to get a chance to remortgage and perhaps one day sell his house . the roofing company tell he that the market be boom for spray foam removal by the very same people who put it in , which feel like exploitation . how will the Government address that , and why be Government site still promote and recommend spray foam insulation ? it be important to stress that the Government never recommend a particular solution . the approach that the last Government take and that we have adopt be that , in the end , people have to find the right measure for their home . we never promote any particular measure . I acknowledge that there be a problem with spray foam , and that installer in the market be put spray foam in property where it be not fit for purpose . we have be do a lot of work with colleague at the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government to respond to that point about lender . if there be specific case where a lender find something problematic despite a survey say that it be absolutely fine , please feed that through to we , as we be continue to work with the industry on that . there should not be a blanket ban . it be important to stress that where spray foam insulation be carry out well and be appropriate for a property , it be a good thing , but I agree that there be too many case where it have not be carry out well and be not appropriate . I therefore extend an offer to meet . we need to think about what we will do in response . we have inherit this system , and I wish I could change the past , but I can not . what we can do be draw a line under it . we can absolutely ensure that we reform the system so that this never happen again , and so that we can command the trust of consumer . my constituent have unfortunately face a double whammy of not only have have defective cavity wall insulation instal , but be pursue by law firm such as SSB for adverse legal cost . consumer be badly let down , and we need to ensure that do not happen again . will the Minister assure we that this will not happen again under future programme , such as the new warm home plan ? on pipeline , be the Government work cross - departmentally to ensure that we have the right skill and training for future programme ? we want to ensure confidence in the system . let I reassure my hon . friend that we be absolutely work to ensure that the lesson learn from the scheme we inherit be apply to the warm home plan as we develop it , and that we put in place system for check , assurance and advice , so that consumer can have confidence . we be work across Government , because build up the supply chain and make sure that we have installer with the skill to do the work well be an absolute priority . we be work to deliver that . I thank the Minister for a comprehensive response and , as importantly , for give hope to all those people affect . that assure people and give they confidence through their elect representative in this House . in Northern Ireland , we have the affordable warmth scheme , which be different , but the goal be the same . shortcoming have be identify ; will the Minister be so helpful as to share the lesson learn with the Northern Ireland Assembly and the relevant Northern Ireland Minister ? that be vital . if something go wrong here , the lesson learn could help we to solve problem in Northern Ireland . we will engage with colleague in Northern Ireland . we be work closely with all the devolved administration . we be build up the evidence base on what happen and think about our response , and we be keen to share with other authority any insight that we gain . Holocaust Memorial Day I beg to move , that this House have consider Holocaust Memorial Day . it be an immense privilege to open this important debate on behalf of the Government . as hon . member will know , 80 year ago this month , soldier of the Soviet 60th Army of the First Ukrainian Front open the gate of Auschwitz - Birkenau . that infamous camp have become the symbol of the Shoah and be synonymous around the world with terror and genocide more widely . its distinctive railway track that lead almost directly to the gas chamber , as well as the chill word over the gate of the Auschwitz I main camp , " arbeit macht frei " , be instantly recognisable , as be the pile of shoe , suitcase and other personal effect — the only remnant of the more than 1 million jewish man , woman and child from every corner of Europe who perish at the site . almost all the deportee who arrive at Auschwitz - Birkenau camp be immediately select for death in the gas chamber . it be estimate that the SS and police deport at least 1 . 3 million people to the complex between 1940 and 1945 . of these , the camp authority murder 1 . 1 million . on Monday , world leader will gather at Auschwitz - Birkenau to mark the 80th anniversary of its liberation . the United Kingdom will be represent by his Majesty the King . Mala Tribich MBE , Holocaust survivor and sister of the late Sir Ben Helfgott — may his memory be a blessing — will also attend . the number of those who survive the Shoah be dwindle , as you will know , Madam Deputy Speaker . those who remain with we grow ever frailer . as a result , this be likely to be the last gathering of Holocaust survivor . eighty year ago , the US 3rd Army 6th Armoured Division liberate Buchenwald , the large concentration camp on german soil . General — later President — Dwight D . Eisenhower , write afterward : " I have never feel able to describe my emotional reaction when I first come face to face with indisputable evidence of nazi brutality and ruthless disregard of every shred of decency . " eighty year ago , british force liberate concentration camp in northern Germany , include Neuengamme and Bergen - Belsen . they enter the Bergen - Belsen concentration camp , which be about 45 km from Hanover , in mid - April 1945 . some 55 , 000 prisoner , many in critical condition because of a typhus epidemic , be find alive . within three month of liberation , more than 13 , 000 of they have die from the effect of malnutrition or disease . BBC journalist Richard Dimbleby famously describe the scene of almost unimaginable horror that greet he as he tour Belsen concentration camp shortly after its liberation . Bergen - Belsen begin as a prisoner of war camp , and be use for jewish inmate from 1943 onwards . it be estimate that 70 , 000 people die there . Richard Dimbleby be the first broadcaster to enter the camp and , overcome , break down several time while make his report . the BBC initially refuse to play the report as it could not believe the scene he have describe . it be broadcast only after Dimbleby threaten to resign . the image from Belsen — emaciated figure lie half - dead on open ground in freeze weather , while thousand of corpse be bulldoze into great pit — be excruciating to see to this day . some of the first - hand witness simply can not bring themselves to speak of it . it haunt they to this day . over the decade , Holocaust survivor , many of whom experience Belsen or Auschwitz , have share their testimony , but 80 year after the Holocaust , their number be dwindle , and soon these first - hand witness will no long be with we . the remarkable Lily Ebert MBE die age 100 at home in London last October . her life after Auschwitz show that even in the face of unspeakable evil , the human spirit can triumph . she emerge from the darkness to bear harrowing witness , but also to rebuild hope with future generation . may her memory be a blessing . Henry Wuga , aged 100 , and Bob Kirk , aged 99 , who both come to the UK on the Kindertransport , die in 2024 . both man dedicate their life to Holocaust education . the impact that Lily , Henry and Bob have on young and old can not be overestimate , and highlight the importance of first - hand testimony . both because of the alarming rise in anti - jewish hate in recent year , and because those who survive be now in their 80 and 90 , it be essential that as a country , we do more to preserve the memory of this unique act of evil and those who perish in it . it be also imperative that we continue to educate future generation about what happen , both as a mark of respect to those who be lose and those who survive , and as a warning about what happen when antisemitism , prejudice and hatred be allow to flourish unchecked . some 27 year ago , former swedish Prime Minister G ö run Persson decide to establish an international organisation that would expand Holocaust education worldwide . he ask President Bill Clinton and former british Prime Minister Tony Blair to join he in that effort . Persson also develop the idea of an international forum of government interested in discuss Holocaust education , which take place in Stockholm from 27 to 29 January 2000 . the forum be attend by representative of 46 government , include 23 head of State or Prime Ministers , and 14 Deputy Prime Ministers or Ministers . the declaration of the Stockholm international forum lead to the establishment of Holocaust Memorial Day on 27 January , and the foundation of the international Holocaust Remembrance Alliance . this year , the UK have the privilege of hold the chair of the IHRA , and it continue to have an excellent reputation in the field of Holocaust remembrance and education , and tackle antisemitism . we be fortunate in the UK to have organisation such as the Holocaust Educational Trust , lead by Karen Pollock CBE , and the Holocaust Memorial Day Trust , lead by Olivia Marks - Woldman OBE . the Holocaust Educational Trust , which have work with Holocaust survivor for decade , be well aware of the increase frailty of survivor , and that there will come a day when we no long have living witness . that be why it have recently develop , with the support of the Government , testimony360 — a free digital education programme that combine digital eyewitness testimony with virtual reality , revolutionise access to survivor testimony and provide an invaluable opportunity for student learn about the Holocaust . the UK take on the presidency of the IHRA in 2024 , with the world on the cusp of significant change in Holocaust remembrance . within a few short year , Holocaust survivor will move from contemporary memory into history book . how we remember be a matter of debate , but different view coalesce around three heading : landscape , archive — include testimony — and object . our presidency have successfully strengthen all three under the general title of " in plain sight " . this title be a reminder that the Holocaust do not happen in dark corner but in broad daylight . jewish man , woman and child suffer persecution in the full view of their neighbour — indeed , often by their neighbour . law discriminate against Jews and deprive they of right and property be pass openly by legislature . the attempt destruction of the jewish people and their culture be not conduct in secret , but brazenly and openly . our presidency be also keen to engage young people , through our remarkably successful " my hometown " project , which invite school across IHRA member country to look at what happen in their hometown during the Holocaust . school in former occupy country , and those receive victim of Nazis and their collaborator , produce original and moving project . school participate from as far afield as Argentina , Greece , Canada and Poland , alongside other member country , include the UK . project range widely in their subject matter . one focus on the influence of Holocaust survivor flee to Argentina on the music of Argentinian tango . in Nottingham , an amazing teacher , Domonic Townsend , from the Nottingham University Samworth Academy , work on a remarkable project . the school house a specialist provision unit for deaf child . alongside the Nottinghamshire Deaf Society , Domonic create the first Holocaust - specific sign language lexicon for access Holocaust education , to empower our young child to access that education in an inclusive way . I urge all hon . member to watch the video on YouTube . it be truly inspiring . the UK presidency also work with the Association of jewish Refugees on our legacy project , the Holocaust testimony portal , which pull together for the first time testimony from UK Holocaust survivor and refugee who make their home in Britain . this include testimony from the AJR Refugee Voices initiative , the UK Holocaust Memorial Foundation , the Shoah Foundation and many more archive . hopefully , more archive — particularly the small , more specialised one — will join in the come month . the portal allow user to find in a single place the testimony of individual survivor across the decade . to commemorate the 80th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz - Birkenau , we have develop with the AJR the digital project " 80 Objects / 80 life " , a collection of one - minute clip feature 80 object from filmed testimony of british Holocaust survivor and refugee . the object represent the personal history and experience of jewish Holocaust survivor and refugee before , during and at the end of the second world war . object such as a teddy bear , a doll , a watch or a spoon take on special meaning ; a passport stamp with the letter J , a yellow star , and a bowl from Bergen - Belsen be bittersweet remnant of a lost world . eighty year after the Holocaust , we sadly still contend with Holocaust denial . some form of denial be less common , and in some state it be now illegal and punishable under the law , but the form that Holocaust denial can take be ever - change . it once refer to those who claim that 6 million Jews be not murder , and that there be no gas chamber whatsoever ; today , these outright denier be few and mostly relegate to the fringe . the problem we face today be more complex and more subtle , and be often nuance and difficult to identify . however , that do not render they less dangerous , or the need to challenge they less compelling . after all , we be live in an age when fact be routinely dispute , and disinformation and misinformation be rampant . this present a real and present danger for Holocaust education , remembrance and research . it have be a long process even for democratic country to confront their own problematic history . it be only in 1995 that the french Government accept responsibility for the deportation and death of more than 70 , 000 Jews , and that Austria finally dispel the myth of be Hitler ' s " first victim " and make amend to austrian Nazi victim . we have all watch the misinformation emanating from Russia that try to justify the war in Ukraine as " denazification " , but across eastern Europe fascist leader of the past who be involve in the persecution of Jews but who fight communism be shamefully be rehabilitate and , in some case , give public honour . Lithuania ' s Genocide and Resistance Research Centre decide that the leader of the Nazi - ally Lithuanian Activist Front be worthy of such honour . Hungary ' s Government build a new museum that would tread lightly on the role of local collaborator . even in Romania , which have do so much to confront its own problematic history , the Church be canonise religious leader who be know for their wartime antisemitism . other form of distortion have come about more quietly . follow a UN recommendation , dozen of country now mark International Holocaust Remembrance Day with special programme and educational initiative . this be a real achievement , but it have bring with it a universalising of the Holocaust and its meaning . there be , however , general lesson on how hatred and intolerance can lead to discrimination , exclusion and even mass murder , and the need to be open to asylum seeker flee for their life . yet with grow frequency the essential story of the Holocaust — the pernicious spread of antisemitism , the widespread indifference and the genocidal murder of a third of the world ' s jewish population — be obscure or ignore . it be as though antisemitism be no long a problem , and Jews be no long threaten . surely this can not be the message that Holocaust commemoration carry with it . we must guard against the watering down of Holocaust Memorial Day . it be a day when central to all our commemoration should be the murder of 6 million jewish man , woman and child . today , Holocaust denial and distortion move instantan - eously across social medium platform and be amplify by algorithm that drive anger and division . sadly , the alarming resurgence of antisemitism since 7 October 2023 show how the hate of the past be still with we . today and every day , we stand in solidarity with the jewish community at home and abroad . the theme for Holocaust Memorial Day 2025 , " for a well future " , be particularly timely , because remembrance without resolve be a hollow gesture . even as we remember the past , we must be ever vigilant about the present and future . that be why we have a duty to remember , and why the new Holocaust memorial and learn centre at the heart of Westminster be so important in keep alive the memory of those murder during the Holocaust . finally , it would be remiss of I not to mention the long - await ceasefire between Israel and Hamas that begin on Sunday 19 February . as part of the agreement , we see the release of three of the israeli hostage who be take from their home and from a music festival on 7 October , and the release of hundred of Palestinians . one of the hostage be british citizen Emily Damari , who have now be reunite with her family , include her mother Amanda , who never stop her tireless fight to bring her daughter home . we wish all three hostage the very good as they begin the road to recovery after the intolerable trauma they have experience . yet while we rightly welcome the ceasefire deal , we must not forget about those who remain in captivity under Hamas . we must now see the remain phase of the ceasefire deal implement in full and on schedule , include the release of the remain hostage and a surge of humanitarian aid into Gaza . hopefully , these first tentative step will lead to a lasting solution , with the people of Israel and the Palestinians live side by side in peace . the UK stand ready to do everything it can to support that hope for a permanent and peaceful solution . I look forward to hear the rest of the debate . I call the shadow Minister . it be my privilege and solemn duty to open this debate on behalf of the Opposition . I thank the Minister for his very thoughtful remark . the theme of this year ' s Holocaust Memorial Day , " for a well future " , encourage we to reflect on the lesson of history and on the step we must take to ensure that such atrocity never happen again . this Holocaust Memorial Day also mark the 80th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz - Birkenau , a place where more than 1 million jewish people lose their life — part of the 1 . 1 million victim who also include the disabled , member of the gay community and political opponent of the Nazi regime . we should always strive to stamp out the evil that be antisemitism . it have no place in our society , or any society . early this month , like other , I be honour to sign the Holocaust Educational Trust ' s book of commitment , and today I be honour to speak in this important debate . I pay tribute to the trust for its outstanding work in keep the memory of the Holocaust alive through educational outreach and keep the Holocaust in our curriculum for more than 30 year . I also thank the survivor of the Holocaust for the work they have do to educate past , present and future generation on the horror of the past and to give we lesson for the future . my party will always support the jewish community , so it be encouraging to see the Leader of the opposition engage with the Board of Deputies of British Jews , the jewish Leadership Council and the Community Security Trust to discuss the challenge face the jewish community . as part of my role as shadow Secretary of State , I be meet the jewish Leadership Council in February , and I look forward to engage with it and other jewish organisation in the future . our party will continue to engage with the community in opposition , and together we reaffirm our commitment to tackle antisemitism , promote community cohesion and hold this government to account on these critical issue . this debate and this period of reflection come at an important moment for the middle east , which we hope will usher in a sustainable end to the conflict . every single hostage must be return safely home and reunite with family and friend after 15 month of the most unimaginably cruel captivity at the hand of Hamas . we have firmly in our thought the victim of the 7 October terror attack — those who lose their life , and those whose life have be change forever . this be the bad terror attack in Israel ' s history . we be all relieve to see the first return of hostage back to their love one under the recent ceasefire agreement , include , as the Minister say , the british - israeli national Emily Damari . we pray for their good health , and I sincerely hope they can now begin to rebuild their life after the most unimaginable trauma . none of the hostage or their family ever deserve to be put through this nightmare . remember the Holocaust be something that we must continue to do every day and every year ; it can not be forget . this debate be just one way of do that , and it be the responsibility of all of we to do so in our own way . indeed , my wife and I take our child to the Holocaust gallery at the Imperial War Museum , which be a very solemn and sober experience for we all . that day we also visit the Kindertransport memorial at Liverpool Street station . how proud we should be of those people , such as Nicholas Winton , who play their part to help jewish people flee the horror of Nazi persecution , save countless life and offer hope to those face darkness . it be also important that we take this opportunity to remember all those kill in genocide around the world . we remember the atrocity in Rwanda , where over 800 , 000 people be murder . this year also mark 30 year since the Srebrenica massacre in Bosnia , where more than 8 , 000 mainly man and boy be kill in just a few day by bosnian serb force . Most be kill in an organised and systemic fashion , blindfold and shoot . while it be mainly man and boy who be murder , thousand of woman and girl suffer unthinkable violence and sexual abuse , include rape and torture , with thousand more , include child and the elderly , abuse and displace . those horror remind we of the vital importance of stand against hate wherever it arise . that be why this debate on Holocaust Memorial Day be so important . we must stamp out antisemitism and stop it impact the life of british Jews and Jews around the world , but we also owe it to the memory of all victim of genocide to educate future generation and to work tirelessly to prevent history repeat itself . let we honour their memory by build a well future , free from hate , division and violence . each year , Holocaust Memorial Day serve as a powerful reminder of the horror that humanity be capable of inflict , and of where antisemitism can lead . for I , this day be not just a time to remember the 6 million Jews murder across Europe , but an opportunity to reflect on their personal story , include my own family ' s . critically , this day be also a chance to renew our solemn pledge , " never again , " which have particular meaning for I and my family . my father be a Holocaust survivor . he be bear in Budapest in 1943 . in spring 1944 , after Nazi Germany invade Hungary , he be herd , along with ten of thousand of other Jews , into the ghetto in Munk á cs , his mother ' s hometown . over just two month , more than 437 , 000 hungarian Jews be deport to Auschwitz , the vast majority of whom be murder . many member of my family count among their number and do not survive , but my father do and so do my grandmother , thank to the extraordinary bravery of a woman name Maria . in a last desperate throw of the dice , my family entrust my infant father to her care . she risk everything to smuggle he , and a short time later my grandmother , out of the ghetto just day before it be liquidate . Maria ' s courage be extraordinary . her willingness to risk her own freedom , and maybe even her own life , for a stranger and her child be a testament to the power of human decency even in the darkest of time . I often think of what the last tearful meeting , where my great - grandparent bade farewell to my father , barely 10 month old , know that they would never see he again , must have be like . I think of my grandmother , force to live under a false identity for the remainder of the war , not know what happen to her family . and I think of Maria , whom I never meet and who I know little about , but to whom I owe so much . in these moment , the enormity of what happen hit I hard . a few year ago , I take my family to the Holocaust memorial at Yad Vashem . there , in its file of those who perish , I look up my family on my father ' s father ' s side . now , my name be pretty unusual , but among the name of those who be murder I find literally hundred of Duschinskys . I know I be not alone in that ; my family ' s story be far from unique . there be million of jewish family with story like mine : story of loss , trauma and persecution , but also of survival . and not just jewish family ; there be so many other — other victim of nazi persecution , as well as survivor of the rwandan genocide , and those in Bosnia , Darfur and Cambodia , who have similar story to tell . victim of hatred , victim of persecution , they be bind together by a common experience and a common humanity . Holocaust Memorial Day be particularly important this year . it come at a moment of dawn hope after 15 month of darkness , with the release of three hostage , include Emily Damari , and a ceasefire in Gaza . I pray for the safe release of all the hostage , for the ceasefire to be sustain , and for we to take the first step towards a sustained peace . but 27 January be also critically important this year because it mark the 80th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz . it be a hugely significant milestone . for those of we who know survivor , it will be the last major anniversary when we have they with we . in Hendon , we be enormously proud of the work of our local survivor , include Manfred Goldberg , Renee Salt , Vera Schaufeld , Peter and Marianne Summerfield , and my good friend Rabbi Bernd Koschland , all of whom have do so much work to raise awareness . yet with each anniversary , the Holocaust slowly but surely slip from live memory . as the generation of survivor pass on , so the responsibility fall upon we to ensure that their story endure . the torch of remembrance be be pass and it be down to we , the people here today , to safeguard the memory of the Holocaust : to spread understanding , tell its story and keep they alive for our child and grandchild . this be not just about the number and statistic ; we must remember the people , the family , the community . we must speak for they and , where we can , make sure their story and voice be hear , especially in an age when misinformation proliferate . when truth compete with a blizzard of distortion and lie , and when conspiratorial thinking and shrill rhetoric numb we to true horror , we can not rely on the fact of the Holocaust alone to speak for themselves . we must tell its story insistently and repeatedly , and make sure they reach every ear . that be why the work of the Holocaust Memorial Day Trust in run Holocaust Memorial Day be so important , and why the work of the Holocaust Educational Trust , the Association of jewish Refugees and so many other charity be so vital . it be why the Government ' s pledge to ensure that the Holocaust will be at the core of a national curriculum that be teach in every school be so welcome , as be the extra £ 2 million in funding for the HET . it be also why the deep personal commitment of the Prime Minister , see in his strong advocacy and his recent trip to Auschwitz , be so critical . this anniversary be not just about remembering . it be about reaffirm our collective commitment to the value that ensure such atrocity can never happen again . that be why the importance of Holocaust Memorial Day can not be overstate . it be not only a time of reflection , but a time of vigilance and a time when we renew our vow to act , because , as history often remind we , prejudice and bigotry be light sleeper . at a time when antisemitic incident be up over 1 , 500 % , we can see that hatred , particularly the world ' s old hatred , be never fully vanquish . it must be fight and defeat anew with every generation . in Britain , we take pride in our pluralistic society , a society where people be free to practice their religion , express their identity and live without fear of persecution , but we must always remember that those freedom must never be take for grant . they be the product of a long history of struggle and sacrifice , and they be something we must constantly protect and defend in our politic , our rhetoric and our daily life . we can all play our part . this come Monday , at 7 pm , I urge everyone who can to tune in to BBC one for the national ceremony of commemoration . at 8 pm , I ask everyone to light a candle and put it in their window — a light in the darkness to keep memory alive . the theme of this year ' s Holocaust Memorial Day be " for a well future . " the path to a well future , one where tolerance and mutual respect trump division and bigotry , lie in a steadfast defence of our value and a willingness to confront hate . the foundation of this determination in turn rest on our collective remembrance of the Holocaust and our determination to tell its story and echo its truth down the generation . I know something about that , because that be the path my family trod . it seem unlikely that a baby boy in a ghetto leave his family in the arm of a stranger might be on a path to a well future , but because of their decency and bravery he find his way to a place of safety . he travel to a new country that be a bastion of those value , a country in which his son be able to carry his family name , a name that be on the verge of extinction , into Parliament and sit surround by so many colleague whose own family story be mark by hardship and oppression . that be why I be so proud to sit here and to be a co - sponsor of this debate . the lesson this journey teach we be that a path to a well future be possible if we work together to build it . on this Holocaust Memorial Day , we should renew our determination to strive to build it every day . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it be a privilege to speak in this debate , and it be humble to follow the hon . member for Hendon ( David Pinto - Duschinsky ) ; I thank he for his incredible testimony about his family . I pay tribute to Mr Speaker and his office for the move parliamentary ceremony yesterday , especially the testimony of Yisrael and Alf , who both survive the Nazi Holocaust . to mark this event in the same week as the fragile ceasefire in the middle east and the release of Emily Damari and two other hostage make it even more poignant . when my son Isaac be nine , his school , Springdale First , hold a world war two tea . child be invite to bring a grandparent to share their memory of live through the war , but he come home distressed because my parent — his grandparent — be not bear until several year after its end . be an ingenious child , he knock on the door of our neighbour Margaret and ask she to be his adoptive grandmother for the day , so that she could share her memory with his classmate and enjoy the wartime entertainment , which include his singing of " we ' ll meet Again " . I tell this story because , as the live memory of the Holocaust reduce , it be more important than ever that each of we keep it alive through our own annual act of remembrance and in call out antisemitism and all act of discrimination and hate against group because of their faith , nationality or identity . twelve year ago , I visit Israel and Palestine as part of a liberal Democrat delegation , during which we make a trip to Yad Vashem , the Holocaust museum . the experience stay with I for many reason , but the thing that strike I hard be what come well before the death camp like Auschwitz : a decade of dehumanise a whole community ; of family be reward with crate of beer for betray their neighbour ; of the boycotting of jewish business , the burning of jewish author book and , most strikingly , the sale of ashtray depict so - call jewish face on they , so that people could stub out cigarette on their face , help to foster the feeling that Jews be not really people at all . last Sunday , I attend a Holocaust memorial event in Wimborne Minster in my constituency . the service , which can be see on the minster ' s YouTube page , be base around the book " Violins of Hope " and accompany by the haunting playing of piece of music reminiscent of that time by classical violinist Emma - Marie Kabanova , herself a refugee from Ukraine . as well as the account of those whose music continue to be play in the camp , maintain hope and retain their humanity , some of the testimony we hear share more about what come before the war — how jewish people be force to leave their home and their business , how they flee in boat from european shore to reach Palestine but be refuse landing or , bad , die at sea . I close my eye to listen to the simplicity of the violin play in the minster , as the word of those who live through that horror be share with we all . the contrast between the evil perpetrate in the name of power and ideology and the selflessness of those condemn to death for something they could not control be incredibly move . by the end of the Holocaust , as we know , 6 million jewish man , woman and child have be murder in ghetto , mass shooting , concentration camp and death camp . in addition , and often forget , be the other group target by the Nazis for extermination , among they Romani Gypsies , those with disability , gay and bisexual man and black people . this year carry a special significance , as we mark 80 year since the liberation of Auschwitz - Birkenau . next Sunday I will be attend the Poole Lighthouse Holocaust memorial event , as I do every year , at which candle be light for the victim of not only the Nazi Holocaust but later genocide , all of which unbelievably occur within my lifetime , in Cambodia , Rwanda , Bosnia and Darfur . that be what Holocaust Memorial Day be for : look backwards to look forwards . the theme of Holocaust Memorial Day this year be " for a well future " , so I return to my son , Isaac . at the age of 12 , he join his fellow Broadstone scout on a european adventure focus on world war two . they travel across several country , alternate light - hearted activity day with visit to the Colditz castle prisoner of war camp , to Auschwitz and , on their return , to the Menin Gate to see the war grave and witness the last post at sunset . we think carefully about whether he be too young for such a trip and whether he could really understand what he be see , but I have see the positive impact of that trip on he . the relationship that we all build with history and truth go some way to structure our perspective in adulthood and prevent our susceptibility to dangerous narrative . the work of the Holocaust Educational Trust in training and support hundred of teacher each year to help we all learn from the past and work towards a more united future , and of the Antisemitism Policy Trust in training decision maker like we , should be commend and support . as my party ' s spokesperson for housing , community and local government , it should not be surprising that I will say there be a role for our community to play too . at a time of rise antisemitism and Islamophobia , many UK community be feel vulnerable , with hostility and suspicion of other rise . the Home Office ' s own statistic reveal that the number of religious hate crime record in the year to March 2024 have rocket , which it have directly attribute to a spike in anti - jewish hate . we have also see inconsistent response from the police to language and behaviour that may well be antisemitic or view as hate crime . I call on the Government to ensure that the police have the resource and , most importantly , the training they need to respond effectively and swiftly to antisemitic hate crime , and to provide funding for security organisation such as the Community Security Trust . we must speak up against Holocaust and genocide denial and distortion . we must challenge prejudice . we be tell by Holocaust survivor Alf Garwood in Mr Speaker ' s service yesterday : " when my parent be come to term with their trauma after the war , I see what their hate towards those who have destroy our life do to they . hate only poison they . " we must all continue to remember , and to work for peace and understanding at a time when the world feel fragile , and we in this place must lead that work together for a well future . it be a pleasure to take part in this debate and to listen to the powerful testimony from my hon . friend the Member for Hendon ( David Pinto - Duschinsky ) . racism and antisemitism be on the rise — that be without a doubt . it be on the rise behind closed door . it be on the rise on the dark web . it be also hide in plain sight . we have see an acceleration since 7 October . when my constituent Noam ' s mum Ada be kidnap and hold hostage , we work tirelessly day and night for her release , and luckily we see that day . Noam be always say that we must strive for peace and that only light when we enter a dark room will make we see clearly . it be really important that we mark the Holocaust every year in this debate . although I be not so well — I apologise for my voice today — I want to come in to mark this day , because hate can not win , and we have to show time and again that there be more of we than there be of they . this debate stand as a warning of the depth of cruelty and hatred that can be release when prejudice be allow to grow unchecked and unchallenged . we can not allow that , especially in this place . in my constituency , Brent council mark Holocaust Memorial Day every single year , and this year we will mark it in the iconic Wembley stadium . local event bring people together from all background to share in remembrance , unite in the mantra of " never again " , foster great understanding and strong bond within our community . as the Holocaust Memorial Day website state : " follow the 7 October attack in Israel by Hamas and the subsequent war in Gaza . extremist be exploit the situation to stir up anti - muslim hatred in the UK . many UK community be feel vulnerable , with hostility and suspicion of other rise . we hope that HMD 2025 can be an opportunity for people to come together , learn both from and about the past , and take action to make a well future for all . there be many thing we can all do to create a well future . we can speak up against Holocaust and genocide denial and distortion ; we can challenge prejudice ; we can encourage other to learn about the Holocaust and more recent genocide . " I be proud to be work with local rabbi in Brent East , such as Rabbi Mason , and other to bring everyone together , include african - caribbean and jewish people , to fight against the rise of prejudice and discrimination . together we can strengthen our ability to challenge hatred in all its form . as we have hear , the choose theme for Holocaust Memorial Day be " for a well future " , which call on all of we to actively work towards create a society that stand up against hatred and prejudice . we know that antisemitism have rise alarmingly in recent year , and we each have a responsibility to confront toxic belief wherever they appear , regardless of who be act on they . we can not afford to be gaslit and to allow hateful ideology to resurface in the mainstream . we have a collective responsibility to call out such action and ensure that they do not gain traction . as we come together on this important day , we have to ensure that our remembrance be accompany by action . genocide and crime against humanity be not inevitable , and we can prevent they . we must raise the alarm when we witness dangerous rhetoric and divisive action and symbol , and we must hold perpetrator accountable . however , the reality be that people be often scared because someone else with more power say otherwise . they be scared of be incorrectly label , scare of the unintended consequence . we must not forget that genocide do not come about overnight ; rather , it be a gradual process . even though it can sometimes seem scary , especially for those who be not in the in - crowd , hatred can not and must not be normalise if we be truly to look towards a well future . if you be the last person stand and call at the top of your voice for peace and love , that must be the ultimate goal for a well future . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) . I wish she well in her recovery from cold and flu . I thank the Government for put on this debate and for make sure that we continue to honour the victim of the Holocaust , and I thank the Minister for both the tone and content of his opening speech . I declare my interest as co - chairman of the all - party parliamentary group on Holocaust memorial since its formation in 2018 , and I be also proud to chair the all - party parliamentary group on UK - Israel . this Holocaust Memorial Day be particularly prominent and poignant , as it mark the 80th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz - Birkenau , the large concentration camp during the war . time be go quickly , and many of the courageous and inspirational survivor be sadly pass away , so it be important that we preserve their memory and story , and teach the next generation , so that we do not make the same mistake again . I think I have speak in every Holocaust memorial debate since I be elect in 2010 , and today I will focus on the origin of the Holocaust , and on how the United Kingdom could and should have do more to prevent it . the Holocaust be one of the most tragic event the world have ever see . the brutal , systematic murder of 6 million jewish man , woman and child by the Nazis in Germany and their collaborator during the second world war must always serve as a stark reminder of the evil that can be perpetrate by humankind . the jewish genocide do not officially start until January 1939 , but Jews have be irrationally target throughout the century , date back to as early as 270 BC . I do not intend to go through the history of that . let we fast forward to the end of the great war , when the escalation of antisemitism be about to begin . the ally force sanction Germany extremely harshly at the end of the great war . Germany have to accept full blame for the war and pay £ 6 . 6 billion — in today ' s money , that be a huge amount — because of the damage it cause during the war . alsace - Lorraine , which have be take from France by Germany in the 1871 war , be return to the French , and the Anschluss be ban . Germany be allow to have only 100 , 000 soldier , with no tank and no air force , and its navy could have a maximum of six battleship . the Rhineland , an area of Germany on the border with France , be demilitarised , and Woodrow Wilson ' s idea for a League of Nations be agree to . the reparation cause immense problem for the german people , who universally believe that they be too harsh , not least because of the damage and instability that they cause to the german economy . many hold a lot of anger and be ready to shift their blame , which fall on the Jews . shortly after that be the great depression , spark by the Wall Street stock market crash of 1929 . economy across the globe be affect , lead to a crisis in world trade , price and employment . almost overnight , the regular loan from the United States through the Dawes plan , on which the german economy depend , cease . Hitler , a rise star in the german political scene at the time , promise that the humiliation of Versailles would be avenge and that Germany would be make great again . many Germans believe that they have be betray by the high command of the army in the great war , and they be tired of endless ineffective coalition government follow the war . Hitler have no connection to the elite , and he offer a new beginning . Most of all , he promise job and bread at a time when unemployment and poverty be at extremely high level . it be important to ask the question : if we have act differently after the great war , would Hitler ever have come to power ? of course , we know that he do and that his Nazis embark on a systematic and deliberate attempt at extinguish the jewish race across Europe . next Monday mark the 80th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz , which be the large concentration and extermination camp use by the Nazis . the site consist of Auschwitz I , which be the main camp ; Auschwitz II - Birkenau , a concentration and extermination camp with gas chamber and incinerator ; Auschwitz III - Monowitz , a labour camp for the chemical conglomerate IG Farben ; and dozen of other sub - camp . the camp become a major site of the Nazis ' horrific final solution to the jewish question . between 1942 and late 1944 , freight train deliver Jews from all over Nazi - occupy Europe , and collaborator from across those different country join in . a shocking 1 . 3 million people be send to Auschwitz , where 1 . 1 million be sadly murder . some 960 , 000 be Jews , 865 , 000 of whom be gas on arrival , have be single out for immediate extinction . about 74 , 000 non - jewish Poles , 21 , 000 Romani , 15 , 000 soviet prisoner of war and 15 , 000 other be also kill . those who be send to the camp but escape be gas be murder through starvation , exhaustion , disease , individual execution or beating . other be kill during torturous medical experiment — we should remember what that must have be like . the first mass transport to arrive at Auschwitz , on 14 June 1940 , contain 728 polish male political prisoner , include catholic priest and Jews . by 1942 , transport be arrive regularly , contain thousand of Jews who be all earmark for execution . if inmate be lucky enough not to be send straight to the gas chamber on arrival , they be send to the prisoner reception centre , where they be tattooed , shave , disinfect and give a striped prison uniform . the horror escalate dramatically from there . youth and fitness for work gain prisoner a temporary reprieve from the gas chamber . from the time they enter Auschwitz - Birkenau , everything be do to debase and dehumanise the Jews . their immediate gassing be delay in order to rob they of their individuality . each be identify solely by the number that he or she be designate . the day would start at 4 . 30 be with a roll call . prisoner would walk to their place of work , wear striped uniform and ill - fitting wooden shoe without sock . Kapos , the prisoner supervisor , be responsible for the prisoner ' behaviour and conformity while they work , as be an SS escort . the work day last 12 hour and be mark by torture and fatigue . much of the work take place at construction site , quarry and lumber yard . visit to the latrine be permit only at designate time , not when nature call . work be carry out in the shadow and smoke of the crematoria chimney that burn incessantly day and night , burn the body of murder Jews and other , invariably include the family member of those force to work . the belching smoke be a constant reminder of their potential fate . in the evening , after block inspection , there be a second mandatory roll call . if a prisoner be miss , the other have to remain in place until he or she be find , or the reason for his or her absence discover . after roll call , individual and collective punishment be mete out before the prisoner be permit to return to their barrack for the night and receive their bread ration and water . prisoner receive a hot drink in the morning , but no breakfast , and a watery , meatless turnip soup at noon . in the evening , they receive a small ration of bread . at no time do their daily intake exceed 700 calorie . sanitary condition be poor , with inadequate latrine and a lack of water . the camp be infest with vermin , such as disease - carry lice . inmate suffer and die during epidemic of typhus and other contagious disease . while we commemorate 80 year since Auschwitz be liberate , it be important to note that there be 23 main camp across Europe , each with a series of internal camp , total over 1 , 000 camp in all — all dedicate to the torture and extermination of the jewish community . to implement the final solution during the latter year of the war , the Nazis build extermination camp on polish soil . we must remember Chelmno , Belzec , Sobibor , Treblinka , Majdanek and , of course , Auschwitz - Birkenau . I commend the Holocaust Memorial Day Trust and the Holocaust Educational Trust for their brilliant work to educate we about the horror that people endure . I urge the Minister to confirm funding for the Holocaust Educational Trust ' s wonderful " lesson from Auschwitz " programme so that young people can learn what happen . it be clear that the Nazis deliberately set out to kill the 6 million Jews , but there be many action that we in the UK and the United States could have take . Auschwitz be access by a vast network of rail route , bring train full of Jews from across Europe . at no point do the ally force choose to bomb those rail network to prevent access to the camp . in 1944 , the US Department of War refuse multiple request from jewish leader to bomb the railway line lead to the camp , despite 452 bomber of the 15th Air Force fly along and across the deportation railway line on their way to bomb the Blechhammer oil refinery just week later . time and again , military commander say that a precision strike on the camp have no chance of success . however , no study be ever make . proposal to drop weapon into the camp to enable a rebellion be consider but abandon . from 1942 to 1943 , british intelligence be regularly able to intercept and decode radio message send by the german order police , which include daily prisoner return and death toll for the 10 concentration camp , include Auschwitz , yet no action be take . another common argument be that the ally do not know the number and the horror of the camp until after the war , despite the fact that hundred of prisoner escape and describe their ordeal . the US Office of Strategic Services , the predecessor of the Central Intelligence Agency that have be establish in 1941 - 42 to co - ordinate intelligence and espionage activity in enemy territory , have receive report about Auschwitz in 1942 , but no action be take to target the camp . on 7 April 1944 , two young jewish inmate who have escape from the camp , Rudolf Vrba and Alfr é d Wetzler , publish detailed information about the camp ' s geography , the gas chamber and the number be kill . Roswell McClelland , the US War Refugee Board representative in Switzerland , be know to have receive a copy by mid - June and send it to the board ' s executive director , but no action be take . we be 80 year on from the liberation of Auschwitz . antisemitism have increase significantly in the UK and globally follow the 7 October attack by Hamas and the subsequent war in Gaza . many UK community feel vulnerable , with hostility and suspicion of other rise . we hope that Holocaust Memorial Day 2025 can be an opportunity for people to come together , learn from and about the past , and take action to make a well future for all . I finish on two point . first , it be extremely concern to see the stark rise in open antisemitism on our street follow the 7 October attack on Israel by the terrorist organisation Hamas . jewish people be afraid to go about their life , and have to hide their identity for fear of be attack in their own country . we have reiterate , time and again , that the Holocaust must serve as a reminder that we must never allow such persecution of any race or religion , so we must make a conscious effort to stand up against such violation on our own street . secondly , the Minister kindly mention the Holocaust Memorial Bill , which be go through Parliament . sadly , as time move forward , survivor be pass , and there be few and few to share their story . it be crucial that we enable the Holocaust memorial to be build alongside this place , together with the education centre , so that future generation can learn the true horror of what happen during the war and pass it on to their child , so that we never allow history to repeat itself . I have have the privilege of visit the original Yad Vashem and the modern - day Yad Vashem . those who visit will know the horror that the jewish people encounter , and it be hard to express those horror . we must make the Bill ' s passage a matter of urgency , so that the few Holocaust survivor still with we can see the centre for themselves and be proud of the amazing work they have do in share their story . I leave the House with the poignant word of Sir Ben Helfgott MBE , a Holocaust survivor and successful olympic weightlifter . his word should resonate with we all when assess the urgency of this project : " I look forward to one day take my family to the new national memorial and learn centre , tell the story of Britain and the Holocaust . and one day , I hope that my child and grandchild will take their child and grandchild , and that they will remember all those who come before they , include my mother , Sara , my sister , Luisa , and my father , Moishe . " sadly , Sir Ben die last year . I have no doubt that , through the memorial and learn centre , his memory and story will live on for his child , grandchild and generation to come , so that we can all learn the lesson of the Holocaust and vow never to repeat they . it be an immense privilege to speak in this debate and express my heartfelt support for Holocaust Memorial Day . this day be not merely a reflection on a single tragedy in human history ; it be a time to remember the 6 million jewish man , woman and child murder during the Holocaust and to honour those who survive . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Hendon ( David Pinto - Duschinsky ) for such a moving , personal speech on the importance of honour those who survive . the theme for this year , " for a well future " , resonate deeply ; it call on each of we to reflect on our role in build a more peaceful society . it remind we that we all share a collective responsibility to ensure that no one suffer prejudice , discrimination or violence because of their faith , ethnicity or any other characteristic . five week before the horrific massacre commit by Hamas in 2023 , I have the opportunity to visit Israel and the palestinian territory as part of a delegation . during that visit , I meet leader from both side of a long - stand conflict . I also witness something that leave a lasting impression on I : young people , both jewish Israelis and Muslim Palestinians , who be critical of their leader but unite in their share desire for peace . they , like we , want an end to the cycle of violence ; and they want leadership that will guide they towards a well future . that be a message that I will hold on to . during my visit , I have the profound honour of experience Yad Vashem . the exhibit , document , testimony and historical artefact tell a story that be truly harrowing . what strike I most be the reminder that the Holocaust do not occur in isolation or overnight , but be the culmination of year of cultivate hatred , prejudice and dehumanisation . the horror of the Holocaust be not just the atrocity itself ; it be the slow erosion of civility and the gradual unravelling of humanity . that be why we must continue to resist antisemitism , Islamophobia and all discrimination and persecution in every form . Holocaust Memorial Day be about understand how hatred creep into society , and how we as individual and community must prevent they from take root again . education play a vital role in that process , and I welcome this Government ' s announcement , and the focus on teach the Holocaust , so that we ensure that pupil understand why and how it happen . more locally , I want to express my sincere gratitude to Joan Livesey for her dedication in organise Holocaust memorial event in my constituency and beyond . her work with school to engage young people in learn about the Holocaust be essential in ensure that that history be never forget . one such event will be hold at Leigh Film Factory : a poignant screening of " Sophie Scholl : the Final Days " . those effort be crucial . they create space for community to come together to reflect on such horrific event . they also remind we of the value we must all work towards in this House : tolerance , acceptance and mutual respect for all people , regardless of their background . wherever hatred exist , whether it be in the UK or elsewhere , we must challenge it . we must confront the language of hate and bigotry wherever it be find , and ensure that we never allow those force to gain a foothold again . I be pleased to contribute to this important debate . I thank those individual and organisation that work throughout the year to ensure that Holocaust Memorial Day be commemorate , and that our young people in particular be remind of the horror of the past and encourage to work towards the peace that all right - think people seek . as member will be aware , Holocaust Memorial Day fall every year on 27 January . as have be mention , that be the date when the notorious Auschwitz - Birkenau camp be liberate . this year , the date mark 80 year since that liberation , and it be just as important now as it have be in any year to remember the 6 million jewish victim of the Holocaust , and the million of other victim of nazi persecution , along with those who have be victim of genocide since then . sadly , 80 year on , antisemitism be at an all - time high , as be anti - muslim hatred . for that reason , I want to focus on the Srebrenica genocide , which take place in July 1995 during the bosnian war . despite the international community pledge after the Holocaust that mass atrocity would never again occur , they have remain a feature of the world since world war two , as we see in Bosnia just 30 year ago . while I be work as the constituency agent for the Father of the House , my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , I study part time at Lincoln University for a politics degree . one of the unit be on the break - up of the former Yugoslavia . when I be fortunate enough to be elect to this House , I become involved in the all - party group for the western balkan nation , and be then appoint the Prime Minister ' s trade envoy to that region . I have visit Srebrenica on two occasion , and I challenge anyone who visit a site where genocide have take place to be anything other than move by the experience . how can such evil be perpetrate ? there seem to be no end to man ' s inhumanity to man . the same emotion be stir when visit war grave in France , Belgium or elsewhere . in 2012 , I be part of a delegation to Gaza . thing be bad there then , but they be much bad now . one of my abide memory be of visit the Commonwealth war grave cemetery there . it be small compare to many , but as we be remind in November each year , the tombstone stand row on row . the local man and his son who care for the grave — if I remember correctly , the man ' s name be Ibrahim — do so much , with as much care as if they be tend to their own family plot . when focus on the evil that be perpetrate in our world , we must never lose sight of the goodness exemplify by those who , like Ibrahim , show love and care — often , as in that cemetery in Gaza , for those they never know . both of my visit to Srebrenica be lead by our former colleague , Colonel Bob Stewart , whose affection for the country and its people be self - evident ; we be privileged to witness his interaction with local people . in 1995 , there be 8 , 372 Bosniak muslim man and boy murder during the massacre of Srebrenica . those murder be mainly commit by unit of the bosnian Serb Army of Republika Srpska in what be recognise as the bad crime on european soil since world war two . I understand that the massacre in Srebrenica , a town in eastern Bosnia and Herzegovina , be the first legally recognise genocide in Europe since the end of world war two . those event follow Bosnia declare independence from Yugoslavia in 1992 , a move that be resist by the bosnian serb population , who want to be part of a great Serbia . sadly , bosnian Serbs be prepared to achieve that goal by isolate ethnic group — their own neighbour — and , if necessary , exterminate they . a campaign of war crime , ethnic cleansing and genocide be commit on the non - serb population of the former Yugoslavia , and the bosnian war culminate in the death of around 100 , 000 people and the displacement of more than 2 million man , woman and child . in July 1995 , bosnian serb troop and paramilitary descend on the town of Srebrenica and begin shell it . when those troop take the town , they proceed to separate Bosniak man and boy over the age of 12 from woman and young child . over the course of several day , more than 8 , 000 Bosniak muslim man and boy be murder in and around Srebrenica , merely because of their ethnicity . shockingly , the perpetrator be often former neighbour , classmate and teacher of those they persecute . they murder both young and old ; I understand that the eld be 94 year old and the young nearly five . they be kill in some of the most brutal and barbaric way imaginable , and their body be bulldoze into mass grave in an attempt to conceal they . the testimony of survivor be harrowing . there be report of child be murder by soldier with knife , the body of elderly man lie on the ground with their eye gouge out , and the mass rape of woman and even child . one can find it very difficult to believe the horror that man be capable of , and when visit Srebrenica , one be remind of the evil that can take place , even in mainland Europe . in fact , it be important that we note that those atrocity do not take place in some faraway land in an age long past , but right here in Europe , on our doorstep , less than three decade ago . many of the child who witness these atrocity at first hand , who see thing that no child should ever see , be adult now with young child of their own — that be how recent this genocide be . as such , the commemoration of these event should serve as a warning to we all , particularly those in government or in position of influence , of what can happen here in Europe , which , in the main , in the post - war period , we tend to think of as civilised , safe and secure , particularly compare with many part of this troubled — and become ever more troubled — world . Holocaust Memorial Day remind we where prejudice , fear and hatred can lead , particularly if they become normalise and encourage . the theme for Holocaust Memorial Day 2025 be " for a well future . " it be only by learn from the past that we can strive for that well future . evil can , it seem , enter the heart and mind of man of all race and creed . as the Service of Compline , in the Book of Common Prayer , say , we must " be vigilant , because our adversary the devil , as a roar lion , walketh about , seek whom he may devour . " those be stark word . sadly , the devil can enter the heart of people , especially when propaganda and evil leadership be involve . we must never forget the brutality of which man be capable , and it be right that we use parliamentary time to commemorate these horrific event . the atrocity now take place across the world remind we that we must remain eternally vigilant . the UK ' s voice on this matter be important and I be proud that we have contribute , over many generation , to the attempt to bring peace and stability to many troubled part of the world . the tragic event of the Holocaust , and of other genocide since then , such as at Srebrenica , must never be forget , and we must continue to speak out on this issue if we hope for our child and our grandchild to have a well future . I thank the Minister and the shadow Minister for their contribution . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Hendon ( David Pinto - Duschinsky ) for the move story about his family . like many other member who have speak today , I too have visit Yad Vashem — in July 2023 . nothing quite prepare you to stand in the Hall of Names , surround by the image of those who perish in the Holocaust and the Pages of Testimony that detail their life — live so cruelly and brutally cut short by the great act of mass murder in human history . to describe they simply as victim robs they once again of their humanity , dignity and individuality . as Benjamin Fondane , the french - romanian poet who be murder at Auschwitz just three month before its liberation , write : " remember only that I be innocent and , just like you , mortal on that day . I , too , have have a face mark by rage , by pity and joy , quite simply , a human face ! " two day after visit Yad Vashem , I visit Kibbutz Kfar Aza , a quiet , unassuming kibbutz close to the border with Gaza , found on socialist principle by Mizrahi refugee from Morocco and Egypt in 1951 . none of we who visit that day know that within week its peace and tranquillity would be shatter , the kibbutznik would be rape and murder , and hostage would be take , include our own Emily Damari , whose release alongside the two other hostage at the weekend have provide a glimmer of light in the darkness . now we must make sure that all the hostage come home to their family . none of we know that day that on 7 October 2023 the jewish people would suffer the bloodiest day in their history since the terrible event of eight decade ago , which we mark today . that modern - day pogrom be commit by Hamas , an organisation that share the same genocidal aspiration and sadistic fervour of those who perpetrate the Holocaust . and none of we know that day that within hour of those terrorist attack , Britain would see the first wave of antisemitic incident , which last year reach their high - ever record total . it be beyond shameful that , in 21st - century Britain , jewish place of worship be deface and graffitie , and require protection by security guard ; that jewish pupil be unable to wear their uniform on the way to school ; and that jewish student be intimidate on our campus . all the while , antisemite take to our street chant for Jihad , glorify Hamas ' s crime , and compare the state of Israel to those who seek to annihilate European Jewry less than a century ago . but Britain be not unique . in Amsterdam , israeli football fan have be hunt , attack and abuse on the eve of the anniversary of Kristallnacht . in Melbourne , a synagogue be set alight while worshipper be sit inside . and in the UAE , a young rabbi be kidnap and murder . each one of these crime remind we that hatred against Jews and hatred against the world ' s jewish state can not be separate . Anti - zionist antisemitism be simply the late iteration of history ' s old hatred . as the Prime Minister rightly say last week while visit Auschwitz : ' but where be " never again " , when we see the poison of antisemitism rise around the world in the aftermath of 7 October ? ' I be proud that our Prime Minister and this Government be commit to tackle that evil . I commend the Board of Deputies of British Jews , the jewish Leadership Council , the Community Security Trust , the Holocaust Educational Trust , the Holocaust Memorial Day Trust and all those other who work day in , day out to fight antisemitism and to teach our child and young people of the utter horror that can be unleash if it go unchallenged . the battle against antisemitism and hatred must be fight on many front , and it be on all of we to join that fight . for a well future , we can not be bystander . I wish to close with the word of Elie Wiesel on the peril of indifference and the danger of passivity : " we must always take side . neutrality help the oppressor , never the victim . silence encourage the tormentor , never the tormented . " I be very grateful to the Government for make time for the House to debate the important topic of Holocaust remembrance ahead of Monday ' s Holocaust Memorial Day , a day of solemn remembrance and reflection . on that day , 80 year will have pass since the death camp Auschwitz - Birkenau be liberate , yet the memory remain as poignant as ever , largely due to the day that we mark every year . six million jewish man , woman and child be brutally murder by the Nazis , and million of other suffer under Nazi persecution . the Holocaust be a crime of such magnitude that a new word be coin by the polish lawyer Raphael Lemkin to describe its horror : genocide . today we also remember the victim of more recent genocide , include those in Bosnia , Rwanda , Cambodia and Darfur . those atrocity be a stark reminder that hatred and intolerance , if leave unchecked , can have devastating consequence , inflict terror and eradicate entire community . such tragic event serve as stark reminder that we , as a global community , have not yet fully learn the lesson of the past , and the promise of " never again " be not one that we be do a good job of uphold . we can not stand by while radicalisation and hatred flame up around we , when 245 , 000 survivor of the Holocaust be still alive today . it have not even be a lifetime since the world promise justice at the Nuremberg trial , and promise " never again " , yet antisemitism be rise once more here in the UK and around the world . extremist voice be fuel division and fear , and exploit tension to spread further hatred , disinformation and cultural amnesia . we must remain vigilant , for one lesson of the Holocaust be that silence be never an option . in my constituency of Chichester we be proud to have a community that be commit to remembrance and education . over the past decade , Chichester Marks Holocaust Memorial Day have organise meaningful event , from ceremony hold in local assembly room to educational film and talk for our schoolchildren , ensure that future generation understand the impact of the Holocaust and the importance of stand up against prejudice and intolerance . this year , Chichester festival theatre will host " the last train to tomorrow " , an opera that tell the story of the Kindertransport , a rescue effort that bring 10 , 000 jewish child to safety here in the UK . such story remind we of our shared humanity , and the power of compassion in the face of unimaginable darkness . I praise the chair of Chichester Marks Holocaust Memorial Day , Councillor Clare Apel , whose dedication have be instrumental in make these event happen over the past decade . her personal connection to the Holocaust , have lose 50 member of her family , serve as a poignant reminder of why we should never forget . on Monday , a new blue plaque will be unveil as part of the Selsey heritage trail , to commemorate the part that Selsey play in help the Kindertransport child who come to the UK . plan be under way to establish a permanent memorial site in Chichester to honour the victim and educate generation to come . that initiative stand as a testament to our collective commitment to ensure that " never again " be not just a phrase but a call to action . the word " those who do not remember the past be condemn to repeat it " be inscribe at the memorial site at Auschwitz , so today we honour the survivor , the victim and those who continue to bear witness . it be our collective responsibility to carry forward their legacy , challenge hatred wherever we see it , and build a future base on understanding and respect for all . it be impossible to do justice to the scale of the horror witness by those enter Auschwitz - Birkenau when it be liberate 80 year ago . they find a death camp that be specifically design to facilitate starvation , force labour and the most chilling method of mechanised execution in human history . historian estimate that 1 . 1 million people perish at Auschwitz in just under five year . across the whole of Nazi - occupy Europe , 6 million jewish people be murder , and million more prisoner of war , political prisoner , Poles , disabled people , member of the LGBT community , Roma and other be slaughter . I find the speech of my hon . friend the Member for Hendon ( David Pinto - Duschinsky ) so move , and I will share my own family ' s story . one of those we believe be lose be my great - grandfather , a Polish Jew who emigrate to the UK and change our family ' s name in the face of antisemitism here . he return to Poland just before the second world war , and my family never hear from he again . that be just one reason I be proud that my constituency contain the Kirkcaldy polish club — branch no . 50 of the Association of Polish Combatants , set up across the UK after the second world war by heroic Poles who , together with so many other , resist nazi aggression . I read a letter write by Helen Oglethorpe , a british medic who be one of the first into Bergen - Belsen when it be liberate . the letter be date 28 May 1945 . she describe some of what she find : " we leave Holland on April 29th and come up to the Belsen Concentration Camp . it have be truly terrible and I never really believe what the newspaper tell we but it be even bad than that . the first few week we spend clear out all the SS and hungarian troop ' barrack and turn they into hospital and clean out the actual Concentration Camp . there be 52 , 000 living and 10 , 000 unburie dead in an area of about 1 sq . mile . one can ' t imagine it unless one have see it . a further 13 , 000 die on our hand in the next three or four week . we have medical student … work in the Concentration Camp pick out the people who might live and try to clean up a bit . " despite the Nazis ' attempt to strip their victim of their humanity , include by assign number to those hold in concentration camp , these people be not number or statistic ; they be human love by their family and citizen who contribute to the cultural , economic and social life of Europe . indeed , across the great city of Europe and beyond , each Holocaust memorial be mark by an attempt to remember these people by use their name . that be why I would like to commend the important work of the Holocaust Educational Trust . each year , as we have hear across the House , we lose Holocaust survivor , and the trust ' s effort to keep the story of survivor and victim alive ensure that we do not forget they or , indeed , what be do to they . the theme for Holocaust Memorial Day 2025 be " for a well future " . in the face of mass atrocity crime take place across the world , the need for we in this place and , indeed , globally to work for a well future could not be clear . we must learn the lesson of history , especially in this era of misinformation . we know what happen when antisemitism , hatred and prejudice be allow to flourish . we must do far more to prevent identity - base violence , genocide and mass atrocity crime . we must honour those who perish in the Holocaust and those who survive . I call Shockat Adam . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . " hate be the bad 4 letter word that exist " , say Holocaust survivor Mathilde Middleberg . I be deeply honour to be call in the debate . as movingly articulate by the hon . member for Hendon ( David Pinto - Duschinsky ) , 80 year have pass since the liberation of Auschwitz , but it be heartbreaking to see act of genocide , hate and evil still happen across the world and increase threat from a new wind of far - right . the horror of the camp must never be forget , and the testimony of the survivor be still ring in our ear and be as relevant today as they be 80 year ago , because what be 80 year in the history of the world but a blink of an eye ? yet , sadly , current event suggest that some people today need a reminder of the lesson of that horror . for the 75th anniversary of the liberation of Bergen - Belsen , the University of Leicester in my constituency publish extract from the east midland oral history archive of an interview with Leicester nurse Erti Wilford . Erti treat the survivor of Belsen for two year after its liberation by the British Army . she speak of approach Bergen - Belsen and smell the dreadful smell from as far away as five mile , say that she have : " never see so much suffering and lice and filth . at Belsen they be just bag of bone and it be just dreadful , but some of they live , it be quite incredible " . Erti recall the excitement of a camp doctor finally be allow to deliver a baby and return it back to its mother rather than hand it to a guard for execution . we must remember the name of Anne and Margot Frank , whose final resting place be Bergen - Belsen . they unfortunately die of typhus approximately a month before the liberation . one would hope that such experience mean that hate and genocidal and nazi action be a thing of the past , but sadly that be not the case . as articulate by the hon . member for Brigg and Immingham ( Martin Vickers ) , in Bosnia , the truck arrive and they say , " man , young and old , tall and short — get on and we will transport you to safety . " within two week , 8 , 000 muslim man , woman and child be execute . I commend hon . member for their contribution . would the hon . member join I in congratulate organisation such as Remembering Srebrenica , which have do so much to remember those muslim boy and man kill during the bosnian war , which be now some 30 year ago — we will be remember that anniversary this year — and to learn lesson as well ? I welcome that intervention . all the work be do be absolutely vital . we have see genocide in Rwanda , where close to 1 million Tutsi be kill , and now , as we speak , in Sudan . if " never again " mean anything , it mean that the international community must take decisive action to pursue the perpetrator through the International Court of Justice . instead , the far right be almost be indulge . early this week , people who riot on 6 January , who very much have far - right tendency , be forgive . many of they be radicalise online . this year ' s Holocaust Memorial Day theme be to take action " for a well future " . that be why I be delighted to hear from the Minister that education will remain a priority . if we do not learn the lesson of history , we will live they again . Inter - faith work be absolutely vital . that be why I be proud to have be part of a team that set up an inter - faith group so that religion can talk to each other , not point finger , and build bridge , not burn they . we must also take action against and hold social media firm and publisher to account for far - right misinformation . I end with the word of Elie Wiesel : " we must take side . neutrality help the oppressor , never the victim . silence encourage the tormentor , never the tormented . " it be a privilege to take part in this debate and to have hear so many poignant contribution . a number of member have speak about the importance of education , which increase yet far as time pass . next week , I have the distinct privilege of attend one of the " 80 candle for 80 year " event to mark the 80th anniversary . I be honour that the Lotus academy trust in my South West Norfolk constituency invite I to join that service and be part of a very special nationwide art and education project to mark the event . as a former youth worker , the importance of education and of continue the message be pertinent to I . the unimaginable horror and crime of the Holocaust be a defining moment in the 20th century . through event such as " 80 candle " , we keep alive the memory of those who lose their life under nazi persecution . on Monday , I will attend a Holocaust Memorial Day flag raising ceremony organise by Thetford town council in my constituency . I be pleased that for the first time ever , the council will fly the Holocaust Memorial Day flag . I pay tribute to the mayor of Thetford , Councillor Chris Harvey . it be fitting that the flag be be raise this year , during his term as mayor , to mark the 80th anniversary . as other member have do , I pay tribute those at the Holocaust Memorial Trust for their work . their impact on education over two decade be testament to their dedication and commitment . I have certainly benefit from their work . finally , as the Minister mention in his opening remark , we mark 25 year since Holocaust Memorial Day be create . the UK be one of the found signatory to the Stockholm declaration on Holocaust remembrance in 2000 — we should all be proud of that . alongside 45 other country , the UK Government be commit to preserve the memory of those who be murder in the Holocaust . I know that member on both side of the House stand by that commitment . we should never let it falter or waver . I call Cameron Thomas . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . " we have reach the bottom . it be not possible to sink low than this ; no human condition be more miserable than this , nor could it conceivably be so . nothing belong to we any more ; they have take away our clothe , our shoe , even our hair … they will even take away our name : and if we want to keep it , we will have to find ourselves the strength to do so , to manage somehow so that behind the name something of we , of we as we be , still remain . " " he who lose all often easily lose himself . " " my number be 174517 ; we have be baptize , we will carry the tattoo on our left arm until we die . " Prisoner 174517 be liberate from Auschwitz concentration camp in January 1945 , one of only 20 survive member of the 650 who have arrive on his transport 11 month early . he be liberate strictly in a physical sense , but remain torture by what he have experience until his death in 1987 . before his death , italian - jewish liberal Primo Levi write extensively about his experience . I recommend his collection of essay , " the Drowned and the Saved " , as one of the bleakest — yet most compelling — book I have ever read . my past visit to Dachau and Sachsenhausen camp cast long shadow in my memory . we be fortunate that those relic of this horror continue to haunt their landscape as foreboding reminder , but with the survive voice fade year on year , we must guard against the path that lead to Auschwitz . the Holocaust be unique in its industrialisation of genocide ; nothing so terrible at such scale have happen before , nor since . we must not delude ourselves that it could not . as the hon . member for Hendon ( David Pinto - Duschinsky ) say , " never again " must mean never again , and as the hon . member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) say , genocide do not occur overnight . the black shoot of fascism be intolerance . it be then — as it be now — spread throughout a frustrated population , appeal to their sense of national identity and stimulate a feeling of injustice . in this environment , nationalism fester and large group be mobilise by divisive populism that validate they as superior , but oppress by an imagine elite and undermine by minority . in 1920s and 1930s Germany , the Jews be both the imagine elite and the minority . today , we see various group demonise , include Jews , Muslims and refugee — it depend on the source . I recommend that member read a compilation of nazi propaganda , " the jewish Enemy " , by Jeffrey Herf . those who choose to read it will observe very clearly the parallel between such propaganda then and now . it be not a coincidence ; it be learn and it be finesse , with the same stereotype , the same accusation , the same divisive rhetoric , and the same risk of follow that same terrible path . we must not be fool by those who mislead we — who minimise , normalise and amplify the action and the rhetoric of division and fascism . those who do must be challenge , out and comprehensively defeat . I associate myself with the Minister ' s statement that remembrance without resolve be not enough . let we honour the memory of those who suffer the Holocaust by stand vigil to stave off its repeat . I , too , pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Hendon ( David Pinto - Duschinsky ) for his powerful and move testimony . his grandparent would be truly proud . as many have say , 2025 mark 80 year since the liberation of the Nazi concentration and death camp , and that awful milestone mean that this be likely to be the last landmark anniversary at which a significant number of Holocaust survivor will be present . Holocaust Memorial Day encourage we to remember , yes , the 6 million jewish man , woman and child murder by the Nazis and their collaborator during the Holocaust , but also all those who be persecute by the Nazis , include the Roma , the Sinti people , gay man , disabled people , political opponent and other . we remember , too , all those affect by subsequent genocide in Cambodia , Rwanda , Bosnia , of which I will say more , and Darfur . when it come to remembering , Elie Wiesel , the Holocaust survivor and scholar who have already be quote by my hon . friend the Member for High Peak ( Jon Pearce ) , put it well when he say that " whoever listen to a witness become a witness , so those who hear we , those who read we must continue to bear witness for we . " yesterday in Portcullis House , thank to Mr Speaker , many of we do indeed bear witness as we hear the extremely move testimony of two holocaust survivor , Yisrael Abelesz and Alfred Garwood . we all know many old soldier who , quite understandably , never recount the trauma they suffer in the war , often because they have blank it out and move on . however , many of those who be not soldier but survivor of genocide have show an extraordinary strength and perseverance to keep tell their story , however painful , through a need to keep their memory alive , and they do so again and again . their testimony be so direct and so powerful that when we hear they , we become part of that remembering process . Yisrael Abelesz , now aged 96 , be just 14 when he and his family be deport to Auschwitz - Birkenau , where his parent David and Haya and young brother Aaron , age just 11 year old , be send to the gas chamber on arrival . that sense of the history book become all too chillingly real jump out at we yesterday when Yisrael say he be greet on arrival at the camp by the infamous Angel of Death , Josef Mengele . he say : " Mengele ask I , ' how old be you ? ' I understand a bit of German , and say , ' I ' m 14 , it ' s just my birthday ' . and he reply , ' that ' s very good , very good ' , and send I to the right side . " as Yisrael say : " I didn ' t know it at that time , but what he mean be , ' very good , you can stay temporarily alive ' . " Alfred ' s story , too , should show we all that , while hate be immensely destructive , there be strength in community . he tell we how he be a blonde babe in arm carry by his father — a father who save the life of another inmate in Bergen - Belsen by give they bread across the barbed wire . it be so move to hear he recall that , after the war , his father meet that same fellow camp mate in the east end of London . it be move , too , to hear how Alfred become a doctor and a psychiatrist to help other trauma victim , and how he say that hatred , even hatred of those who commit the genocide , be a corrosive force . that desire to rid ourselves of hatred be echo by Muhammad , one of the pupil at Falinge Park high school in my constituency of Rochdale , who write this in a poem about the Holocaust : " revenge be never sweet … it be a monster willing to prevail " . Falinge Park high school be a multicultural school that have legacy beacon status as one of the school under the umbrella of the University College London Centre for Holocaust Education . two year ago , it host Holocaust survivor Ike Alterman to deliver his testimony . yesterday , those from the school again attend the Greater Manchester Holocaust commemoration , host by Andy Burnham . I be delighted that the Prime Minister have say that it will be a national ambition that every schoolchild should hear the record testimony of a Holocaust survivor , and the Chancellor announce a furth £ 2 million for Holocaust education in the Budget . as the Minister say , the Holocaust Educational Trust ' s innovative free digital education programme Testimony 360 will allow student to have a virtual reality conversation with a Holocaust survivor long after the survivor themselves be no long with we . the prioritisation of Holocaust education in our school have be praise across this House today , and rightly so , but the prevention of Holocaust denial can not be leave just to pass law or to education . it must be a cultural or grassroots change that exist alongside formal education . education do not begin and end in our school . some child will go back from a lesson to a home where parent and old sibling fill their head with misinformation and unchecked source from social medium . sadly , there be now a depressingly familiar routine of a sharp spike in attack on synagogue or on mosque whenever news break about an atrocity — an atrocity that have no personal connection to the people worship inside those building . there be a well of simmer loathing that lurk unseen and be top up by casual racism that formal education alone can not fix . as the hon . member for Brigg and Immingham ( Martin Vickers ) powerfully remind we , 2025 mark the 30th anniversary of the genocide in Bosnia and the massacre at Srebrenica . the tragedy be that the story of what happen in Srebrenica 30 year ago be not be tell in Srebrenica itself . the enclave go into Serbia as part of the peace deal , where deny the massacre be now official policy in and out of school . the issue be raise by Baroness Helic in the other place , who be a fierce advocate for justice on the massacre . a Srebrenica Memorial Centre report last year identify prominent public figure involve in denial of the holocaust , include Republika Srpska President Milorad Dodik , and serbian President Aleksandar Vu č I ć , among other . last year my former newspaper , the i , report election poster in window in Republika Srpska with the slogan " Genocide Didn ' t Happen " . one billboard praise convict war criminal Ratko Mladi ć , the bosnian - serb military chief know as the Butcher of Bosnia . his crime include the massacre of 8 , 000 Bosniak muslim man and boy in Srebrenica in July 1995 . the bloodbath be the bad episode of mass murder in Europe since the second world war . I be proud to say that my wife be among the Channel 4 news team who expose those horrific war crime . genocide do not come out of the blue . they depend on what Professor David Feldman have describe as the reservoir of hate . he point out that the danger in the case of antisemitism be not just the virus of antisemitism that capture the minority of antisemite ; the wide danger be " a widely diffused reservoir of stereotype and narrative about Jews . this reservoir have accumulate over century and have become a part of our common culture . " that apply to Islamophobia , just as it do to antisemitism . when weaponise by extremist , the legitimate and proud celebration of one community ' s identity curdle into the denigration of another ' s . history be use and warp ; territory and belonging be weaponise into separation and segregation . date be cite as battle cry , and the cycle perpetuate . anger be a legitimate emotional response to atrocity , but hatred be not . peace be hard , compromise be painful ; violence , and the prejudice it rely on , be easy . but everyday racism can be counter only by everyday engagement , and disinformation by information . the Holocaust be the industrialisation of murder , but the difference be only one of scale from the many pogrom that jewish community have have to suffer over the century . in Soho this month , the National Holocaust Centre and Museum have devise a new touring exhibition call " the Vicious Circle " . it link five jewish community decimate by violence . object be on display to represent co - existence and integration into the host country before five particular pogrom : Berlin in 1938 , Baghdad in 1941 , Kielce in Poland in 1946 , Aden in Yemen in 1947 , and of course Kibbutz Kissufim on 7 October 2023 . that be history , this be the present . the well , the reservoir , be there and it need to be drain . I end , like many other , with another quote from Elie Wiesel : " much depend on we , on our sense of justice and integrity , on our dedication to truth , on our willingness to share our innermost memory . and we survivor have promise that we shall try . " as the number of survivor dwindle , it be on we . it be our duty in this place to follow their heroic example and honour their memory every day . it be not often in this House that everyone from every party speak with one voice , and it be not often that we stand here and do not have political argument , and that we all listen , nod and agree with all the speaker we be hear . the Minister who introduce the debate do an excellent job lay out some of the cold , hard fact , and make clear exactly why we have Holocaust Memorial Day . the hon . member for Hendon ( David Pinto - Duschinsky ) bring humanity into that with his own family ' s story , and we have hear from member across the House about their personal view , the view of Holocaust survivor and the reading they have do , and about genocide and massacre that have take place not just in the wake of the second world war but more recently . it be important that we remember all that . it be important that we use the privileged position that we have here , and the platform we have in this House . we be incredibly lucky that we can stand here and amplify the voice of our constituent . right now , we have more of a responsibility to do that than ever . we be see the rise of antisemitism . in the wake of what happen on 7 October , we be see that on our street . the Antisemitism Policy Trust have publish two report about the rise of antisemitism online and the inability of AI system on some website to find antisemitic post . I urge the Government to look at those report , particularly when it come to the rise of issue on x . we be see the rise of Islamophobia . I be see constituent who be refugee and asylum seeker face discrimination and prejudice that I have not see in the 20 year I have be support and deal with the public . it be new . it feel like we have tip into a different world . we be see a rise in anti - trans , anti - gay and anti - lesbian hate on our street as well . now be the point when we all have to take action . we all have to recognise that whatever we have be do to try to tackle this — whatever voice we have use and whatever moment we have take — we have not do enough . we be not there yet . we have not manage to tackle this . whether as a group of 650 individual with a platform we be capable of sort it out do not matter ; what matter be that we try every single day to make that difference . the hon . member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) and a number of hon . member have say that a holocaust do not happen overnight . we do not go from have a happy community to mass murder in a couple of day . we go through stage , with a rise in hatred and the dehumanisation and othering of people . we go through a situation — like there be in Germany after the first world war — where the population feel hard do by , their life be not as good as they could be and they want someone to blame . they have politician , the medium and people stand up and say , " there be people you can blame for this . " in that case , the population be be tell , " the Jews be the people to blame . the jewish people be less human than you be , and they be to blame for your life be a struggle and for you find thing difficult right now . " we know that that divisive rhetoric be be use around the world right now . it be be use here . I be sure that all hon . member have see a rise in the number of email to they say , " I can not afford to pay my energy bill , and that be because of the number of illegal in this country . " we all need to stand up against that . it be not just about counter the explicit hate that people come up with and the obvious racism and antisemitism that people send we in email ; it be about counter the people who will say , " yes , but you have to allow we our free speech . you have to allow we the freedom to say thing that dehumanise other . " we must counter that chip away at the hard - win right of minority group . we need to stand there and say not just , " you ' re wrong , " to people behave in a racist way and use racist rhetoric , but , " no . we will not reduce the right that trans people have . we will not reduce the right that gay people have . we will not reduce the right that jewish people , Muslims and people of all faith should have to practise their faith . " we should make a stand for equality and the right that people have as well as against the hatred . reduction in those right be how we get to the far end of the road in Auschwitz . the beginning of the road be reduce right , take up a Sharpie and write that trans people be no long to be recognise , and say that people who riot against democracy be fine , cool and should carry on . many of we be use our platform to say these thing , but we be not win . we need to tackle disinformation and misinformation , online and in person , and the diminution of right that people have fight for . this be an incredibly poignant debate . I be proud of all the mp who have stand up and argue against dehumanisation , and have relate their experience and those of constituent and survivor . we need to do that , and not just on Holocaust Memorial Day . every one of we need to work for a well future every single day . there be so many good people out there who care a huge amount about this . we need to mobilise they and take they with we , ensure that we amplify their voice as they speak in favour of the well future that we all want . may I say how moved I have be by all the speech that I have hear this afternoon ? on Monday I will stand in Abbey Gardens in Bury St Edmunds , at a steel teardrop erect as a memorial not only to the 6 million Jews murder in the Holocaust , but to the 57 Jews slaughter by their neighbour in Bury St Edmunds in March 1190 . I will also the honour the memory of the liberation of Auschwitz precisely 80 year ago . in East Anglia , Bury St Edmunds , Norwich and King ' s Lynn be important centre of medieval jewish life . however , East Anglia also have a sad role in the history of european antisemitism . it be here that the myth of the jewish blood libel first emerge when , in 1144 , the Jews of Norwich be falsely accuse of the ritual murder of a boy name William . that myth persist for century , play its part in the growth of antisemitism in the 20th century , and live on to this very day . the blood libel stoke hatred in Bury St Edmunds , culminate in that vicious massacre in 1190 . in the aftermath , the town expel all the survive Jews . exactly 100 year later , in 1290 , King Edward expel all the Jews from England . I stand here not only as the first Labour MP for Bury St Edmunds , but as its first jewish MP . I be a Jew who represent a town that , almost 1 , 000 year ago , be the first in the country to expel the Jews . history have come full circle . however , sadly , antisemitism be on the rise again in this country . the number of antisemitic hate crime have reach record level — more than double the number in previous year . the Community Security Trust report that damage and desecration of jewish property rise by 246 % on the previous year , which be deeply concern . the CST do crucial work to protect jewish community across the country , enable by the support of his Majesty ' s Government , for which we be all deeply grateful . similarly , Holocaust education , promote through the work of the Holocaust Education Trust and the Holocaust Memorial Day Trust , be of great significance in this country . this generation be privileged to know the last few live witness of the Holocaust . we must make sure that their story do not fade into obscurity , but survive in the collective memory of humanity . I finish with a few line by the medieval poet Meir of Norwich , write as he flee England in 1190 — the early hebrew poetry ever write in this country : " when I hope for good , evil arrive , yet I will wait for the light . you be mighty and full of light , you turn the darkness into light . " Diolch , Dirprwy Lefarydd . it be a privilege to be here , hear word of kindness and join with other against hate on the day when we remember one of our bad time in history . this year mark the 80th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz - Birkenau , and the 30th anniversary of the genocide in Bosnia . as we look back and reflect on those horror , we remember the story of those who fall victim to unspeakable crime , and take lesson from history . the theme of this year ' s Holocaust Memorial Day be " for a well future " ; as we consider what it mean to build a well future , we must all look at what can be do to create a future that be no long blight by prejudice . recent figure show that there be much work to be do to fulfil that promise . eighty year on from the liberation of Auschwitz - Birkenau , religious hate crime in England and Wales be at a record high . Home Office statistic show a 25 % increase in religious hate crime in the year to March 2024 . in October , the monitoring group Tell MAMA UK say it have record 4 , 971 incident of anti - muslim hate between October ' 23 and September ' 24 — the high annual total in the past 14 year — while the Community Security Trust record 1 , 978 report of anti - jewish hate incident from January to June 2024 , up from 964 in the first half of 2023 . the rise in these appalling hate crime be a cause of deep concern , and all those who have be the victim of these crime deserve our friendship and solidarity . among those murder in the Holocaust be Helene Melanie Lebel . bear to a jewish father and a catholic mother in Vienna and know affectionately as helly , she love to swim and go to the opera . after finish her secondary education , she enter law school . at 19 , she begin show sign of a mental health condition and be force to give up her law study and work , and be later diagnose as schizophrenic . a year later , she become one of the thousand of mentally and physically disabled people murder in the Brandenburg killing centre . after the second world war , many ordinary Germans and Europeans claim that they be not involve in the event of the Holocaust — that they be bystander . their indifference teach we that passively remember the Holocaust be not enough . we must continue to learn from and listen to the story of the victim and the survivor — the jewish , the disabled , and the gay man and woman whose life be end because the Nazis decide that they do not deserve to exist . as we look to the future , it be incumbent on all of we parliamentarian to speak out against genocide denial and distortion . we must forcefully speak out against prejudice and hate wherever it be find , whether here in Parliament or in our community . Holocaust Memorial Day be a reminder to all of we that the fight against prejudice and intolerance must never cease . only by continue this fight , in memory of helly and the million who die as she do , can we secure a well future . I commend the Minister for the way he introduce the debate — the tone and pitch of his speech — and the whole Chamber for how it have come together on such an important subject . it be a lesson we must all learn and remember for a well future . last Monday , I have the privilege of listen to Eva Clarke , a survivor . eighty year on , she still break down many time while she relive the horror of lose family and love one . I also have the privilege of listen to Smajo be š o , a survivor from Srebrenica who come to the north - east as a young lad 30 year ago . he tell his story — how , have lose his family , he come to this wonderful country , which give we all hope ; how he go to school and hate it , because he could not understand a word and want to be with his family ; how he be live a life of terror and horror , have lose everyone ; how he be in a strange place ; how he be put in a different room from the other to learn English , but be make to feel welcome ; how , while he be learn English , his classmate be learn his language , to make he feel at home . that be the wonderful country we live in . we will support all community when they be in need . eighty year ago , Europe experience one of the great tragedy in human history : the systematic murder of 6 million jewish man , woman and child . as the year progress , we be lose survivor , and the horror of the Holocaust be pass out of live memory . it be incumbent on each one of we to ensure that their story be not lose , and that the barbaric treatment so many endure be never forget . Redbridge be the place I call home . it be where I have live for half a century . historically , it be home to a thriving jewish community . family find a safe and welcome home in Ilford . our area be immeasurably enrich by our jewish neighbour . the beauty of Ilford be not just our diversity , but the respect and love that those in our diverse community show one another ; we celebrate one another ' s holiday and share each other ' s great sorrow . next Monday , I will be in Valentines Park to commemorate Holocaust Memorial Day , as I have be for the last 16 year . all our community come together — people of all faith and none — to remember the Holocaust and honour all those so cruelly take , and the life irrevocably lose or change forever . Nazi ideology preach hatred and division . by repudiate antisemitism and stand against hate , we make it clear every single day how much the Nazis ' hateful ideology fail , and always will . the crime of the Holocaust cast a shadow across the world . family be destroy and community shatter . we still live with the consequence today . whole family be erase , lineage wipe out , and generational trauma pass on . preserve the memory of the Holocaust be our sacred duty to all those who lose their life , and whose future be steal . memory do not only work backwards ; it have the power to shape our present and our future . the word we say about the Holocaust in this place must translate into action . every day , we must continue to work together to fight antisemitism , xenophobia and hate speech across our wonderful country . while we take the time today to reflect on the horror of the Holocaust , we must also reflect on the people we want to be , and the society we want to live in . we each have the power to speak up and challenge racism , antisemitism and hate speech , and every time we do , the world get a little well . we must ensure that atrocity like the Holocaust never happen again , but we must also work to protect and advocate for those who be still suffer from the xenophobia , racism and violence that lead to the Holocaust not so long ago . on Holocaust Memorial Day , it be incumbent on we to learn the lesson from the past , to create a safe and well future for all . I be grateful for the opportunity to contribute to this incredibly important debate . when I be a little girl , I spend quite a lot of time in hospital , and during one stay I become friend with Paula , the girl in the next bed . Paula and her family have be in a terrible car crash , and her mum have her arm in a sling . one day she be rub her arm , and I notice that on her skin there be several small black number . " what be those ? " I ask . she explain that as a child she have be in a place call Auschwitz , and the number be there so that her mum and dad could find she if they ever become separate . it be a few year later , when I be learn about the Holocaust at school , that I finally understand what those number be and what they mean . Monday will be the 80th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz - Birkenau , and it be incredibly humble to hear the testimony of Holocaust survivor Yisrael Abelesz , now 94 year old , at the Holocaust Memorial Day ceremony yesterday . hear the account of survivor , include Alfred Garwood , who be a baby in Bergen - Belsen , be crucial to ensure that we learn the lesson of history . I would like to thank the Holocaust Memorial Day Trust for everything it do to educate , to speak out against Holocaust denial and distortion , and to challenge prejudice . we should all take inspiration from the survivor of the Holocaust who have bravely share their story in the hope that genocide and violation inflict on defenceless people across the world will never happen again . I also pay tribute to those who liberate the camp and all those from Eastleigh who have serve , include in the Balkans . I be at school with several child from the former Yugoslavia , and I often wonder what become of they . this year we also mark the 30th anniversary of the bosnian genocide , include the Srebrenica massacre , where 8 , 372 Muslims be kill . it be difficult to understand what drive a human being to murder another , but for all the victim and survivor of genocide , it be vital that we continue to learn about man ' s inhumanity to man and where hatred and othering can lead . as we reflect on these atrocity , I be deeply proud of my constituency ' s long - stand history of provide refuge to those escape persecution and conflict . during the spanish civil war , nearly 4 , 000 basque child be shelter in North Stoneham . in the aftermath of the second world war , resettlement camp be build in Velmore and Hiltingbury to house polish family , and in 2021 Eastleigh become one of the first authority in England to house afghan refugee flee the Taliban . these act of compassion and solidarity remind we that , even in the darkest of time , humanity can prevail . on Holocaust Memorial Day we honour the memory of those who be murder in the Holocaust , and in subsequent genocide in Cambodia , Rwanda , Bosnia and Darfur . we have a responsibility to learn from the past , to speak out and never to forget . today we pay tribute to all those who die and all those who survive . on Monday it will be 80 year since the liberation of Auschwitz - Birkenau . I find this debate quite difficult , so please bear with I . I go with my own family , my father and my two son , to Auschwitz - Birkenau in the summer of 2023 . I know that many member here have be to Auschwitz - Birkenau , and although it be a difficult place to visit , those who have not definitely should . I thank the Prime Minister for his recent visit to Auschwitz - Birkenau . when you be there , you can imagine the industrial scale of murder that happen there . you see many skull , shoe and clothe . you see the cabin where people have to live . you go through the killing station where the Nazis murder million of people : Jews , the LGBT community , the Gypsy Roma community , trade unionist and other they decide have to be remove in their genocide — in our Holocaust . that really commit you to want to see the future education of generation on this subject . I have also be to the POLIN museum in Warsaw , which document the history of Jews in Poland . it have a significant section on antisemitism in that country , which I will come to later in my speech . when you visit such place , you can well understand the rise of antisemitism and how thing could get to that point . this year the theme of Holocaust Memorial Day be " for a well future " , which be uplifting . my own grandparent return to Poland and Lithuania after the Holocaust . follow the Yalta agreement , they be very different country from what they be before the war . my grandparent hope to rebuild their life , as do the few member of my family who survive the camp and ghetto , but it be still very difficult after the war . when I visit Warsaw with my father , he take I to the tower block where he grow up and tell I story of how , as a child , he receive antisemitic abuse and bullying from polish child after the war — this be after everybody know about the Holocaust and the camp . unfortunately , that be the reality for jewish people . the state authority have antisemitic attitude too , which in the end result in the mass emigration of 13 , 000 Jews — almost the entire remain jewish population of Poland — in 1968 . that be just 23 year after the war , which be very much in recent memory for those people . all of this make attempt to rebuild life in eastern Europe very difficult , not just in Poland but in other country . my own parent emigrate from eastern Europe in the ' 50 and ' 60 , and in the end arrive in Leeds in the 1970 . similarly , thousand of Jews come out of communist and post - communist country , find home and contribute economically , socially and culturally to their new country . I want to tell a story about two of my former constituent — they be no long with we — who be very close family friend . when I be grow up , I spend a lot of my time in their house , and they certainly contribute a lot to my own holocaust education . Yanina Bauman be a Holocaust survivor , have escape the Warsaw ghetto with her sister and mother . like other Jews , they be hide by amazing polish family in the countryside . Yanina and her husband , Professor Zygmunt Bauman , come to Leeds in the 1970 , and he work as a professor of sociology . he be one of the most decorate sociology professor in the world , and his book be world class and outstanding . his literature discuss the theoretical effect of the " holocaust mentality " , and he come up with the theory of " liquid life " as part of post - modernity . I do not want to get into a sociology lecture , because the Chamber be not the place for that , but people who be interested in those subject should certainly look up his work . Yanina , who survive the ghetto , write two book about her own life and history ; one be about her life in Poland before the war , and one be about her experience during and immediately after the war . those book be recognise as part of a very important canon of literature on the Holocaust . I be really proud that Yanina and Zygmunt both live . I thank my hon . friend for his powerful speech , which show just how important it be that live memory be pass on and why we should continue to have this debate in Parliament . take your time , Mr Sobel . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . Professor Zygmunt Bauman die in January 2017 . he be a great supporter of mine and always have placard outside his house when I stand for election , but unfortunately he never get to see I elect to this place . I want to record my thank to the Baumans . this debate be about a well future for people from conflict and post - conflict zone , and for those who have suffer genocide . all the subsequent genocide recognise by the United Kingdom happen in my lifetime , include Cambodia , Rwanda and the regime of Slobodan Milo š evic and the Serbs . since I become a Member of Parliament , we have have the atrocious murder of the Yazidis by Daesh and , look at Syria now , I be afraid that genocide be probably not yet conclude . we need to act on that today so that they can have a well future for tomorrow . I have meet victim of Slobodan Milo š evic ' s regime in the Balkans — people exactly the same age as I , with similar background and experience , who witness and experience the most awful and traumatic event . I have see some of the exhibit from the Milo š evic regime ' s genocidal action , and many of they remind I of what I see in Auschwitz - Birkenau , include single shoe and item of clothing belong to child who be disappear and whose fate be unknown — they never find the body . obviously , the genocide in the Balkans be different from the Holocaust , but we recognise it as genocide nevertheless . after the conflict , people in those country be still suffer , and they still do not have stable country . Bosnia be still experience tension . the Minister for Housing and Planning , who be no long in his place , make an excellent contribution on issue in the Balkans , and I hope we can have a further debate with the Minister for Europe , my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , on the contemporary situation in the Balkans , and particularly Republika Srpska . I be plan to visit the Balkans again this year , and we all have that duty because the Balkans be very near , and those event happen in the political lifetime of some of those in charge of Serbia — some of they , include the President of Serbia , be involve in the regime of Slobodan Milo š evic . the event be still very close . for the well future of people in the Balkans , these issue be not yet resolve . we need to work on they in this place , not in an historical or educational way but in a very real and political way . it be our duty as a country to support a well future for everyone who have suffer in conflict and post - conflict zone . it be an honour to speak in this debate . I pay tribute to all hon . and right hon . member who have contribute today , with powerful , move and , in many instance , personal account . in the UK on Holocaust Memorial Day we remember the 6 million Jews murder during the Holocaust , alongside the million of people murder under the Nazis ' persecution of other group . we also remember the more recent genocide in Cambodia , Rwanda , Bosnia and Darfur , as well as other who have suffer atrocity since world war two . yesterday , I have the privilege of attend the Holocaust Memorial Day ceremony in Portcullis House and I hear the move testimony of Holocaust survivor Yisrael Abelesz and Alfred Garwood . I will not be the only person in this House who be deeply move by their testimony and , among those who listen to Radio 4 early in the week , by the interview of 92 - year - old Holocaust survivor Ivor Perl , who be just 12 year old when force into a cattle truck to Auschwitz , where he lose most of his family . what strike I about Ivor be how , despite everything he have see and endure , he retain his capacity for love and his belief in the power of love . however , I be also strike by his sense of pessimism about the future and his feeling that the world today increasingly resemble the world of the 1930 . I be sad to say that I share that concern . we have see a growth across Europe of a politics that unashamedly demonise minority community and present they as alien in our midst , to such a degree that people become inured to their plight or ill treatment . the Holocaust show we where that toxic combination can lead . the Nazis ' attempt to rid Europe from what they see as an alien presence in their midst do not happen overnight . they first have to dehumanise the Jews , depict they as an alien culture , subject they to antisemitic conspiracy theory that they be part of a global conspiracy to manipulate global event , and strip they of their citizenship right . in his recent film " Occupied City " , the director Steve McQueen show how that unfold in one city , Amsterdam , where the bulk of the dutch jewish population live . his film chronicle the measure the Nazis take . they sack all Jews from public sector job , ban they from all public place , close down all jewish school , force Jews to wear a special badge to demarcate they from everybody else , prevent they from marry non - Jews , subject they to daily humiliation and physical abuse and ultimately round up every Jew they could find and deport they to death camp . the film chronicle the most tremendous heroism of ordinary dutch people to resist those measure and show solidarity with their jewish neighbour . however , it also show that antisemitism have take seed in dutch society , where year of antisemitic propaganda have rot the foundation of that society and many ordinary people collaborate in the persecution of the Jews and betray their neighbour . a jewish community that number around 80 , 000 at the start of the Nazi occupation be reduce to 16 , 000 by the end of it . that picture be repeat in city after city across Europe . but those word do nothing to capture the sheer terror and horror of what the experience must have be like for the many million of people unfortunate enough to have experience it . the generational trauma that it have leave in its wake resonate with every jewish family to this day . the Holocaust embody the reality of fascism in power . unfortunately , the idea at the core of fascist ideology — racist narrative , wrap up in ethno - nationalist fantasy — be on the rise . in Germany at present , we see the far - right Alternative f ü r Deutschland , a party with neo - Nazis in its rank , on track to be comfortably the second large party in the German Parliament . in Austria , the far - right Freedom party recently win a third of the popular vote with an election pledge to remigrate citizen with migrant heritage . a similar dynamic be well under way in France , Italy and other country where the far right have significant electoral foothold . these be not fascist party of the classic type , but they be walk on that ground . when member — I be sorry to say — of this House demonise and talk about deport immigrant , and the President of the United States commit to deport million of immigrant family , with the rich man in the world cheer he on while give fascist salute , it should send shiver down everyone ' s spine . there be more than a whiff of the 1930 in the air . Holocaust Memorial Day also pay tribute to the genocide in Cambodia , Rwanda , Darfur and Bosnia . we have already hear from the hon . member for Brigg and Immingham ( Martin Vickers ) and other about the genocide in Bosnia that result in the death of 100 , 000 man , woman and child , with 8 , 000 murder in the Srebrenica massacre . I wish to mention the other genocide that be commemorate on Holocaust Memorial Day . in the genocide in Cambodia in the 1970 , the Khmer Rouge seek to create a communist utopia , force urban population into rural camp . intellectual , professional , religious leader and ethnic minority be target . approximately 1 . 7 million to 2 million people — about 25 % of Cambodia ' s population — be kill through execution , starvation and force labour . in Rwanda in the ' 90 , over the span of 100 day , an estimate 800 , 000 to 1 million tutsi and moderate Hutus be massacre . the genocide be fuel by deep ethnic tension , propaganda and political instability . in Darfur , where the atrocity continue , government - back militia have carry out mass killing , rape and displacement in response to an uprising by rebel group . the conflict be characterise by ethnic cleansing , with hundred of thousand of people kill and million displace . unfortunately , violence and instability continue in the region . there be more recent example , such as Myanmar . as we remember on this 80th anniversary all those affect by the Holocaust , the Bosniaks kill in Srebrenica 30 year ago and the victim of the genocide that I have just mention , we should also remember all those who , in their day - to - day life , have suffer atrocity in approximately 285 distinct armed conflict since the end of the second world war . let recommit to never allow the politic of hatred , racism and demonisation , which contribute to the awful reality of fascism , to take hold in our society ever again . in his interview , Ivor Perl say that " the world have not learn anything , it get repeat all over again " . he be right . we have hear from member across the House that we have fail to fulfil the promise of " never again " in these 80 year — never again for every single human being who walk this planet . however , there be nothing stop we from fulfil it from now for all people of all nation , all ability , all faith and none , and set an example for the people of our country and the wide world to follow . may I start by say what a privilege it be to follow the incredible speech that we have hear across the House today ? it have be especially powerful hear the testimony of people descend from the family of Holocaust survivor . I wish to pay tribute to several member before I begin the substance of my speech today . my hon . friend the Member for Hendon ( David Pinto - Duschinsky ) have be refer to countless time , and rightly so . his family history be a powerful reminder . I be certain that his family will be proud of he , because he have come to this place and share his story from the Government Benches . I be incredibly grateful for that . in exactly the same vein , my hon . friend the Member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) give a powerful account . he and I have know each other for many year , before either of we make it to this House — he get here in 2017 , so he be a veteran by most standard ; I have be here for six month — but I have never hear he speak in that way about his family history . it be a privilege to be here as he do so , and I thank he for it . we have hear other great speech too . I give special thank to the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) , who set out in great detail the opportunity that be miss to potentially prevent the Holocaust , or at least mitigate some of its impact . despite study history , I have often wonder what could have be do to prevent this catastrophe from take place . I really appreciate his insight into what the ally could have do soon to prevent it from happen . my hon . friend the Member for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) make an excellent short contribution . I be so proud that he be the first Labour MP to represent that constituency in this House . he have make many good contribution — I find listen to he in today ' s debate particularly powerful , as I have in other debate . the hon . member for Eastleigh ( Liz Jarvis ) talk about the ceremony that we attend yesterday in Portcullis House . it be especially powerful to hear from Yisrael and Alfred , two holocaust survivor , because , as the hon . member and many other have state , the window to speak to survivor and hear their first - hand testimony be shrink . I be especially grateful to Mr Speaker and his office for arrange that event . my hon . friend the Member for High Peak ( Jon Pearce ) set out exactly why we need to be vigilant to the terror and the spectre of antisemitism that haunt Britain ' s street today . he speak far more powerfully and sum up the issue much more succinctly than I could , but we know that jewish people be less safe on Britain ' s street today than they be before 7 October . that can not be right , and I thank he for highlight it . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Rochdale ( Paul Waugh ) , whose speech be incredibly powerful . I always enjoy listen to his testimony , especially since he be a former newspaper columnist . that certainly come through in his contribution . Monday 27 January will mark a sombre day of reflection and remembrance . eighty year after the liberation of Auschwitz - Birkenau , this year ' s Holocaust Memorial Day be an important anniversary that we must all observe . in November , I have the privilege of join the European Jewish Association ' s delegation to Auschwitz and Krakow . in Krakow , we talk about the spectre of antisemitism and what need to be do to prevent it , and to prevent such a tragedy from ever happen again . I talk about my experience as a math teacher in a secondary school before I make it to this place , and the role that I think Holocaust education have to play in prevent such tragedy in the future . the most important part of the visit , however , be our visit to Auschwitz - Birkenau . we lay wreath and pay tribute to the million of victim of the Holocaust . to stand in that place , where human being commit the most evil act imaginable , be a harrowing experience . I can not share all the detail today , but something strike I while I be there . I be stand in the field just past the gate of Auschwitz - Birkenau , and I be stun by the scale and size of the camp . I never imagine it be as large as it be — murder on an industrial scale . Most of the accommodation — I use that word know it do no justice to the terrible condition that people be keep in — that be build for the camp ' s inhabitant be make of wood , so it have long since perish . however , the chimney of the accommodation be build from brick , and they still stand . I be take aback by an enormous field of chimney stretch as far as I could see — the bad of humanity on display for all . but it be so important that the camp stand as a lesson and stand in history forever so that all of we can learn about the horror of the Holocaust . it will stay with I forever . while liberation bring an end to the horror of Nazi extermination and torture , it come too late for 6 million jewish people and all the other victim of the Holocaust . we owe it to all of they to ensure that " never again " mean never again . some of the people who survive Auschwitz and the Holocaust have share their story with we , and I refer to some of they early . powerful lesson can always be learn from those testimony . I would like to pay tribute to one of those survivor today . Iby Knill be a Leeds resident for most of her life follow world war two . however , in her youth , Iby flee to Hungary to escape Nazi - occupy Czechoslovakia , but sadly she be still capture and deport to Auschwitz - Birkenau . with your permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to read a little of Iby ' s testimony . please understand that any reference to " you " be just take from her testimony . this be what she write about arrive at Auschwitz - Birkenau : " when we arrive , man in stripe pyjama open the door and tell we to leave the sick , the old and the child . man and woman be separate . I and four other woman — two of they doctor — link arm and move past " the doctor . " we have arrive in Auschwitz - Birkenau . we be tell to strip , have the hair shave off all over our body and be then push into shower . normal practise include , at this stage , the registration and tattooing of each person ' identity number on their left arm , but there be so many of we that the ink run out and I be not tattooed . we be give some clothe and take into the camp . two hundred and fifty woman go into each hut . " the people " ( in charge of my hut ) be Czech ; I could speak to they and get a slightly large ration of watery soup and also a slightly large piece of blanket . there be so little room we have to sleep squash up like spoon . every morning , midday and evening … everyone be count , this could take three or four hour . you have to strip and hold your clothe above your head . if you sway or stumble you be take away and never see again . we be take to be shower once a week . if anyone be take ill they be take to the hospital hut and usually then to the gas chamber . bad than hunger be the thirst . it be summer and there be no water at all … on 26th July " the doctor " ask for volunteer . I , with the two doctor and the two nurse who have come together to Auschwitz have realize that if we stay there we would eventually die . we therefore volunteer and go with a slave labour transport of five hundred and thirty hungarian woman to " Germany . " we spend overnight in another hutment , where a twin I know from Szekesfehervar ask I to tell the world what I have see because twin be be experiment on by a doctor " and they do not believe that they would survive . we leave on 27th July . " Iby ' s testimony be incredibly powerful . she know that if she stay in that camp she would die , so she take the opportunity to go to Germany — an opportunity that few have — until she be liberate while on a death march on Easter Sunday 1945 . she marry , come to England and live in Leeds . she be later support by the Holocaust Survivors ' Friendship Association base in Leeds . the association now run the Holocaust Centre North , a museum in Huddersfield devote to tell a global history of the Holocaust through the local story of survivor and refugee like Iby . Iby spend the remainder of her later life tell the story that I have just share with the House . she want to educate future generation about the horror of the Holocaust . I pay tribute to she and all the survivor . they have give their account so that we can learn the lesson and ensure that it never happen again . member have speak about the theme of this Holocaust Memorial Day , which be about take action for a well future . give the rise of antisemitism in the UK and across Europe , we must prioritise action to stop that evil . my hon . friend the Member for High Peak set that out in clear term . I welcome the Government ' s allocation of £ 54 million for the Community Security Trust to continue its vital work to protect the jewish community . I also welcome the fact that the Prime Minister take the opportunity at Prime Minister ' s question a few week ago to reiterate his commitment to that funding . education be key . as a former teacher , I know the power that education have to inspire understanding . the Holocaust must never become a footnote in history , especially as we approach the era that I speak about , when we will no long be able to hear survivor provide their testimony in person . I put on record my gratitude to the Holocaust Educational Trust , which do an incredible amount to educate teacher and provide high - quality material to school . I be also pleased that the Government have maintain the cross - party consensus on properly support and fund holocaust education . we have pledge an additional £ 2 million to support the crucial work of the Holocaust Educational Trust . we be also commit to build a new Holocaust memorial and learn centre . I welcome the fact that Holocaust education will remain mandatory in the national curriculum . on that point , let I speak about the trial go ahead to see how we can far expand Holocaust education in school . we need to ensure not just that it be embed in the curriculum , but that it stay with our young people beyond school . while I be in Poland for my visit , I speak with a journalist — a young man from Gildersome in my constituency — who be ask I about the post office that be under threat . I tell he where I be , and he say , " oh yes , the Holocaust . we have a few lesson on that in school , but not much more . " that strike I , because if he be say that — someone who be switch on , interested in politic and become a journalist — there be bind to be other student who be leave behind . that be why it be so important that the trial go on at the moment be use , and , if successful , roll out to the wide national curriculum . we all must continue to learn the lesson from humanity ' s darkest time . before I conclude my remark , I pay tribute to the jewish community in Leeds for the event that they always organise across Leeds for Holocaust Memorial Day . this Sunday will see the civic remembrance event at City Varieties , which I have attend before . it will remember those murder in the Holocaust , as well as in subsequent genocide in Cambodia , Rwanda , Bosnia and Darfur . I be very pleased to hear those genocide mention by member across different party . there will be reading and candle light by representative of all those who be persecute , include Holocaust survivor . we will come together as a city to remember those we lose , as we do every year and always will . all of we in this House have a duty to use our voice to uphold the memory of the Holocaust , its victim and its survivor . we owe it to everyone who die . we will never forget they . the word " never again " will stand for all time . I know that everyone in this House will work towards that end . I call the shadow Minister . it be a privilege and an honour as a shadow Minister , but also as the co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on British Jews , to close today ' s debate on Holocaust Memorial Day . I share the very complimentary observation of many member about the Minister ' s open speech . he be very clear in restate the importance not only of recall in particular the Holocaust that take place in the second world war , target at 6 million Jews and people from all kind of minority background , but of ensure — this have be reflect in the many contribution from member across the Chamber — that when we debate these issue , we think about the lesson we can learn from what happen then , from early tragedy and from event since , in order to ensure that as far as possible , we be do what we can to make sure those kind of event be never repeat . there have be many move and impactful speech . the hon . member for Hendon ( David Pinto - Duschinsky ) , for Leicester South ( Shockat Adam ) and for Dewsbury and Batley ( Iqbal Mohamed ) and my hon . friend the Members for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) and for Brigg and Immingham ( Martin Vickers ) all make contribution — as do every speaker — that I will try to reflect in my closing speech , in particular where the point they make relate to lesson that we need to learn for the future . it be incredibly important to hear the testimony of survivor , and I join colleague in pay tribute to people such as my constituent , Paul Sved . he be one of those Holocaust survivor who travel the country with the Holocaust Memorial Day Trust , speak about what he experience as a child and the impact it have on he , his family and his wide community . these be all reminder of the human story that make the level of inhumanity that be show in the Holocaust even hard to comprehend . it be also an opportunity to reflect that even in the midst of all that darkness , there be example of humanity — of people in difficult situation take step to preserve the life of their neighbour , and sometimes of stranger in their community . I have the opportunity to visit the Wannsee villa , a beautiful lakeside house on the outskirt of Berlin — a place like my constituency . that house be the command centre for the Holocaust ; it be where the committee of Nazi politician , police and military meet to manage the logistic . today , it be a museum , display the record that be keep of all the meeting that take place . the thing that I find very striking about it as a visit politician be the banality of that evidence and those record . it be like read the minute of the plan committee that I see in a local authority . they list who attend and what they discuss , but instead of record the detail of people ' s extension and change to the design of their home and their neighbour ' view , they record in detail the planning and execution of a government - level strategy of mass murder . that emphasise the importance of learn from history . when we see the statue at Friedrichstra ß e station — the memorial to the Kindertransport — we can recall that at the end of world war two , when the russian force arrive in Berlin , they find 1 , 700 jewish people live in that city who have be shelter by a combination of city authority and neighbour . even in those dark place , there be those who be willing to help . it be important to remember that antisemitism have much old root . I be very strike by the contribution of the hon . member for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) , who talk about the blood libel . in a world that often seem very polarised , it always seem to I a great irony that even far back than that , the islamic caliphate that rule Spain — with which much of Christian Europe be at war for century — be the one place of safety in Europe for jewish people for a very long time . antisemitism be something that have deep root , and it be incumbent on we to be aware of those root if we be to deal with it effectively . member have speak about the need to spot example of similar human behaviour in more recent year . Srebrenica be describe ; many member speak movingly of their experience of it , and insight from it . as the display at Mr Speaker ' s event yesterday set out , what happen in Rwanda be one of the most hideous genocide of the modern era . many of we will recall see that tragedy unfold on the tv news , or hear about it on the radio . that tie in with the theme of today ' s debate . Rwanda be now a modern , democratic nation work with country across Europe and the United Nations — for example , to resettle refugee . it be a good example of the fact that when terrible thing happen , people may not always progress quickly to a perfect situation , but they can learn , identify lesson , and seek to make amend . as well as an opportunity to recall what happen , this debate be an opportunity for we to reflect on what the nation and Parliament need to do in policy term . it be important to acknowledge , for example , our nation ' s commitment , through our government , to the european convention on human right . it express fundamental and ancient british value to do with the rule of law and due process , and apply to 46 nation , many of which choose to enshrine those value because they want to learn from the event that lead up to the Holocaust , and to ensure that it never happen again . there be always scope for debate on whether treaty and convention be fit for the modern age , but our nation must continue to work alongside the UN , and to value international law and agreement — from those of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees to those of the International Maritime Organisation — that enshrine the rule on how we treat people , such as refugee in small boat who find themselves in distress at sea . they have a bearing on how we work with other country , as a lead nation and a lead voice in the international community , to encourage other to share our value of liberty and democracy . when we recall , as my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East , my constituency neighbour , do in such historical detail , the event lead up to world war two , it put into context our debate in the Chamber about defence spending . we can debate the figure , but there be clearly a broad commitment to move towards spending 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence . as my hon . friend set out , however , we have commitment to other across Europe in 1939 that we simply could not meet in practice . our country be able to defend itself , as the battle of Britain show , but we should all ask ourselves — my hon . friend pose this challenge — what would have be different if we have learn lesson and act soon . would we have be able , in small or great measure , to prevent the tragedy that unfold and take so many innocent life ? the United Kingdom be not a global policeman any more — the year of the victorian pax Britannica be clearly long go — but there remain scope for free nation to work together , and many of they have an honourable history in this respect . the Minister and I have talk a lot about Grenfell Tower , give our portfolio . Grenfell be send to deal with the consequence of atrocity in the Sudan that cause serious concern across the world in the victorian era . british troop , british force and british diplomacy be frequently deploy , as in Benin , because of concern about the large - scale loss of life and atrocity that be destabilising community . look around our modern world , we see the Russianisation of deported ukrainian child , who be take from their family to another country to be change into citizen of a different place with a different outlook . we look at what have happen to the Uyghur people and the Rohingya , and we look at the unfold tragedy in Gaza and Israel . we may not be able to intervene directly and put a stop to those thing , but the combine force of the international community can be extremely powerful . we may not always be able to intervene early enough to prevent the bad of a tragedy , but we still have the scope to make a difference . many of we will be conscious of the impact of these issue on our constituent ; I have hear Rabbi Aaron Goldstein at the Ark synagogue in my constituency speak about that movingly . indeed , my hon . friend the Member for South West Hertfordshire ( Mr Mohindra ) join I in a visit . it be twin with synagogue in Ukraine , and hold service together with people whose home be be bomb and whose synagogue be under attack . the Holocaust that we be talk about be an historical event , but its consequence and the attitude behind it be very much alive , not just in Europe , but elsewhere in the world . I add the opposition ' s thank to organisation that do incredibly important work on this issue , particularly in this era of heighten tension and heighten fear of antisemitism . I applaud the fact that the Government have , through cross - party work , carry on provide the necessary finance to the Community Security Trust , which have a visible presence around synagogue in my constituency . it provide reassurance to our jewish citizen , and their friend and neighbour , so that they can freely practise their faith and associate with member of their community without fear . notwithstanding some of the debate around marche in central London , I welcome the fact that in most of our community , relationship remain good . in particular , relationship that be build up during the covid era , when people of all faith come together with church and community organisation , have stand we in good stead , and people have not allow themselves to be divide . I thank the Metropolitan police , and police force across the country , who have respond to issue robustly , but with sensitivity . since 2016 , there have be not only long - stand , cross - party support for funding for the CST , which provide security assistance for synagogue and our jewish community , but fund to ensure that our muslim community enjoy additional security and protection . all those who have testify about their experience of come here from Holocaust - blight Europe for a new start have describe the importance of be in a place where freedom apply to everybody , and be not the preserve of a few . it be enormously important that the work of the Holocaust Memorial Day Trust , and the educational programme that sit alongside it , continue , so that our child and future generation have the opportunity we have have to hear the testimony of those who have be through those dark period , and the opportunity , which many member describe so movingly , to learn from history and ensure that we do not repeat its bad mistake . it be an honour to speak in this Holocaust Memorial Day debate , and I be grateful to hon . member from all part of the House for their powerful and move contribution to this important debate . I be grateful to the hon . member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) , who respond to the debate , and to my ministerial colleague , the Minister for Housing and Planning , for open it . this year , Holocaust Memorial Day mark the 80th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz - Birkenau . it be an especially poignant occasion , because as member have highlight , it be the last major anniversary when we can expect to have significant number of Holocaust survivor able to share their testimony . we have hear from many hon . member of the impact that listen to first - hand witness have have on they . indeed , I think of my experience and the impact it have have on I . we have listen to personal reflection on the last influence of visit to Auschwitz - Birkenau and other camp across Europe . some hon . member have speak bravely about their family member ' experience of the Holocaust , and the trauma and suffering experience by their family . this debate be about remember the 6 million jewish man , woman and child murder during the Holocaust : the most horrific of war crime ever commit . remember the Holocaust be a human right imperative . the Holocaust stand out as one of the define moment of history that have shape the conscience of humanity . the debate have highlight that the past few year have not be easy for british Jews , with antisemitism on the rise across Europe and the UK . it have also show that contemporary antisemitism revolve around the Holocaust , with some blame the Holocaust on Jews , or suggest that Jews focus on that tragedy to gain advantage . as well as Holocaust denial , we see the grow use of Holocaust distortion , as have be point out by hon . member , and intentional effort to excuse or minimise the impact of the Holocaust . today , Holocaust denial and distortion move instantaneously across social medium , and be amplify by algorithm that drive anger , hate and division . as we mark the 80th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz - Birkenau , it be right to be remind of what unchecked behaviour and violent bigotry can lead to . we all have a duty and a role to play in root out antisemitism where we see it , and the jewish community can be assure that the Government will stand shoulder to shoulder with they . the message be clear : we can not remember the victim of the Holocaust without fight antisemitism and hate today . that be why we remain determined to create the UK national memorial and learn centre in Victoria Tower Gardens . the propose Holocaust memorial and learn centre ' s exhibition will address the impact of antisemitism . I echo the many tribute pay today to Karen Pollock , the chief executive of the Holocaust Education Trust , who , along with her team , do inspirational work for our country . I also pay tribute to the Holocaust Memorial Day Trust and its chief executive officer Olivia Marks - Woldman . I pay tribute , too , to other Holocaust remembrance , education and survivor organisation that enrich the work that we do , include jewish Care ' s Holocaust survivor ' centre in Golders Green ; the Wiener Holocaust library ; the Association of jewish Refugees ; the National Holocaust Centre and Museum in Newark , Nottinghamshire ; Holocaust Centre North at Huddersfield University ; and University College London ' s centre for Holocaust education . as have be point out , we be all aware that the number of Holocaust survivor be dwindle . we will rely on their child and grandchild to share their testimony . that be why I pay a special tribute to organisation such as Generation 2 Generation , the Holocaust education charity establish to empower second and third - generation Holocaust survivor descendant to present their family history to a wide variety of audience . through the use of survivor testimony , g2 g aim to keep Holocaust story alive , so that we never forget . let I speak to the powerful , inspirational and move speech make by hon . member — I will call they my hon . friend — across the House . I begin with my hon . friend the Member for Hendon ( David Pinto - Duschinsky ) . a number of hon . member refer to the powerful story of his father as a Holocaust survivor , and the struggle and heroism of Maria . across the House we be all proud to see my hon . friend speak and represent his constituency in this Parliament . we must make sure that child and the next generation continue to learn from story such as his family ' s , to fight intolerance and hatred anywhere across our country and the world . he work passionately , alongside other colleague , to campaign against intolerance and hate in our country and elsewhere . I also pay special tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) for his incredibly powerful speech . over the year I have hear he speak in this debate and in other about his family ' s history and their struggle . it be so important that we hear these testimony , because of the connection that it create . the trauma that generation face after a genocide never diminish . it be right that as fellow citizen and friend we support each other , whatever our faith and background , and act in solidarity . I thank the Opposition spokesperson , the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , for his opening speech . he speak powerfully , as do other member , about the genocide that , sadly , have take place since the Holocaust , in Cambodia , Bosnia , Rwanda and Darfur . there be many other example of human right violation in our country , which the hon . Gentleman refer to . in opposition , I campaign for many year against the persecution of Rohingya Muslims . I be incredibly grateful to the british jewish community , and many other of different faith and of no faith , for work with I on that campaign to secure the referral of the Myanmar military to the International Court of Justice , precisely on the matter of genocide . I be grateful for the support of prominent lawyer such as my great friend Philippe Sands , who write the book " East West Street " , which document his own family ' s story and the story of Lemkin and Lauterpacht , the architect of the modern - day international legal framework as we know it . it also document the enormous contribution of the jewish community in the post - war period , which continue to influence our international legal system , particularly on human right and genocide . I pay tribute to my hon . friend ' s own personal fortitude in stand up to hate , particularly at the last general election when she , along with many other labour candidate , suffer abuse on the doorstep . there be a lot of talk today about combat hate , but many candidate turn a blind eye to their own supporter who use the phrase " genocide enabler " and " child murderer " in the last election , which be utterly disgusting . will she join I in condemn that ? it be important that we all ensure that we be peacemaker at home . if we want to see peace and security both here at home and elsewhere in the world , we have to work together in solidarity and be fellow citizen . we have to practice what we preach . it be important that we keep our democracy safe , and that those of all background who stand for public office locally and nationally can stand for our democratic system , free from hatred , intolerance , bigotry and hostility , whichever party they belong to . that be how we will protect our democracy . I also draw the House ' s attention to the speech make by the hon . member for Mid Dorset and North Poole ( Vikki Slade ) , who reflect powerfully on her experience of join delegation to Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories . along with other hon . member , she talk about the work of those delegation and their visit to Yad Vashem . I , too , have have the opportunity to make visit over the year on delegation to Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories with member across the House . I draw attention to a Member in the Lords with whom I have the opportunity to visit the occupy Palestinian Territories , who be a child of the Kindertransport and who go on to become a Labour Member of Parliament and then a Member of the House of Lords : Lord Dubs . it be because of the heroism of british hero Nicholas Winton that Lord Dubs be able to survive the Holocaust . we have the opportunity to visit the occupy Palestinian Territories together . as we all know , he continue to campaign for child refugee , and have campaign with many of we over the year for peace in the middle east . there be many other in our country who benefit from the heroism of those who act to get child out during that period through the Kindertransport . the hon . member for Mid Dorset and North Poole talk about the importance of Holocaust education . I be incredibly proud of the fact that this Government , build on the work of the previous Government , continue to be commit to bridge division between community , challenge hatred and work closely with community group , charity and public sector partner to build that solidarity . this government be actively explore more integrated and cohesive approach to tackle hate crime , and we will share more information in due course . we have allocate £ 54 million for the Community Security Trust to continue its vital work provide security to school , synagogue and other jewish community building until 2028 . we have also commit to reverse the previous Government ' s decision to downgrade the recording and monitoring of antisemitic non - crime hate incident . my hon . friend the Member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) reflect on the harrowing case of her constituent ' s mother , who be kidnap in Gaza , and talk powerfully about the importance of work together to tackle antisemitism and anti - muslim hatred and Islamophobia , and the need to come together , build on the theme of create a " well future " for all . a number of other hon . member talk about the importance of the theme of this year ' s Holocaust Memorial Day . my friend the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) , who have never since his election in 2010 miss one of these debate , speak powerfully about the importance of tackle antisemitism , and speak about the origin of the Holocaust and the escalation of antisemitism . he also speak powerfully about the Holocaust Memorial Bill and the education centre . he raise some important question about the work on lesson from Auschwitz . the Department for Education , along with our Department , support the teaching of Holocaust education by fund two programme — one , as he refer to , for 16 to 18 - year - old — and create the opportunity for young people to visit Auschwitz - Birkenau . we will continue to work together to ensure that we support the education effort . the Department for Education set out an ambitious plan to enable student to have the opportunity to hear record survivor testimony . the autumn Budget commit £ 2 million to support that work . the Department be also explore how it can support school to fulfil that ambition . my hon . friend the Member for Leigh and Atherton ( Jo Platt ) also talk about the importance of Holocaust education , as do a number of member , and the vital need to ensure that we continue to invest in Holocaust education . I have see how powerful that be in school in my constituency , include with , along with the organisation I mention , the Anne Frank Trust UK and many other . the hon . member for Brigg and Immingham ( Martin Vickers ) raise a question about resource . over the past 20 year , the UK have commit more than £ 2 . 5 million of fund to project deal with the aftermath of the Srebrenica genocide , include towards the funding of the construction of the Srebrenica - Poto č ari Genocide Memorial centre . my hon . friend the Member for High Peak ( Jon Pearce ) highlight the increase in antisemitic attack since 7 October . as I say , we be take action to provide support and protection for synagogue , school and other important institution . any form of racism and racial hatred be completely unacceptable in our society . we have allocate £ 54 million up to 2028 for the CST to continue its work of provide security to institution that feel at risk and under threat . the CST record a total of 325 university - relate incident over the two academic year cover by its report , with 53 incident in 2023 and 272 in 2024 . that 117 % rise , from a total of 150 campus incident record from 2020 to 2022 , be completely unacceptable . we know that we must act to ensure that protection be available . we will do all we can to support student , and to ensure that student from different background and faith can come together and not be allow to be divide by force that seek to divide people from different community , particularly in the british jewish community and the british Muslim community . the hon . member for Chichester ( Jess Brown - Fuller ) talk about the critical importance of tackle disinformation and extremism . the Online Safety Act 2023 be introduce by the previous Government and this Government have commit to implement it . the online space have become more and more problematic , and we must tackle the underlie cause as good we can to protect people against antisemitism and other form of hate . my hon . friend the Member for Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy ( Melanie Ward ) , like other hon . member , make an incredibly powerful contribution . she draw attention to her great - grandfather and her jewish heritage . I find it incredibly move , as I do not know about her great - grandfather and his story . I pay tribute to she for the tireless work she have do throughout her career to fight for those who be suffer globally , and in particular for her work on humanitarian issue in conflict zone and her work with medical aid for Palestinians . she be an inspiration to so many of we in the House . my hon . friend the Member for South West Norfolk ( Terry Jermy ) talk about the Holocaust Memorial Day " 80 candle for 80 year " project , which the Deputy Prime Minister take part in . he also refer to the UK be a signatory to the Stockholm declaration , the UK ' s presidency of the international Holocaust Remembrance Alliance and the contribution that the UK be make . the hon . member for Tewkesbury ( Cameron Thomas ) talk powerfully about the need to guard against the demonisation of Jews , Muslims and refugee and to constantly fight intolerance and hatred . my hon . friend the Member for Rochdale ( Paul Waugh ) speak powerfully about the importance of recognise and remember the Srebrenica massacre and the genocide in Bosnia . it be a genocide , as have be confirm by the international court , and we must never forget the victim . the UK have consistently urge all political leader in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the region to reject hate speech and to condemn any glorification of the perpetrator of genocide and war crime . over the past 20 year , the UK have commit more than £ 2 . 5 million of funding to project deal with the aftermath of the Srebrenica genocide . the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) highlight the unity across the House in this very important debate , and I hope we can maintain that . when it come to fight intolerance , antisemitism , anti - muslim hatred and hatred towards other minority group — those with protect characteristic , those with disability and many other — I hope that we can find common cause and that it be not only on day like this that we come together ; I hope we can work consistently against hatred , intolerance and demonisation . I turn to the intervention that this Government , build on the work of the previous Government , be make to protect the british Muslim community . after the 7 October terrorist attack , and in the light of the war in Gaza , anti - muslim hatred and intolerance have grow in our country . this year , the Government have make up to £ 29 . 4 million of protective security funding available to british Muslim community organisation , to protect institution from be target . we have sadly see example of the targeting of mosque , faith school and other organisation . we have also commit more than £ 1 million to support victim of Islamophobia and anti - muslim hatred . my hon . friend the Member for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) talk powerfully about the history of antisemitism through the century and the story of blood libel in the 11th century . it be a great source of pride to see he in this House , as the first representative of jewish heritage and jewish faith for his constituency ; we be incredibly proud to have he here . other Members have speak powerfully about a range of issue . I will not be able to refer to each one of they , but their contribution today have be inspire and powerful . it be incredibly heartening to hear about their leadership role in their community , because , regardless of whether someone be a local representative , or a national representative as a Member of Parliament , the need to constantly fight intolerance wherever we see it must guide and influence our work in our everyday life . that be the vital and painstaking work of Holocaust education charity in our constituency . in my own constituency , I have see at first hand the way that such organisation bring together different community , and child and adult of different faith and none , to learn from the history of what happen in the Holocaust and make sure that we do not allow such atrocity to happen again . this year ' s national ceremony will be film and broadcast on BBC one at 7 pm on Monday 27 January . at 8 pm , there will be a " light the darkness " moment , when iconic building across the United Kingdom will be light up to remember the Holocaust . they include the Houses of Parliament , Cardiff castle , Edinburgh castle , Belfast city hall , Tyne bridge , Clifford ' s Tower in York , the London Eye , Stormont and the Royal Liver building . we can all play our part by place a candle in our window at 8 pm . it be our responsibility to inspire future generation to stand up against hatred , prejudice and evil . the lesson of the Holocaust be not jewish but universal , and they remain relevant today . as my hon . friend the Minister of State say in his opening remark , the long - await ceasefire in Gaza begin on Sunday 19 February . we see the release of three hostage take on 7 October , include the british - israeli hostage Emily Damari , and the release of hundred of Palestinians . across this House , we all hope that these first tentative step will lead to a last peace in which Israelis and Palestinians can live in peace and security . on a personal note , I pay tribute to the british jewish community in my own constituency , where they have have a presence for many generation . in particular , I recognise the contribution that they make in the Battle of Cable Street , when they stand up with trade unionist and many other to fight Oswald Mosley ' s fascist . throughout the generation , and in work with other across our society , the jewish community make place such as the east end of London safe for people like I and for those from the British Catholic community , the british Muslim community and many other . that be the spirit of our country : different community come together to support each other and to create a safe space for we to fight against intolerance . I would like we to take a moment to remember all the Holocaust survivor who share their testimony and be no long with we . I pay tribute to they for the work that they do over many decade . the theme of Holocaust Memorial Day 2025 be " for a well future " . as other have say , it be an opportunity for people to come together , learn about the past and take action to make a well future for all . there be much we can all do to create a well future . we can speak up against Holocaust and genocide denial and distortion . we can challenge prejudice . we can encourage other to learn about the Holocaust , the other victim of the Nazis and subsequent genocide . in remember the 6 million jewish victim of the Holocaust and the million of the Nazis ' other victim , let we all vow to work together in unity and solidarity for a well future . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider Holocaust Memorial Day . Petition - County Council election in West Sussex I hope the Government will pay heed to the strength of feeling across West Sussex and my constituency that election should never be cancel opportunistically under the guise of local government reorganisation . it lead to the disenfranchisement of voter and further erode trust in politic and politician . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that the County Council election mean to take place in May 2025 should not be postpone indefinitely . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to ensure that the County Council Elections in West Sussex take place in May 2025 . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003036 ] high Streets : Autumn Budget 2024 Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) it be an honour to secure this debate on the autumn Budget ' s impact on high street as my first Adjournment debate , not just because it be such a vital topic but because it be a topic dear to my heart . in my maiden speech , I share the story of help my mum on the shop floor , and it seem only fitting that my first Adjournment debate be on our high street . every night after school , and most weekend , I help out in my mum ' s gift shop . I remember chat away to the staff , the customer and our neighbouring business . I remember late night sort out item to donate to the local charity , and the summer when I offer to run the shop myself . I also remember what happen when the economy turn , have to pack away stock and move to small premise because it be that or closure . I remember help my parent with the mortgage as a teenager , gleefully buy break biscuit as a family and only now , later in life , realise how much work my parent put in to keep a roof over our head and food on the table . after many successful year , during which several premise be open , the cost of retail and business rate , the competition from online giant and the decline in consumer spending be too much . my mum could not beat they , so she join they and take her business online . in many way , it be a relief for the family . it be a simple way of continue the business , but it be hard to see the store close 30 year after she first set up shop . my hon . friend be right about how sad it be to see high street shop close , such as the one in which she use to help . we have see local council invest in Cullompton ' s high street , but this be sadly offset by the shop closure . will my hon . friend make some recommendation on what the Government could do to prevent some of these shop closure ? the heart of this debate be about make sure we look after those business and the many more that could open . my story show why this debate be so important to I . I know that the story of our high street be the story of our local community . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will make a little progress . both for the family behind the door , and for the family and local people who shop there , our high street be truly at the heart of the community . I have the honour of represent seven high street across Harpenden and berkhamste , and I be grateful to the local business that respond to my survey ahead of this debate . today , I be share their voice , as well as the impact the Budget will have on their business , their livelihood their family and our community . respond to my small business survey , a local business in Street say that high employer national insurance contribution be one of the major challenge and that it could force they to cancel some of their investment plan . do my hon . friend agree that the measure be propose do not encourage growth and could instead push more high street business to close , significantly impact the already fragile rural economy ? absolutely . sadly , the desperation that come through in my survey show that a lot of business be very worried about their future . rise — Motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) I call on Victoria Collins to stand so that she can take Mr Shannon ' s intervention . I will take the hon . Gentleman ' s intervention . from 1959 to 1979 , my mum and dad have a shop in Ballywalter , and they have a shop before that as well , so there be a history of have shop . I will take the example of today ' s high street in Newtownards . national insurance contribution , wage , theft and attack on shop staff be all issue now be face there . do the hon . Lady agree that the high street need help today like it have never need it before ? absolutely ; that be very much in line with the feedback I have from business . indeed , it be with much disappoint that I share the impact of the autumn Budget on my local business . it be no secret that the Conservatives leave our economy in a mess , and many of our business be still reel from that . that be exactly why it be important for the Government to get this right . many of the proposal in the autumn Budget will not lead to growth on our high street . I would like to have faith that Labour intend to do the right thing and that these be unintended consequence . I hope that the Government hee some of the warning and take action to mitigate the impact and change course . in the word of one director in my constituency , " it be a disaster … all plan investment have be cancel , expansion plan cancel . price will go up on 1st April by at least 10 % . and we ' re look at way to reduce staff count . " do my hon . friend agree that the high street of Tiverton and Minehead , as well as those of every other constituency in the country , will be hurt by this Government ' s decision to lower the amount of relief offer to retail , hospitality and leisure business from 75 % to 40 % ? do she also agree that they should instead be look to replace business rate with an entirely new commercial landowner levy , rather than tinker around the edge and make an already bad system bad ? that be one of the main topic that come up . business share with I that after face the impact of Brexit , closure during covid , cut to local infrastructure follow conservative cut to local government and the soar cost from the cost of living crisis , the combination of measure in the autumn Budget , which include the rise in national insurance contribution , the change in business rate that be just mention and the increase in the minimum wage , as well as propose change that could impact family business , mean that they be now reach crisis point . business that I speak to be largely supportive of an increase in the minimum wage . I want to highlight that because they want to support their staff . however , it be the combination of all those factor , after such a difficult time , that be devastating . the knock - on impact of that combination have also see pre - emptive cost rise across supply chain and worry about consumer confidence , as consumer ultimately spend less on our high street . although the GfK consumer confidence index in the UK rise by one point last December , confidence level remain subdued and retail sale in the UK unexpectedly decline 0 . 3 % month - on - month last December , in a moment in the calendar that be often the most critical time for retail and hospitality on our high street . come back to national insurance contribution for employer , this be a pre - profit cost increase . not only do that need to be manage , but for business that be just about break even or make a loss , it will tip they over the edge and drastically cut the cash flow that be often key to investment . the well - love local Lussmans restaurant in Hertfordshire have be serve local people for 22 year and face around £ 250 , 000 off the bottom line , lead to reduce investment in our local area . Temptation gift will see similar , if not high , cost and say that for the first time in 42 year , it will be shorten opening hour as part of its cost - save measure . it be have to make difficult staffing decision in a business that the family have build over decade . my constituent , Charlotte , manage director of the old family - run jeweller in the UK , say that the mix of high national insurance contribution and high minimum wage cost mean that they will not hire any more staff , and that anyone who leave will not be replace . Almar in Tring , where Carolyn and her husband already work long day , say that the national insurance contribution will be a big issue in their running cost and that they do not know how they will cope work even long day . Chiltern Opticians in Tring highlight the barrier that small business face in hire staff . it say that it be very different for big corporation , which have large human resource team to handle staffing issue , and that " we just don ' t have the budget for it " . these be resilient business — or they have be — and they want to continue to build those business and to employ local people . indeed , I see their pride in support local staff , often call they " family " . Jordan from G . Grace & Son in Tring say : " we be more like a community centre at time , provide essential service to the community . " in that , I hear my mum ' s voice who so often do the same . our pub , restaurant and caf é s in Harpenden and berkhamste cover 197 hospitality venue that employ more than 6 , 000 people and generate nearly £ 143 million in revenue . these business be the backbone of our economy and community . the Government say that they be protect small business , but these be the small business of which they talk . indeed , the official definition of a small or medium - sized enterprise be a company with few than 250 employee . they be grow , local , often family - run business that be nowhere close to be the international giant that have start to dominate retail or hospitality . these local business be happy to pay their way . andrei say : " I have no issue with tax rise , but these be position poorly . the vast majority of the high street be sme and they will be hit the hard . " sadly , the desperation be clear . these small business be worried that the Budget will be the final straw . participant in my local survey say : " what be the point of a small business ? the high street be die . " therefore , when it come to national insurance contribution , will the Government consider mitigation to support the local business on our high street ? these could include a low rate of nic for earning of between £ 5 , 000 and the £ 9 , 100 threshold , or a low rate for low earn taxpayer who work part time — perhaps few than 20 hour per week . as we have hear from many local business , this would help get more people work and support our local economy . at the very least , will the Government consider delay implementation to give business time to adjust and consider their own mitigation ? I wonder whether the Minister will consider what I be about to say . I have be ask to go to the Isle of Skye on Saturday for a crisis meeting . there be a group of hotel , which be family - run business , not big multinational , and they face an awful combination of increase across the board , include heating price increase . their no . 1 issue be national insurance contribution and minimum wage cost . they think that , on average , their cost will go up by between £ 40 , 000 and £ 70 , 000 . they be in a very poor state indeed . can the Minister give I any encouragement that I could pass on to they on her behalf ? Mr MacDonald , your intervention be on the Member , so the question go to she , and she can insist on the Minister respond . my hon . Friend mention the rise in energy cost , which I have not cover in my speech but which have be mention by many of my local business as a matter for consideration . I be sure the Minister will also consider the other comment that he make . when it come to business rate , there be a similar story of despair . the Robin Hood pub say that its business rate will double . g . Grace & Son say : " our business rate be already a huge cost overall to the business , which seem disproportionate give that our premise be relatively small . and increase they will put even more strain on our already stretch budget . " Mark from Tabure restaurant in both Harpenden and Berkhamsted say : " there will be yet another increase in the national minimum wage — this time above inflation . alcohol duty will increase on 1 February . business rate be set to increase in April , along with various increase in national insurance contribution . and this Budget be devastating . " will the Government consider abolish the break business rate system and replace it with a commercial landowner levy ? furthermore , will the Government consider deliver the maximum discount allow by the Budget to support hospitality or small high street business ? I wish that I have the time to dive into all the issue raise by local business , but I will focus on just two more . many be worried about high street service such as parking . with the Conservatives have cut local council funding again and again , many service such as parking and investment in our high street have have to be cut as well . give the Government ' s commitment to local community , will they ensure that investment in local council compensate for the increase in national insurance contribution that council will have to pay , to help they to invest in our high street and relate service ? several family business have highlight the devastating impact of the propose change to inheritance tax . Mike and his wife have work week in , week out for over 40 year , and in their 70 be still work full time to support the business and their employee . they say that they have take low dividend and look after their staff , and hope to hand over the business to their child , but the propose change mean that the business may have to be pull apart . for Charlotte ' s family business , the removal of the 100 % business property relief will mean that it will not be able to stay in the building that it have be in for two century . will the Government carry out a proper impact assessment on inheritance tax for family business , notably where the asset will stay within a business that support the local community ? I once again thank all the business that contact I ; I be sorry that I could not mention they all . similar issue be highlight by local charity , healthcare provider and , indeed , business beyond the high street in Harpenden , berkhamste , Tring , Redbourn , Flamstead , Markyate and Potten End . I suggest that the Minister meet , or continue to meet , with such business up and down the country . Carolyn from Almar have invite the Chancellor to come and see at first hand the challenge of run a high street shop , and plead with the Government to look at measure to mitigate the impact and help our high street to thrive . I will end with a message of hope . I would like to envisage a day when people can head to their local high street in Harpenden , Tring , Redbourn or anywhere in the UK ; when there be proper public transport investment , so it be easy to pop on the bus ; when there be investment in our walkway and cycleway , so people can get down there easily ; and when people can perhaps even find a parking space . a day when the high street be a vibrant place , full of thrive local business ; when people can drop their kid off nearby at the local creche , easily head to the doctor , and relax with friend and family after a busy or sunny day — that is , when the sun come out in the UK . a day when our high street up and down the country be a real experience ; when they have be invest in , and local business be thrive ; and when the beat heart of our community be alive , thriving and no long on life support . with the right investment and incentive , and with adjustment to the autumn Budget , we must start that journey . I congratulate the hon . member for Harpenden and Berkhamsted ( Victoria Collins ) on secure the debate and thank she for share her story of work in her mum ' s gift shop . it be very move to hear that she have have direct experience of work in a shop on the high street . I also thank she for her survey of local small business on her seven high street , which be an impressive number . she outline very well the importance of the business there ; I think she say that there be 197 retail , hospitality and leisure business , employ some 6 , 000 people . I thank she for share those statistic , and the feedback from those business . I share the hon . member ' s passion for the regeneration of our high street . I think it be a concern for member across the House . high street be focal point of economic activity , but most importantly — she say this in her speech — they be often a key part of the unique character of our community . we know that high street business be contend with a range of challenge . she list some of they , but I will list a couple : change consumer shopping habit and the rise of online shopping , and a series of economic headwind , include the pandemic , which we know be particularly difficult for small , independent business on the high street . the Government be commit to reform Britain ' s economy to bring about a decade of national renewal . create an environment in which our high street be able to flourish be critical to that commitment . in her speech , the hon . Member recognise the Government ' s dire economic inheritance from the Conservatives , none of whom be in the Chamber . we have some very difficult decision to make in the Budget , but it be necessary to wipe the slate clean to deliver the economic stability that high street business need . will the Minister say why taxis be put on poor , struggle organisation , such as high - street shop and hotel , rather than the massive online business that be empty our high street ? why do she not consider impose a high rate of corporation tax or income tax , rather than hit the poor business in our society ? the hon . Member pre - empt my next sentence , so I thank he for that . we have commit to reform business rate , because we need a fair system , fit for the 21st century . that important part of our reform and plan will , I hope , benefit the business that the hon . member for Harpenden and Berkhamsted speak about . in recent week , I have be work with an excellent organisation call Family Business UK . before Christmas , it do some research on the impact of agricultural property relief and business property relief on family business , and it be about to do another round of research . do the Minister ' s official want to avail themselves of the result of that research , so that they have well context ? minister be always happy to hear from hon . member . I suggest that the hon . member write to the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury with that feedback . I should note that this be not my policy area ; the Exchequer Secretary be visit small business as we speak , so I be stand in for he , but I be sure that he will welcome that feedback from the hon . Lady . I have listen carefully to the hon . member for Harpenden and Berkhamsted and try to note down all her question , but if I do not get to all of they , I be happy to write to she after the debate ; I hope that be helpful . she ask whether there be any mitigation , and I think she ask we to cancel some of the plan in the Budget . I be afraid that I can not give she that assurance . the change to national insurance will come into force on 1 April . as I say , we have to make difficult decision , and that be one of the most difficult . the hon . Member ask whether we be meet small business . the Exchequer Secretary be meet a range of small business , as be Treasury official , before formulate our plan to reform business rate , which I will talk about briefly . she ask question about inheritance tax ; I will write to she on that , to ensure she get the right answer . she also ask about local government . I be not entirely sure about the question , so perhaps we can clarify that , and I will write to she on that as well . turn in more detail to the hon . member ' s point about national insurance , one of the tough decision we take in the Budget be to raise the rate of employer national insurance contribution from 13 . 8 % to 15 % , but we recognise the need to protect the small business . the Federation of Small Businesses ask we specifically about that , which be why we have more than double the employment allowance to £ 10 , 500 . that mean that more than half of business with national insurance contribution liability will either see no change at all or be take out of pay national insurance contribution . as I say , that be a key demand from small business . to support business , include those on the high street , the Budget honour the manifesto commitment to not raise corporation tax ; it set out the tax road map for this Parliament , in which we will not change corporation tax , which mean we have the low rate in the G7 . all that will support business , from restaurant to retailer , to invest . on the high street , we announce at the Budget major support for pub ; we be cut alcohol duty on qualify draught product , which make up approximately 60 % of the alcoholic drink sell in pub . that represent an overall reduction in duty bill of over £ 85 million a year , and be equivalent to a 1p duty reduction on a typical pint . the hon . Member raise concern about the business rate system ; let I address those in more detail . we very much believe that for too long , the business rate system have place an unfair burden on high - street retail , hospitality and leisure business , as she mention . to support those sector , we intend to introduce permanently low tax rate for retail , hospitality and leisure property with rateable value of less than £ 500 , 000 from 2026 - 27 . that will allow we to provide stability after the ongoing uncertainty of the one - year retail and hospitality leisure relief , which have be extend year by year since the pandemic . that tax cut will be sustainably fund not by increase in taxis on work people , which we promise not to introduce , but through a high tax rate on the most valuable 1 % of business property in the country . that will capture the majority of large distribution warehouse , include those use by online giant , as well as other out - of - town business that draw footfall away from high street . those business rate reform provide the certainty that business need to invest while protect the public finance . the Government have already introduce to the House primary legislation that will provide the underpinning of those reform , and the exact rate for the new multiplier will be confirm later this year in the autumn Budget . many rural town centre in Glastonbury and Somerton , and the business within they , be really worried about business rate . will the Minister consider implement a fundamental business rate overhaul for small business in rural area ? we need to treat all small business equally . I understand the hon . Lady ' s perspective , but I do not think that it would be fair or easy to have a business rate system that distinguish between rural and non - rural . what be rural ? I know the constituency of the hon . member for Harpenden and berkhamste rather well because I live not too far away . Tring be a town there , but other place in her constituency would be quite difficult to categorise as rural or non - rural , so I do not think that we can go down that route , although I understand why the hon . member for Glastonbury and Somerton ( Sarah Dyke ) be try to tempt we down it ; I do not think that would work . the Minister talk about business rate and mention Tring in Hertfordshire . a problem that a lot of local business have mention be that the rateable value be high because property cost be high , even if what they sell be of low value . the difficulty be that they be pay a lot when they might not have high turnover . will the Government consider mitigation for those run business in area with high property cost ? I be here in my ministerial capacity , of course , but I also represent High Wycombe in the south - east , so I understand her point , and promise to take it back to the Department , and to the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury . level the play field for the high street be just the start , and we be commit to transform the whole system in the long term . as we set out in the " Transforming Business Rates " policy paper that we publish alongside the Budget , the Government will create a fairer business rate system that protect the high street , support investment and be fit for the 21st century . it be important that we work in partnership with high - street business to get the reform right . I thank the hon . member for Harpenden and berkhamste for bring the voice of small business in her constituency to our proceeding . government official have undertake a series of roundtable event to understand from business across all sector and size how they think reform of the system can well be deliver . over 200 business have already give their feedback at those roundtable . the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury be lead that work and engage with a broad range of high - street business , as be official in my Department . I appreciate that it be perhaps the Exchequer Secretary who would know this , but will the Government make sure that the reform of business rate that they be propose be not negative for those small business with a very small rateable value that do not currently pay business rate at all ? indeed . the point of the reform be to well protect small business . as the hon . Gentleman say , there be already small business that be protect , but we want to ensure that those small business that be above the current threshold be also protect , and do not pay the rate that they pay at the moment . we want to make sure that small business on the high street be well support — that be the whole point of the reform — so I can reassure he that it will not get bad for small business . it may be the Exchequer Secretary ' s area , but I know that much , so I thank the hon . gentleman for the opportunity to respond to that question . we look forward to further engagement with business over the come month on deliver a business rate system fit for the future . I congratulate the hon . member for Harpenden and berkhamste again on her first Adjournment debate in the House — it be also the first Adjournment debate that I have respond to as a Minister — and thank she for raise this important issue . this Government have deliver the economic stability that high - street business need to thrive , and we be commit to deliver the business rate reform that will support high street up and down the country . question put and agree to . House adjourn .