it be a delight to welcome you to your new position , Madam Deputy Speaker , which I be sure you will fill with great aplomb , as you have do other position that I have see you in over the past few year in this House . I congratulate the hon . member for Lowestoft ( Jess Asato ) on her maiden speech . it be very interesting to hear about her background in the charity sector . her tribute to former member who be inspiration to she and who have pass away be very moving . I know in what high regard Tessa Jowell be hold , particularly by those on the Labour Benches . it be also very nice to hear her tribute to Peter Aldous . he be a calm and quiet man in some way , but he be also a very kind man who really do stand up for his constituent on many of the important issue that she mention . he will be miss by those on the Conservative Benches . one of the first thing that I do when I be a new Member be try to speak to constituency neighbour from other party . those conversation can be incredibly helpful and revealing , and can ensure that you work together on local issue that should really transcend party line . I speak just yesterday with the hon . member for North Durham ( Luke Akehurst ) , who have take an area of my former constituency . I hope the hon . Lady do that , and take advantage of the all - party parliamentary group . one of my good baptism be with the hon . member for Neath and Swansea East ( Carolyn Harris ) , who be superb on the APPG for gambling - relate harm . we work together cross - party with mps from Northern Ireland , the Liberal Democrats and the SNP , so I urge the hon . member for Lowestoft to delve into the APPGs . she give a fantastic maiden speech . thank you very much for call I to speak , Madam Deputy Speaker . I want to touch on a couple of point that have be raise already , and then touch on a few local issue for my constituent , as well as make slight mention of a couple of national issue . the previous Government ' s record be clear . we start with 7 % of our electricity come from renewable source and end with 50 % . that be a good move for the long - term interest of the country . however , as the Committee on Climate Change say , and as I mention in an intervention , there will still be a need for oil and gas in the long term in our country . there be a manufacture base for deliver that , which often work symbiotically with our manufacture base for new offshore wind . I really hope that the Government think about and recognise that . when it come to our energy security , I do not want our country at the mercy of foreign power . I urge they to really think about the impact that not press ahead with new oil and gas in the North sea be have on constituency , particularly in the energy heart of our country , around Aberdeenshire in Scotland . we will require it , so I think that be a mistake . I sort of understand politically why they might have go for that , but I really urge they to think again in the national interest . since 2010 , there have be over £ 300 billion of investment in our energy sector from the private sector . whatever we do , it will be private sector - lead . the relatively small investment figure that the Government have be talk about have be reflect on . I just urge they to ensure that whatever happen be private sector - lead , and deliver the really good long - term job and growth for the country that we have be talk about and have secure over the last few year . I want to pick up on a few thing that the Government have say . my right hon . friend the Member for East Surrey ( Claire Coutinho ) mention the £ 300 a year , but the Minister do not cover that . could he provide clarity on that issue ? it be something that constituent up and down the country will think about . the Minister talk about community - own energy company similar to great British Energy . there have be experience of that ; there be Robin Hood Energy in Nottingham , which end up cost taxpayer a huge amount of money in the long term . I be interested to know whether the Government be invest in the bit that the private sector will not invest in . how can they guarantee the return that the Minister be talk about , and how can they guarantee that the policy will not cost taxpayer more in the future ? as a former member of the Public Accounts Committee , I do not want to see , when I look into this in a few year ' time , that taxpayer be leave on the hook when the private sector would not step in . on the overall cost of the net zero plan , in the run - up to the general election , the Labour party drop its commitment to spend £ 28 billion a year on move towards the 2030 target . I really could do with clarity from the Government on the figure that they be look at , give that in the month precede the general election , shadow Ministers talk about it potentially cost hundred of billion of pound to get to that target . as I mention in an intervention on the Liberal Democrat Front Bencher , the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) , on energy infrastructure , the impact would be on community such as Billericay , Bearsted , and Laindon in my constituency , where there would be 160 - foot pylon right down the centre of an area of unspoilt countryside . I really would ask the Government to reflect on that , particularly as Germany be move to an underground - first approach . if the Germans can do it , I do not see why we can not . it be in the conservative manifesto .