Oral Answers to Questions Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office the Secretary of State be ask — EU - UK Youth Mobility Agreement if he will have discussion with his european counterpart on a potential youth mobility agreement . the Foreign Secretary can not be at today ' s Question Time because he be attend the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting in Samoa with his Majesty the King and the Prime Minister . the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Hornsey and Friern Barnet ( Catherine West ) be also travel , in Vietnam . we will not give a running commentary on our discussion with the European Union . the Minister for the Cabinet Office and other have already make a clear statement on the matter . we will continue to look at EU proposal on a range of issue , but we will not return to freedom of movement . however , we be commit to find constructive way of work together and deliver for the british people . do the Minister agree that if Iceland and Monaco can be approve country under the reciprocal UK mobility scheme , our close neighbour , such as Ireland and France , should be too ? many school in my constituency would like a youth mobility agreement because it would be beneficial to our youth . I be in Iceland the other day . Iceland be , of course , a member of the european economic area and we be not , and we do not seek to rejoin the single market , the custom union or the EU , or to return to freedom of movement . however , the Prime Minister and the President of the European Commission meet in Brussels on 2 October and agree to strengthen the relationship between the EU and the UK and put it on a more solid and stable footing . the Foreign Secretary attend the Foreign Affairs Council in Luxembourg on 14 October . both those meeting mark a significant moment in our reset with Europe . it be welcome to hear the Minister talk about look at what the EU might suggest . it be important to be clear that the youth mobility scheme be not freedom of movement . we already have scheme with Uruguay , Japan , Canada , New Zealand and Australia , and it be clear that strict condition apply to when somebody can come here . will the Minister update we on when he next expect to discuss the subject with the EU ? of course , we discuss a range of issue with our partner and friend in the EU . as I say early , I will not give a running commentary on those discussion . we have be clear that we will not return to freedom of movement or rejoin the EU . Ukraine what step he be take to help support Ukraine . what step he be take to help support Ukraine . I can confirm that , alongside our G7 ally , UK support for Ukraine be iron clothe . we have already make it clear that we will provide £ 3 billion a year of military support for Ukraine for as long as that be need . we be invest in Ukraine ' s defence industrial base and we be ratchet up the pressure on Putin ' s war machine and on third - country supply . I be delighted that the Chancellor have today announce that we will provide £ 2 . 26 billion in additional support to Ukraine as part of the G7 extraordinary revenue acceleration loan to Ukraine scheme . Ukraine be face a difficult winter . what step be the Government take to help ensure that Ukraine be in the good possible position to deal with the challenge that that will bring ? I agree with my hon . friend : Putin ' s shocking and barbarous attack on ukrainian energy infrastructure have increase the vulnerability of million of Ukrainians before this winter . that be why I have announce and sign off £ 20 million in additional support for Ukraine ' s energy system . we be work with partner across Europe and in the G7 to support Ukrainians in this area . do my hon . friend agree that Ukraine ' s rightful place be with other european democracy in the NATO alliance ? my hon . friend will know that the NATO Secretary - General be in London recently alongside President Zelensky , where the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary welcome they . our ally have make it clear that Ukraine ' s future be in NATO and , indeed , in Washington they confirm that Ukraine be on an irreversible path to NATO membership . we will play a lead role in support Ukraine ' s pathway to membership . give that answer , do the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office consider that the report presence of the United Nations Secretary - General at Putin ' s summit in Russia will be helpful or unhelpful to Ukraine ? if the latter , what be the Minister do about it ? while I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question , obviously the meeting that the United Nations Secretary - General choose to attend be a matter for he , not for the Government . we continue to work with a wide range of ally to support Ukraine across the G7 , as we have in relation to today ' s announcement , and with our partner in Europe . do the Minister share my concern about worrying report of north korean troop fight for Russia in Ukraine ? what message would he give from the Dispatch Box to Pyongyang ? I absolutely share the right hon . Gentleman ' s concern . the Foreign Secretary have be clear that we condemn in the strong term the democratic People ' s Republic of Korea ' s continue unlawful arm transfer , and the report deployment of its troop to the Russian Federation to support the unlawful war of aggression in Ukraine . that be not only in violation of multiple United Nations Security Council resolution , but it will also prolong the suffering of the ukrainian people and threaten global security , so we condemn it in absolute term . I call the shadow Minister . to move we beyond the condemnation , in the last week , troop from North Korea have arrive in Russia and be train in russian fatigue , base on video that we have see . in addition , we know that Russia have procure multiple weapon from North Korea to aid the murder of Ukrainians . Putin have seize the escalation ladder , so will the Minister now declare North Korea a combatant in the renew illegal invasion of Ukraine , d é marche the north korean charg é and confirm what unilateral and multilateral action we will be take in response ? I thank the shadow Minister for her point . we absolutely condemn what North Korea be report to have be do . she will have see in our response to the iranian transfer of ballistic missile to Russia that we act strongly , swiftly and firmly . we be closely monitor what Russia be provide to the DPRK in return for its provision of arm and military personnel . we be deeply concerned about the potential for further transfer , include of ballistic missile - relate technology . that would obviously jeopardise peace and stability not only in Ukraine , but across the world , and we condemn it absolutely . British Indian Ocean Territory : sovereignty what the plan timetable be for implement the agreement with Mauritius on the sovereignty of the British Indian Ocean Territory . what assessment he have make of the potential security implication of the agreement with Mauritius on sovereignty of the British Indian Ocean Territory . the Government inherit a situation where the long - term secure operation of the Diego Garcia military base be under threat . the agreement that we have reach secure the future of the base and strengthen our role in safeguard global security . the agreement be subject to the finalisation of a treaty that the Government intend to complete in the come month . Parliament will have the opportunity to scrutinise the treaty in the usual manner , follow its signature . since the mistaken opening of negotiation by the last government on the sovereignty of the Chagos island , it turn out that the british high commissioner and other appear to have be bug by the Government of Mauritius . if the police investigation prove that to be true and we can see that Mauritius — their government at least — be bad actor , be the 99 - year lease on Diego Garcia even worth the paper that it be write on ? we note the report with significant concern , but the hon . Gentleman will understand that I be not go to comment on an ongoing police investigation . as I point out yesterday , the report relate to historical conversation , not during the current round of negotiation . we be confident that we have achieve a treaty that meet our national security objective , close off a migration route and fundamentally respect the interest of the chagossian people . how can the Minister continue to defend the ceding of the Chagos island to Mauritius when China be rapidly expand its influence in the Indo - Pacific ? with no bind agreement against chinese military involvement in the future , have the Government recklessly compromise british and ally security just to appease vested interest ? I completely reject what the hon . Gentleman suggest about Mauritius somehow be in hock to China or the agreement somehow open up a place for China . let I be clear : Mauritius be one of only two african country that have not sign up to the belt and road initiative . there be absolutely no way that we , or the United States , would have sign off a treaty across the national security apparatus that compromise any of our security interest or those of our ally . the unequivocal support from the United States — the President , the Secretary of State , the Defence Secretary and across the establishment — make it clear that this be the right deal for our security and that of our ally . Gaza : humanitarian Situation what step he be take to help improve the humanitarian situation in Gaza . what step he be take to help improve the humanitarian situation in Gaza . what step he be take to help improve the humanitarian situation in Gaza . what step he be take to help improve the humanitarian situation in Gaza . what step he be take to help improve the humanitarian situation in Gaza . what step he be take to help bring humanitarian relief to civilian in Gaza . what step he be take to help improve the humanitarian situation in Gaza . October be likely to see the least aid enter Gaza since the start of the conflict . that be unacceptable . as the Foreign Secretary state on 16 October , the UK be press Israel , alongside our partner , to allow the aid into Gaza that be so clearly need in this desperate situation , and to enable the UN and its humanitarian partner to operate effectively . I recently meet representative from the West London Islamic Centre in my constituency of Ealing Southall , who tell I that they be deeply concerned about the plight of severely injure child in Gaza who need urgent medical help . will the Minister outline what work she be do to ensure that those child have access to the very good medical attention ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this important issue and to her constituent and the very many people across the UK who be determined to do what they can . we have see that with the UK public ' s response to the Disasters Emergency Committee appeal , match by the Government up to £ 10 million . she ask specifically about young child who have be catch up and injure . the extent of disease and injury be significant and deeply concern . we have provide significant support , include through UK - Med for its field hospital in Gaza . last week , my hon . friend the Minister of State announce £ 1 million for the egyptian health Ministry to support medically evacuate Palestinians from Gaza . many resident from Swindon North have contact I express their concern about Gaza . what step be the Minister take to help improve the humanitarian situation in Gaza ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this matter . we see people up and down the country who be very concerned about the humanitarian situation in Gaza . clearly , we now have extreme level of food insecurity . we be very concerned about the situation in northern Gaza in particular . the Foreign Secretary , the Prime Minister and all of we in the ministerial team have be very clear to all actor in the region and other that there must be access to the aid that be so desperately need in all of Gaza . since the devastating Hamas attack on Israel more than a year ago , an estimate 42 , 000 Palestinians have die , include many civilian , and many more family have be repeatedly displace . will the Minister assure I and my constituent that the Government be use the full diplomatic force at their disposal to secure an immediate ceasefire in Gaza and to allow the free flow of humanitarian aid ? yes , I can . a resolution to this conflict have be a priority since day one of the new Government . we be call for an immediate ceasefire , the release of all hostage still cruelly detain by Hamas , and much more aid to enter Gaza . the death and destruction in Gaza be intolerable and we have make that clear at every possible moment . I declare an interest as a former board member of the Disasters Emergency Committee . I be delighted to see the british public ' s generous response to its appeal . I know that its member agency be do everything in their power to get aid to those who need it , but one of those agency , Islamic Relief , tell I yesterday about the situation in Jabalia where people be be " starve , bomb and shoot on sight " . what conversation have the Minister have with israeli counterpart to end the indiscriminate attack on people in Gaza and let in the lifesave aid that the british public be so generously support ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her question . again , I express our gratitude to the DEC for its work in ensure that there have be that emergency appeal for the middle east . I should have mention early that that be cover not just Gaza , but Lebanon and the broad middle east where there be also that urgent humanitarian need . I can reassure she that , on issue of access to aid , the UK Government have be crystal clear on the need for the maintenance of international humanitarian law across the region , which of course include Israel as well , as the Foreign Secretary underline at the end of last week . will the Minister reassure I that September ' s export licence ban with Israel cover item that we reasonably believe could be use to breach international law in Gaza ? will she far reassure I that the remain export licence with Israel largely do not cover the Israel Defence Forces or military equipment ? I wish to be very clear as I think there be some confusion on this important point . follow the 2 September suspension , there be currently no extant UK export licence — I repeat , no extant export licence — for item to Israel that we assess might be use to commit or facilitate a serious violation of international humanitarian law . there be only one exception , which be for F - 35 component , and the Foreign Secretary have explain that to the House . my hon . friend be right to say that most licence for export to Israel be not for the IDF , and I be pleased to be able to put that on the record for the House . the footage of child catch up in the fighting in Gaza be horrendous , and so be the footage of those who be still hold hostage . first , what be the Minister do to ensure the protection of aid worker in Gaza and Lebanon and , secondly , give that she have just tell we that our effort to get more aid in be not work , what be she next idea ? where will we go from here , because clearly it be not work ? we have indeed see some extremely disturbing scene . of course , it be important that we ensure that there be verify information in the fog of such a horrendous war . we have all see those scene and be disturb by they . the UK Government be determined to do all that we can to ensure that aid be access by those who need it . we be use every opportunity to do so , which involve work with UN agency in detail . I have have many meeting with they . the hon . Gentleman will know that we have resume support for the United Nations Relief and Works Agency . we have be in close contact with it , the World Food Programme and all other work on this , and we have also be work bilaterally with all our partner in the region . there be a number of different country work with we to try to ensure that there be access to aid , which be desperately need . I thank my right hon . friend for all that she have do so far on this issue . my constituent , include Damon and Annie , be extremely concerned that every day thing be only get bad . the UN say that all essential supply for survival be run out . give the abject condition in north Gaza , the fact that humanitarian access be nearly non - existent be unconscionable . a year on from the start of the conflict , we be still debate restriction on the flow of aid by israeli authority . what more can my right hon . friend do to ensure that people who be die from hunger , thirst and lack of medical care receive the attention they need ? I can only underline the fact that the new UK Government be do all that we can to get aid in as quickly as possible , support trust partner on the ground to deliver life - save humanitarian aid . as have be mention , we have agree to match up to £ 10 million of public donation to the Disasters Emergency Committee ' s middle east humanitarian appeal . that will provide life - save aid , include medical supply , shelter and clean water , to people in need , on top of the support that we have release to UNRWA . that aid need to get to the people who desperately need it , and I refer to my response to an early question on that point . we be use every avenue to advance that cause . the image come out of northern Gaza have horrify many , as have the news of yet more indiscriminate bombing , and many people have reach into humanity ' s darkest period for historical comparison . I do not know which of those be appropriate , but I do know that on each of those occasion we tell ourselves that this time be different , yet it never be . do the ministerial team realise that what they do now be what they would have do then ? if they do , do they believe that the conversation that they be have be enough , and if they do not , when will they act positively to bring about a ceasefire ? I be grateful to the right hon . member for his question , but he must recognise that from the first day of the new Government come into position we have seek to do all we can to advance the cause of a ceasefire . on the issue of international humanitarian law , which he rightly and clearly state as an imperative , we have be consistently clear as a new Government that Israel must comply with international humanitarian law . it must allow unfettered aid access . our message be clear : Israel could and must do more to ensure that aid reach civilian in Gaza . we have uphold our legal requirement around that , as he will have see in relation to decision take around arm export licence . last month , the Minister of State tell the House that " we could not be clear : intentionally direct attack at civilian object be a war crime . those attack threaten civilian access to power , heating and water supply , impact the safety and livelihood of million of Ukrainians . " — [ Official Report , 2 September 2024 ; Vol . 753 , c . 29 . ] she be right , so why be it that the Government can call out Putin ' s war crime the moment they happen , but they seem utterly incapable of do that when the perpetrator be Netanyahu and the victim be Palestinians ? I regret the tone of the hon . member ' s question . surely he can recognise that the new Government prioritise do all that we can to secure the require ceasefire . the Government have repeatedly convey not just message but action time and again to make sure we play our part , and that have be recognise internationally . the change we have make around UNRWA , our commitment to the International Criminal Court and International Court of Justice , ensure we hold to our legal requirement around arm export — that be a Government that be commit to international humanitarian law . intercept communication demonstrate that Hamas be struggle to find room in their warehouse for the aid that be arrive . what action will the Minister take to ensure that UNRWA actually get that aid to the people who need it — and we accept they need it desperately — when Hamas be prevent it from reach the palestinian population ? the Government be clear that UNRWA play a vital role in save life in Gaza , provide much need food and basic service and support stability in the west bank and wide region . wherever there be allegation or report that there may have be unacceptable activity — such as that cover in the Colonna report — we have state clearly to UNRWA that they must be investigate . it do do that with the Colonna report , and the UK Government have support the implementation of the finding of that report . we continue to discuss that in detail with UNRWA so that it can operate in the manner that it be mandate to do by international law . while I appreciate the comment about aid , do the Minister condemn the ethnic cleansing and annexation of northern Gaza under the general ' s plan , with aid not be allow in ? if so , what action be be take to demonstrate the UK ' s strong objection ? the UK Government be extremely concerned by the situation in northern Gaza . this morning I be discuss it with humanitarian , as I have be do just about every day . we really see a deterioration in people ' s circumstance there in term of health and access to aid . as I say at the beginning of the question , the fact that this month will likely see the low amount of aid since the start of the conflict be unacceptable . we be deeply concerned that we have now see many people who have be displace not just once , twice or three time , but up to nine time . we will continue to argue for the need for humanitarian access to Gaza . far to the answer the Minister give a few moment ago , UNRWA supply be find in the Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar ' s underground hideout . as my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) say , Hamas terrorist be struggle to find warehouse space to store all the misappropriate aid . when will the Government review their commitment to fund UNRWA and actually take action to stop the misappropriation of that aid ? I refer the hon . member to my previous response on that . the UK Government take any such allegation very seriously . we have ensure that those be take up with UNRWA , and with the Colonna report we see a thorough investigation into the allegation , some of which be prove . UNRWA have be take action in order to deal with they . it be really important that neutrality be hold to , and we as the UK have play our part by ensure that UNRWA have the funding require to implement those recommendation . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . follow the removal of the international terrorist Yahya Sinwar and the possibility of an amnesty for those who now release the 97 remain hostage , what pressure be the Government bring to bear on Hamas to urge they to lay down their arm and release the hostage , both of which be necessary for full , unfettered access for humanitarian relief in Gaza ? I be grateful to the right hon . member for raise this incredibly important issue . the suffering , especially of the family and friend of the hostage , be indescribable . the Foreign Secretary and the Prime Minister have meet with they , particularly those who have UK link , and have repeatedly ensure that the release of hostage must be prioritise . they have articulate that message time and time again , and will continue to do so until the hostage be able to return home , as they must be able to do . Co - existence be inescapable , and a two - state solution be one day inevitable , as both Israelis and Palestinians be here to stay . just as the first intifada usher in the historic breakthrough at Oslo , so too Britain — with its deep regional connection , UN responsibility and brilliant diplomatic service — have a key role in lift people ' s eye to a very different future . what discussion be the Government have on this issue , build on the significant effort start under the last government ? we do not always agree across the Dispatch Box , but I strongly agree with the right hon . member ' s characterisation of the need for a two - state solution . ultimately , that be the only way of deliver the peace and security that the people of Israel and Palestine deserve . make sure that we play our part in exercise leadership towards that two - state solution be a long - term commitment of this government , but of course — as he would expect — we need to show what that can deliver . a huge amount of work be ongoing around reconstruction , and I have discuss that issue in detail with the World Bank , for example . it have be conduct a survey of the need that will have to be meet , make sure that work be fully co - ordinated so that we can achieve that secure future for those who be in Gaza at the moment . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the attack see " more than four , five residential block . . . raze to the ground . some … reach the hospital , some … remain under the rubble . " that be the account of Dr Eid Sabbah of Kamal Adwan hospital in northern Gaza , which he give to the BBC yesterday . I have note the Minister ' s qualified response early , but as the UN special envoy for the peace process warn that " nowhere be safe in Gaza " , do she agree that the UK should now cease all arm export to Israel ? with all due respect the hon . member , my county colleague , I urge he to look again at what I state , which stipulate very clearly the legal ground for that decision about arm export . I be clear that the restriction that have be place on arm due to that legal regime , which the UK Government be determined to fulfil , be because the other licence be not go to be use in the manner that some would suggest . we be very clear about the need to fulfil our international responsibility in that regard . the hon . Member also talk about the role of healthcare worker within Gaza , and we pay tribute to all those who have be deliver healthcare . many be british citizen ; the british Government have support UK - Med , and we pay tribute to they . Iran : support for Terrorism what step his Department be take to counter iranian support for terrorism . the Foreign Office work closely with our ally and partner to counter Iran ' s support for proscribe group , which include Hamas — as many member have mention — as well as lebanese Hezbollah and palestinian Islamic Jihad . we currently have over 400 sanction in place on Iran in response to its human right violation , nuclear escalation and terrorism . we also continue to hold Iran publicly accountable for its direct support of terrorism , as my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary do in his intervention at the Security Council on 25 September . Iran ' s malign activity and support for its proxy be destabilise the middle east . do the Minister agree that this must end , and will he say a little more about what step he be take ? I do agree . in all of our effort in the region , we be clear that Hamas and the other iranian proxy that be do so much to destabilise the region must stop . we be work with our ally to that effect , include by review new measure that we can take . for year , the Foreign Secretary and the Labour party have promise to proscribe the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps , the chief sponsor of global terrorism . be the Government go to take action to tackle terrorism and extremism in the UK , or be they go to break yet another promise ? as I understand the question from the former Home Secretary , she be say that when she be Home Secretary she do not proscribe the irgc , but she think we should have do so within 100 day . I say to my hon . friend that we will take the necessary step in the UK to prevent the irgc from take action on these street , but as she know well , we do not comment on whether an organisation be under consideration for proscription in the normal way . Illegal Migration what step he be take with his international counterpart to help tackle the driver of illegal migration into the UK . I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise the issue of illegal migration . this government be strengthen key international relationship to tackle organise immigration crime , increase return and secure our border . my Department be also fund activity to address the driver of irregular migration by improve the prospect of people in their home region , tackle humanitarian crisis and target trafficking . will the Minister please outline the way in which the new Government be work with our french partner to tackle the share challenge of dangerous channel crossing ? the UK Government have be absolutely determined to work with our key partner on these question . my Department have also focus on ensure support for what be often call upstream migration — the driver of the reason why people feel they have to leave their home country or region in the first place . that have include , for example , support to help refugee in Jordan to stay in the region from which they come and support for the UN ' s migration multi - partner trust fund . I thank the Minister for that response . legal immigration be very important , and people should have that opportunity if they have be persecute or there be human right issue , but economic migrant have to be stop in their country . France also have a very clear part to play , and we sometimes feel that it have not do so as strongly as it should have do . have the Minister have an opportunity to speak to her french counterpart to ensure that France play its part in stop the economic migrant come across the channel ? I be grateful to the hon . member for his important question . this new Government have be determine to strengthen our relationship with all of our partner , include France , on these question . my right hon . friend the Home Secretary have view this as a priority from day one , and she have be determine to ensure that we have both the right legal framework and the right logistical measure . as I have say , we of course need to tackle the reason why people can not have a livelihood in their own country , and we be do a huge amount in the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to ensure we deliver on that . artist tour in the EU what support his Department provide to UK artist tour in the EU . I thank the hon . Lady for her question . culture , Media and Sport Ministers be responsible for Government policy on tour artist , with support from colleague across Government . the Government provide support for artist via the music export growth scheme , fund by the Department for Business and Trade and the Department for Culture , Media and Sport , and the international showcase fund , fund by the DBT . we be engage with the EU and member state to explore how good to improve arrangement for tour in Europe without a return to free movement . young emerge artist , the very future of our multibillion - pound music industry , be the bad impact by the bureaucracy we now have . will the Minister reconsider negotiate a european - wide exemption from visa , work permit and travel restriction to set UK artist free from frustrating red tape ? the hon . Lady raise very important issue , and we recognise the challenge face by the sector that she set out . we be committed to help our touring artist without seek a return to freedom of movement . I will work closely with my right hon . friend the Minister for the Cabinet Office , as well as with Culture , Media and Sport Ministers and other colleague , on these issue . we be committed to seek allowance for cabotage , carnet , and custom rule for music , perform art and culture touring , but at this stage it be too early to discuss that in great detail . relationship with EU Counterparts what recent progress he have make on reset relationship with his EU counterpart . I thank my hon . friend for his question . my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister meet the President of the European Commission on 2 October , and agree to strengthen the relationship between the EU and the UK and to hold regular UK - EU summit . the Foreign Secretary attend the EU Foreign Affairs Council on 14 October in Luxembourg , and he and the High Representative agree to advance discussion towards a new UK - EU security partnership . I have have many meeting bilaterally , and indeed as part of process alongside EU colleague , on issue from Moldova to the western Balkans in recent week . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s attendance at the EU Foreign Affairs Council . will the Minister confirm if this will be part of a more regular , structured engagement with our european colleague ? I can absolutely confirm that that be the case . we be commit to reset our relationship and to deliver outcome in practice . as I mention , I attend the Moldova partnership platform in Chisin ă u last month . it be particularly important that we work alongside our EU partner when it come to the attack on Moldova ' s democratic future by Putin ' s Russia . we also have important discussion about the western Balkans in Berlin last week . I be there with the President of the European Commission and Chancellor Scholz , and it be absolutely important that we work together on these critical challenge . while we hope that it never happen , if a future american President wish to withdraw support from Ukraine , will the Government assure we that that would be a prominent item on the agenda in their conversation with EU leader ? obviously , decision in America be for the american people , but the special relationship endure , regardless of the Administration or who be in the White House , and it be deep and enduring , as the right hon . Gentleman know well from his important former role . we absolutely need to co - operate with our EU partner on support for Ukraine , and that be why today it be so fantastic to hear the news that we have agree , as promise , with the G7 and with our european and indeed our american partner , the extraordinary revenue acceleration scheme that will deliver new money to Ukraine now . Chinese Communist Party : threat to Democracy what recent assessment he have make of the level of threat to UK democracy pose by the Chinese Communist party . as a matter of long - stand policy , which the hon . Gentleman will understand , the Government do not comment on the detail of national security matter , but let I be clear : any attempt by any foreign power to threaten or undermine the UK ' s democracy will not be tolerate . the National Security Act 2023 bring together vital new measure to protect our national security , which we be commit to as a new government . I regularly meet my ministerial colleague , include the Minister for Security , to discuss those matter . thousand of Hongkongers have make my local community their home under the british national overseas visa scheme , but too many of they still face the threat of surveillance , harassment , and intimidation by the chinese state . will the Government confirm that they have raise the issue of transnational repression in conversation with the Chinese Government , and make clear that it be a totally unacceptable interference in british democracy ? the Government will take a consistent long - term and strategic approach to our relation with China , root in the UK and global interest , and the Government be deeply committed to support all member of the Hong Kong community who have relocate to the UK . I reiterate that any attempt by foreign government to coerce , intimidate or harm their critic overseas be unacceptable , and regardless of nationality , freedom of speech and other fundamental right of all people in the UK be protect under our domestic law . my constituency be also home to a new and grow population of Hongkongers who , although they be now in a free country , live in fear of the repression that the hon . member for Carshalton and Wallington ( Bobby Dean ) describe . that be not least because of the report presence until recently of a secret police station in Glasgow , run by the Chinese Communist party . will the Minister join I in send a clear signal to the chinese state : " hand off Hong Kong Scots " ? I have make clear our support to the Hong Kong community in the UK , and we have make clear to chinese authority that the existence of undeclared site in the UK be unacceptable , and their operation must cease . we have be tell that they have now close . the Foreign Secretary be in China on 18 and 19 October , where he meet his counterpart Foreign Minister Wang Yi and other senior chinese figure , and he raise human right , include issue relate to Hong Kong . I call shadow Minister Alicia Kearns . freedom of speech be fundamental to democracy , yet Jimmy Lai ' s sham trial be due to resume on 20 November . the Foreign Secretary have so far fail to meet Jimmy ' s family , as well as that of Jagtar Singh Johal , whom he promise he would meet within week at the last Foreign Office oral question . five week ago , I write to Ministers about Ryan Cornelius and Alaa Abd el - Fattah , who should both be free by now , but I have receive no response from the Department . when will the Government bring forward their promise special envoy for arbitrary detention , come back to shadow Foreign Ministers , and get our people home ? we call on the Hong Kong authority to end their politically motivated prosecution and immediately release british national Jimmy Lai . his case remain a high priority for his Majesty ' s Government , and UK diplomat attend his court hearing in Hong Kong . the Foreign Secretary recently raise the case with Wang Yi during his visit to Beijing on 18 October . on 24 July the Foreign Secretary raise the case of Jagtar Singh Johal with the Indian External Affairs Minister , and I be happy to write to the hon . Lady far about those matter . she can be assure that we take these case incredibly seriously . Lebanon : ceasefire what diplomatic step he be take to help secure a ceasefire in Lebanon . what diplomatic step he be take to help secure a ceasefire in Lebanon . the UK be the first G7 country to call for an immediate ceasefire between lebanese Hezbollah and Israel , when we do so on 19 September . a political solution consistent with resolution 1701 be the only way to restore security and stability for the people live on both side of the blue line . we continue to press for that with vigour and urgency with our international counterpart . the Foreign Secretary do so last week , and so do I . we will continue to do so this week and every day . we be appal by the increase in violence after Israel ' s ground invasion of Lebanon . as somebody who use to work in Beirut when the country welcome a million syrian refugee , it be upsetting to see people on the move again after so much violence . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his diplomatic effort so far . do the Minister agree that there be no military solution to the conflict in Lebanon ? will he outline again in more detail what diplomatic effort he be make to ensure that we have a ceasefire so that lebanese and israeli civilian can return to their home ? we agree very much . only a political solution will enable lebanese civilian to return to their home and israeli civilian to return to the north of Israel . clearly Hezbollah have be conduct terrible attack on northern Israel for a long time — from 8 October , which be a terrible day to choose to start . we be work with all our ally on a plan base around resolution 1701 . we talk regularly with all the key player in the region and in particular with Amos Hochstein , the US envoy work on a proposal to achieve the effect of 1701 . we will continue to do so . the report attack on United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon basis by the Israel Defence Forces show disregard for resolution 1701 and the exist diplomatic framework for peace . last week ' s joint statement by Foreign Ministers and our ally condemn all the threat to UNIFIL ' s security be welcome , so can the Foreign Minister tell the House what discussion he have have with israeli political leader to supplement that action ? be they productive ? I thank my hon . friend for her important question . we be absolutely clear that attack by the IDF on UNIFIL basis must stop , and they must stop immediately . we have call on Israel to that effect . we have call on all party to uphold their obligation in ensure the safety and security of UNIFIL personnel . I be sure that many in this House will be look each day at the report from UNIFIL on the situation there . as I have say in answer to previous question , only a political solution consistent with UN Security Council resolution 1701 can restore stability and security . we continue to raise these matter with the Israelis at every level , and I will continue to do so this week . UNIFIL and UN Security Council resolution 1701 plainly have not prevent the construction of tunnel and forward attack position by iranian proxy south of the Litani river . what discussion will the Foreign Secretary be have with the United Nations to ensure that something be put in place to replace 1701 , to strengthen the role of UNIFIL and prevent aggressive action by Hezbollah and its fellow traveller ? the first thing we have to do be get Hezbollah back north of the Litani river , consistent with 1701 . we should not move away from 1701 until we have make progress under it . I recognise the force of what the right hon . Gentleman say about the concern about Hezbollah ' s presence close to the israeli border , in breach of UN Security Council resolution . I condemn the attack , include the missile strike that have be happen since 8 October , and all the other violence that lebanese Hezbollah have be responsible for . it be proscribe under UK law and we hold no truck with it , but the way to get Hezbollah away from the border be 1701 , and that be what we have to stick to . Finn Pugh , who be eight year old and be one of my constituent , write to I . he say : " Lebanon be a wonderful place . it do not deserve this . I would like the Government to protect the people of Lebanon and give they supply like food and water . " what reassurance can the Minister give Finn ? I thank Finn for the question . over the course of the past few week , we have announce £ 15 million of aid for the people affect by the strike in Lebanon and those who be now cross towards Syria , which be a concern development in the conflict . Finn be right to have the people of Lebanon in his mind , and we be do all we can to try to ensure that the humanitarian system in Lebanon can support the people Finn be concerned about . I call the Chair of the Select Committee on Foreign Affairs . the new Government ' s call for an immediate ceasefire in Lebanon and in Gaza be , of course , greatly welcome . however , today we hear that one of UNIFIL ' s watchtower be bomb by the Israel Defence Forces . first , be that one of the watchtower that we have provide ? secondly , what conversation have the Minister have with his colleague about beef up our support to UNIFIL and take our troop number up from one ? I will have to write to my right hon . friend about the specific watchtower and whether we have provide any aid . underlie her point , I think , be a question about what we do when our statement about UNIFIL be not abide by . let I be clear with the House : the current situation be unsustainable , and we continue to raise the matter through all diplomatic measure and will do so until there be progress . I can perhaps write to my right hon . friend about our future plan regard peacekeeper in Lebanon . there be only one route to sustained peace in Lebanon , and that be for the UN and the lebanese state to stop Hezbollah carry out its operation . that ' s right , isn ' t it ? we agree that lebanese Hezbollah should not be conduct the action that it have be conduct . as I say in response to the previous question , this situation need to be resolve in accordance with the UN Security Council resolution . if the right hon . Gentleman be ask I whether we think what lebanese Hezbollah be do across the blue line be correct or justifiable , my answer be that it be not . we call on it , as we have always call on it , to stop . we have proscribe the organisation domestically and have absolutely no truck with it whatsoever . Iran ' s malign influence in Lebanon must stop , and we be take action to try to effect that . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . over the last four month , we have be reconnecte Britain for our security and prosperity . last week I set out my vision for modernise international development , and as I speak the Foreign Secretary be in Samoa , meet head of Government from the Commonwealth , and he have engage with country from every continent . the BBC World Service be vital UK soft power . the Foreign Office ' s contribution to its funding be about £ 100 million per year — about the cost of an F - 35 fighter jet . the UK have plan to acquire 74 of these fighter jet . would the Minister agree that we might consider acquire only 73 of they , if that be the price of preserve the BBC World Service ? that be a very fine question . the BBC World Service be a UK soft power asset . we give £ 104 million to the BBC World Service — [ interruption . ] order . would the hon . member for Plymouth Moor View ( Fred Thomas ) please not walk behind the Minister while he be in the middle of his answer ? I be really go to have to say something to the Whips . we provide £ 104 million to the BBC World Service . that be very good value indeed . I will not seek to get into budget negotiation in advance of the Budget — I know well than that — but I agree very much about the importance of the World Service and the vital function it provide internationally . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . recent event in Moldova be yet another example of the importance of combat the modern scourge of weaponising disinformation . what new measure be the Government plan to implement to counter disinformation spread by our adversary ? I be grateful to the shadow Foreign Secretary for raise such an important issue . we be launch a new global programme to support resilient , free , open and trustworthy independent medium as a bulwark against disinformation . that build on the success of previous media development programme . we be also determined to work with international partner , include UNESCO , to make sure that we play a role in combat disinformation . far to the comment from the hon . member for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) , do the Minister share my dismay that , although the director general of the BBC profess that it represent a key source of democratic soft power in the face of the spread of state and non - state disinformation , it now intend to cancel its internationally admire interview programme " HARDtalk " , which have a global reputation for hold those in power to account ? any editorial decision on BBC content will be make by the BBC alone — that be right and proper . all I can say be that wherever I be in the world , it be clear quite how powerful the BBC be — a soft power perhaps , but a very important reflection of our value as a country and of deep connection between the people of Britain and other nation . we be determined to ensure that that remain the case . while we await the outcome of the Foreign Secretary ' s review and our Chancellor ' s forthcoming Budget , and remain confident that the Home Office ' s plan will be successful in reduce domestic refugee cost , this issue remain of concern across the House . will the Minister reassure the House that she will do everything she can to protect these aspect of our foreign aid budget , and will she meet I and concerned colleague to discuss how we can take they forward after the Chancellor ' s Budget ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this issue . I would be very happy to meet he and other member , particularly from the Government Benches , where we have a considerable number of mps with direct experience of international development work . my right hon . friend the Home Secretary be commit to bring order to the asylum system . she have take step to unblock the backlog of claim . the fact that we lack a plan to do that previously lead to spiral cost , which hit the international development budget very hard . order . I have to get through the list of question , and you be not help I . you be take far too long . I have to get the Back Benchers in — it matter to they and to their constituent . you have to work with I , and today have be a pretty awful day all round . I call the Lib Dem spokesperson to give we a good example . Laila Soueif be in the Gallery with we today . she be currently on hunger strike in protest against the continue imprisonment of her son , the british - egyptian citizen Alaa Abd el - Fattah , in Egypt despite the end of his five - year sentence on 29 September . in 2022 , the then shadow Foreign Secretary talk about serious diplomatic consequence for Egypt fail to release Alaa , and of leverage our trading partnership with Egypt to progress the case . do the Minister agree with the now Foreign Secretary on those point , and will the Government take step — order . another bad example . I welcome Laila to the House . I see she in Cairo last week , and raise these issue with the egyptian Foreign Minister . Alaa ' s case be very much in our mind , and we will do everything we can to secure his release as quickly as we can . in 2020 , the US commit £ 250 million to support peace building and palestinian economic development . will the Minister consider how we can work with our partner in the US , use our world - lead development expertise and our experience in conflict resolution in Northern Ireland , to take a lead in this vital work ? my hon . Friend ask an important question . peace building at a civil society level have an important role to play in try to resolve this conflict . I will write to he with detail of our plan . I welcome this Government ' s ambition in seek a new climate finance goal at COP29 in Baku shortly . will the Minister assure I that she understand the scale of need ? the UN Environment Programme say that 10 to 18 time more funding be need for adaptation than be currently on the table . will she make sure that it include loss and damage and be additional to aid ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for a very important question . the UK Government could not have be clear that climate and nature must be at the heart of all that we do , include in foreign and development policy . the Foreign Secretary underline that at Kew , and I underline that in the Chatham House speech that I give last week . rise — order . member who be on the list do not need to stand . it be more confusing . it be estimate that more than 42 million tonne of rubble could be contaminate by unexploded bomb and ordnance in Gaza . it be vital that such a serious threat to human life be deal with effectively to ensure Gaza ' s post - conflict reconstruction . will the Minister commit to redouble our country ' s support for the work of organisation such as the HALO Trust ? the amount of unexploded remnant of war throughout Gaza pose a serious threat to life and the provision of humanitarian assistance . the UK be work proactively with a number of key stakeholder . we very much recognise the expertise of the HALO Trust , and we will redouble the work do , particularly towards reconstruction . Hezbollah continue to use lebanese civilian as human shield . on Friday , the caretaker Prime Minister in Lebanon accuse Iran of blatant interference in lebanese affair . what more will the Minister do to help ensure that both israeli and lebanese counterpart can face down the threat from Iran ? I refer to our action against Iran in the region , and the importance of remove its influence in Lebanon as good we can . this week I will attend the Lebanon conference in Paris , where these matter will be discuss . far to the question from across the way on climate change , what step be the Minister take to support climate change development internationally ? my hon . friend raise an incredibly important point . it be critical that the UK can speak with credibility on these issue — and now , under the new UK Government , we can , give the creation of GB Energy and the other measure that we have take . we be ensure that climate leadership be always to the fore , include in the conference of the party . of course , the COP nature summit in Colombia be fast approach . winter be now approach the northern hemisphere , and many civilian in Palestine and Lebanon be without home , water and electricity . what be the Government do to support winterisation effort in the region ? the hon . Gentleman raise an incredibly important question . many displaced people have very few of the clothe and belonging that they desperately need , particularly give that the threat of winter and much bad weather be come speedily down the track . the Government have be discuss the issue with many of our partner . what update can the Minister give we on UK support for the International Fund for israeli - palestinian Peace ? will the Government convene a summit of international partner to ensure that civil society be at the heart of peace building in the come year in the region ? I refer my hon . friend to my previous answer . I will also write to he with further detail of what we will do . we be experience a global hunger crisis , exacerbate by ongoing conflict and climate change . that make the forthcoming Paris Nutrition for Growth conference even more important . what preparation be the Government make for an effective contribution to the summit ? the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to raise that point . we be prepare at pace for that Paris conference , which be incredibly important . we need to do all we can to secure access to the food require , and it must be nutritious , healthy food . in addition , the UK be prepare to sign up to the Global Alliance against Hunger and poverty — something that I commit the UK to do in Brazil just a few week ago . I have live and work in the western Balkans , where government continue to increase effort to tackle human trafficking , exploitation and coercion . what step be proactively be take with Albania and other western Balkan and mediterranean country to tackle human trafficking at source ? the Government be commit to work more closely with partner across Europe , include Albania and partner across the western Balkans , to tackle people traffic and the gang profit from it . that have be a regular part of my bilateral discussion . in July , we announce step to reinforce our co - operation with Europol and commit £ 4 million towards the Rome process — an italian Government project to tackle the root cause of irregular migration . what discussion have Ministers have with their israeli counterpart about the application of distinction and proportionality in international humanitarian law ? the Foreign Secretary have set out our view on the israeli application of international humanitarian law at great length in relation to the decision to suspend arm licence . we keep those issue under regular review and will update the House if there be a change in our assessment . as we have hear again today in the Chamber , war crime in Gaza continue , make it clear that the time for empty promise and hollow word be over . do the Minister agree that the international community must finally fulfil its responsibility and take real action , start with immediate sanction on the hard - right extreme Ministers in the Netanyahu Government ? I hope member recognise that the word that we have be speak at this Dispatch Box have not be hollow . since come into government , we have restore funding to UNRWA . we have also take step in the International Criminal Court and the International Court of Justice , and in relation to the arm suspension that I refer to a moment ago . as for the far - right settler to whom I think my hon . friend be refer , we introduce sanction last Thursday . my right hon . friend the Prime Minister make it clear during Prime Minister ' s question that we continue to review these issue , and we will return to the House . the outgoing President of the United States have indicate that he have be tell where and when the israeli Government will respond to the iranian terror threat . have our Government be inform ? I think that you , Mr Speaker , and other Members will understand that it be not appropriate to comment on that in the House . as the Minister will know , the ICJ have rule that member state such as the UK be oblige to distinguish in their dealing between green - line Israel and occupy territory . in line with that ruling , as well as obligation under United Nations Security Council resolution 2334 , what step be the Government take to address the issue of product enter the UK from illegal settlement ? I will write to my hon . friend about the complex issue of trade with Israel and how we make that distinction , if that be okay . I be sure that the Minister be aware of the tragic case of Sara Sharif , which occur in my constituency , but he may not be aware that when Sara ' s family flee from Woking to Pakistan , they take Sara ' s two sibling , and when the parent return to stand trial , those sibling do not return with they . will he write to the Pakistani Government inform they that unless they vouch for the sibling ' safety , those child should be return to the UK ? I can assure the House that the safety and wellbeing of british child overseas , which appear to be relevant in this case , be of the utmost concern to the Government as a whole , and to I as the Minister responsible for consular affair . I will write , and will meet the hon . member , if that will be useful in help we to understand the case and what we can well do to support those child . I call the Chair of the International Development Committee . even before the start of the current conflict in Gaza , 98 , 000 child there have a disability . thousand more have now be horrifically injure , and those with long - term condition have not receive any medical support . while I welcome the Government ' s commitment to facilitate medical evacuation , how be that possible when Israel be control the rafah crossing ? my hon . friend have detail knowledge of this issue through her work on the International Development Committee . we be of course determine to do all that we can for the wellbeing and safety of child in Gaza , in partnership with other country . she raise the issue of healthcare ; we have be support UK - Med and other organisation in that regard , and also in respect of education . many child have be out of school for a year , and we be determined to rectify the situation . will the Minister update the House on the grim situation in Sudan ? in particular , what pressure be be put on regional actor to stop fuel the crisis , and what be the UK do to help the 16 million child who , accord to an estimate from Save the Children , face severe food shortage right now ? the humanitarian crisis in Sudan be the bad in the world . million of people face food insecurity , and disturbingly , it have now be verify that there be famine in the Zamzam refugee camp . we in the UK will continue to do all that we can , for instance in our role as a penholder . we will work with partner to raise the profile of this situation and make it clear to the war party that they must allow access to aid . Ukraine with your permission , Mr Speaker , I will make a statement on Ukraine . I apologise for the delay in get you and Opposition Front bencher a copy of my statement ; the responsibility be entirely mine . I have just return from three day of intense defence diplomacy — first , at the NATO Defence Ministers meeting in Brussels , where we welcome President Zelensky , and then at the G7 Defence Ministers meeting in Naples , where we have important update from the battlefield , agree that this be a critical point in the conflict , and stress the need to step up and speed up support for Ukraine . the G7 joint declaration strongly condemn Putin ' s illegal invasion and reinforce our unwavering support for Ukraine . it also rightly state that " Russia ' s aggression against Ukraine be pose a threat to international security , the purpose and principle of the UN Charter , and the rule - base international order . " that be what be at stake for we all . if President Putin prevail in Ukraine , he will not stop there . if big nation redraw international boundary by force , the sovereignty and security of all nation be undermine . that be why the UK ' s military , economic , industrial and diplomatic support , alongside that of our ally , be so important . I have return to the UK know that NATO and the G7 be unite for Ukraine , just as the UK be unite for Ukraine . our job now be to turn the talk into action , which be exactly what the Government be do . today , the Chancellor and I be announce that the UK will provide an additional £ 2 . 26 billion to Ukraine . this be new money , which will be deliver under the extraordinary revenue acceleration loan to Ukraine scheme . it be part of the $ 50 billion loan package from G7 country to support Ukraine ' s military , budget and reconstruction need — loan that will be repay use the profit generate from immobilised russian sovereign asset . profit on frozen russian money will support Ukraine ' s fight against Putin , turn the proceed of Putin ' s corrupt regime against it and put they in the hand of Ukrainians . I want to be clear : today ' s new money be in addition to the £ 3 billion a year of military support that this Government have commit to Ukraine each year for as long as it take . the money be in addition to that in the £ 3 . 5 billion defence industrial support treaty that I sign with Defence Minister Umerov in July ; that be money that Ukraine will use to procure military equipment from british company , boost british job and british industry . today ' s new money be also in addition to the extra artillery , air defence , ammunition and missile that we have announce and deliver in the first four month of this new Government . Ukraine be a first - order priority for I as Defence Secretary , and for this Government . we will continue to step up support , to lead , and to stand with Ukraine for as long as it take . it be 973 day since Putin launch his full - scale illegal invasion , and Ukraine ' s civilian and military alike have be fight with great courage . there have be important battlefield development in recent week . when I last update the House , ukrainian force be one month into their remarkable offensive in Kursk . three month on , they continue to hold russian territory . Ukraine ' s strategic surprise have put Putin under pressure , force the diversion of some russian troop and equipment . despite the increase in brutal russian counter - attack and aerial bombardment , they have so far fail to dislodge the ukrainian incursion . it be not just in Kursk that Ukraine be fight back . ukrainian force have launch long - range attack into russian territory and on military target that be directly support Putin ' s illegal invasion . in September , Ukraine use long - range drone to attack four ammunition storage facility — strike that successfully destroy thousand of tonne of ammunition — and both the defensive thrust into Kursk and the strategic defensive strike into Russia have have an impact on the battlefield . Russia ' s advance towards Pokrovsk in the east — Putin ' s main line of effort — have be slow . russian loss continue to rise . since the start of the conflict , Russia be likely to have suffer 675 , 000 casualty . in September , the average casualty rate of Russians on the battlefield in Ukraine each day be 1 , 271 — a record high , two and a half time the rate this time last year . as for equipment , Russia have now lose 3 , 400 tank and 8 , 500 armoured vehicle , and 26 vessel in the Black sea fleet have be destroy or damage . despite the incredible resilience of the Ukrainians , they remain under great pressure from russian force across multiple front . russian troop continue to advance and to attack ukrainian infrastructure , target the important port of Odesa and strike energy infrastructure . as we head into winter , Ukraine ' s energy generation capacity have be reduce by up to two third of pre - war level . russian industry remain on a war footing . russian artillery be outfire Ukraine by at least three to one , and Russia be recruit an additional 400 , 000 troop this year . defence will account for 32 % — one third — of the total Government budget in Russia next year . in a concern new development , it be now highly likely that the transfer of hundred of combat troop from North Korea to Russia have begin . for north korean soldier to support Russia ' s war of aggression on european soil be as shocking as it be desperate . North Korea already send significant munition and arm to Russia , in direct violation of multiple UN resolution . the develop military co - operation between Russia and the democratic People ' s Republic of Korea have serious security implication for Europe and the Indo - Pacific . it represent a wide grow alliance of aggression that NATO and the G7 nation must confront . despite this dangerous development , Ukraine remain determined to fight on its frontline in the east and in the territory in Kursk , and President Zelensky will continue to seek support for his victory plan . we want the plan to succeed , and we stand ready to work closely with the Ukrainians and ally to help it to do so . as we approach 1 , 000 day of this war , the conflict be at a critical moment , which be why the UK continue to step up its support for Ukraine . Ukrainians be fight to regain their sovereign territory and to protect peace , democracy and security for the rest of we in Europe . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of his statement . I offer my condolence and those of Opposition Members to the family and friend of Corporal Christopher Gill , who we understand tragically lose his life during a training exercise recently . we understand that he serve his country for 13 year , include in Afghanistan , and more recently volunteer to train ukrainian soldier in the UK . have visit Salisbury plain last May to see Operation Interflex , I know that we should be grateful to all our service personnel , include Corporal Gill , who have play such a huge role in train the ukrainian armed force so that they can continue to fight and defend their homeland . that fight go on , and we continue to offer all support to the Government for that , as well as stand by the Government , people and armed force of Ukraine . we therefore warmly welcome the G7 joint declaration and funding announcement , but we share the Government ' s concern in relation to North Korea . I have lose count of the many time that Vladimir Putin have accuse we and our ally of so - call escalatory action in our support for Ukraine , but today we be consider the very real threat of north korean combat troop be send to support Russia ' s illegal invasion . let we be in no doubt : any potential agreement between Putin and Kim Jong - un to have north korean boot on the ground in Ukraine at all — let alone in the number that have be report — would be a major escalatory ratchet by Putin himself . after all , as the Secretary of State confirm , Russia have already procure munition and ballistic missile from North Korea . the transfer of those weapon in the first place be not only completely unacceptable , but a blatant violation of the UN sanction that Russia itself vote for . the transfer of north korean weapon and now the threat of combat troop show weakness and desperation , not strength , on Putin ' s part , as the Secretary of State say . above all , this raise the question of what Putin be offer North Korea in return , but we should not be deter and must respond . we take decisive countermeasure to help constrain the transfer of weapon between North Korea and Russia . the Conservative Government impose sanction on the arm - for - oil trade between Russia and North Korea , include asset freeze , travel ban and transport sanction . the new Government , in turn , must now respond to this late threat of combat troop . can I press the Secretary of State to look at how the UK should respond in the round ? yes , we need to look at the diplomatic tool we can use to disrupt co - operation between North Korea and Russia , but we also need to urgently look again both at our military aid to Ukraine and at the freedom we offer it to use the munition that we supply , particularly long - range missile . give the need to continue provide further capability to Ukraine , we welcome yesterday ' s announcement that the UK will contribute £ 2 . 26 billion to the G7 extraordinary revenue acceleration loan scheme for Ukraine . the Conservative Government be a vocal advocate for mobilise frozen russian asset to support Ukraine . we strongly welcome the additional funding . when will the money be make available to Ukraine , and over what term ? the soon those fund be mobilise , the well . when exactly will Ukraine receive the funding ? finally , we have speak many time of the reality that we be face not just russian aggression , but a broad authoritarian axis that ultimately threaten the UK . we have see that explicitly with Iran and the Red sea , and now we see it come ever close to home with the prospect of north korean troop deploy in a european theatre of war . surely that strengthen even far the argument that the Government need to deliver on their suppose cast - iron guarantee to spend 2 . 5 % on defence . as the Secretary of State fail to answer I at Defence oral , can I once again press he to confirm that he be fight hard , with the Treasury , to deliver a clear pathway to 2 . 5 % in the Budget at the end of this month ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his comment about Corporal Gill . I will pass they on to his widow and make sure that his family be aware of they and of the sentiment of the whole House . the hon . Gentleman be right about the enormous contribution that Corporal Gill make , include to the Interflex training programme , which I be proud to be able to commit to extend throughout 2025 . the Chancellor and I visit the programme together on Sunday ; we meet Colonel Boardman , the commander of Operation Interflex , and the officer and soldier of 3 scot , together with instructor from Kosovo , Australia and Sweden , illustrate the way the UK be lead a multinational effort to support ukrainian soldier . the hon . Gentleman be right and I suspect that there be unanimity in the House on concern about the development in Russia and the grow alliance with North Korea , and that it be unite in its determination to take the action require to respond and unite in recognise that we must do so alongside NATO and other G7 ally . the hon . Gentleman ask about the new loan fund available for Ukraine through the proceed of the interest on frozen russian asset . we expect those to be available and in Ukraine ' s hand from early in the new year , which will put the UK ahead of many other nation participate in the scheme . on the hon . Gentleman ' s final question , we remain totally committed to spend 2 . 5 % on defence . we must do this to meet the threat that this country face . the Prime Minister confirm the commitment to set out a clear path to 2 . 5 % in our first week in Government at the NATO summit in Washington . I gently say again to the hon . Gentleman that the last time this country spend 2 . 5 % on defence be in 2010 under a Labour Government , and that that level be never match in any of the 14 conservative year since . I call the Chair of the Select Committee on Defence . I welcome the announcement today of the UK ' s increase support for funding for Ukraine as part of the extraordinary revenue acceleration loan scheme . the Secretary of State speak about what be at stake for we all , but can he say more about what discussion he have with his counterpart at the NATO Defence Ministers meet about the need for they to substantially increase their support ? far to our Prime Minister ' s recent meeting with the US President , what update be there on the use of storm Shadow missile by Ukraine ? I welcome the new Chair of the Select Committee , who I believe now have a Committee to chair . I look forward to an invitation to give evidence and to discuss these issue with the Committee soon . at the NATO Defence Ministers meeting , there be unanimity among the 32 nation that the important commitment that NATO nation make in Washington , particularly to the $ 40 billion of extra support for Ukraine , must be deliver . there be a recognition , too , that pledge make must be pledge deliver . one of the Ukrainians ' strike concern be that just a third of the equipment and support pledge have so far be deliver , so there be a determination to step up not just what we can provide , but how quickly we can provide it . that be something that as a new Government we do from day one . on Storm Shadow , only Putin benefit from a discussion about this . there be no single weapon that have turn the tide of any war . whether it be artillery , ammunition , armoured vehicle or missile , the UK provide support to Ukraine to pursue its UN right to defend its territory and its people . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of his statement . liberal Democrats welcome the new measure announce today to use the profit of frozen asset for Ukraine . that £ 2 billion will be of immense value to our ukrainian ally as they seek to repel Putin ' s illegal invasion , not least follow the alarming news that 1 , 500 north korean troop be currently be train in Russia to fight in Ukraine , but we must go far , fast . Russia must not and can not succeed . some £ 22 billion in frozen asset remain lock up in our country . we urge the Government , as we have do for year , to seize those asset and repurpose they for Ukraine right away . will the Secretary of State commit to do so ? be he have conversation with our democratic partner to that effect ? with the US election fast approach , it be deeply worry that our commitment to our ukrainian ally be uncertain . a second trump presidency could have a devastating effect on the security of Europe and of Ukraine , so we urge the Government to seize these asset now so that we can support Ukraine come what may . we must lead with Europe on this . the EU country between they have close to € 20 billion - worth of frozen asset . will the Secretary of State consider convene an urgent summit with european counterpart to begin that process ? do he agree that if the US can not , Europe must ? in fairness to the Conservatives when they be in government , and to the hon . Lady ' s party before the election , we be all unite in the effort to get the interest draw down from the frozen russian asset put into ukrainian hand . the UK Government , before the last election and since , have be lead this work . these be practical step that we can take now . whatever declaratory position the hon . Lady want to adopt about seize russian asset , this be valuable additional funding that , from the new year , will be in the hand of the ukrainian Government to spend on , in the UK ' s case , the military aid that they need . that come in addition to all the other increase that we have put in place since the election . I hope that despite the hon . Lady ' s call for go very much far , she will recognise how significant this move be and recognise that the UK be among the first of the nation to move on this . I hope she will give this House her full support when we introduce the primary legislation that will seek the parliamentary spending authority to provide this financial assistance in pursuance of a bilateral agreement that we will strike with Ukraine over how to do it . when this Government say that our support for Ukraine be absolute , we mean it . my right hon . Friend refer to the recently sign defence export treaty between the UK and Ukraine , which will support Ukraine ' s defence industrial base while help to replenish our own stockpile . as far as he be able , will he update the House on the treaty ' s progress ? I be proud to sign that treaty , which mean that Ukraine can draw down the export credit cover and contract with UK company . it be also a framework that , like some other framework the UK have put in place , other nation and their company can use to deal with the difficulty that many face in contracting with Ukraine . the Ukrainians will use it for contracting and procure munition and ammunition . it will allow we to step up not just the provision but the production of essential military aid to Ukraine . I welcome the statement , but the BBC report that the money will be pay not in one go but in tranche over time . we have the Budget next week . will the Secretary of State assure we that , give that the money be what accountant would call an " exceptional item " , it will in no way be include in the overall defence budget next week , or attempt to bolster or bump that up ? there be rumour of cut , so will the right hon . Gentleman assure we that the money be a one - off that will be treat completely differently in the Red Book ? I can give the right hon . Gentleman that assurance . the money be a one - off . it be additional and separate , and it will be account for and set out separately in the Treasury documentation . its significance be that it be a loan to Ukraine that Ukraine will not have to pay back , because it will be service by the interest on the frozen Russians asset . he ask whether the sum will be pay all in one go . it will be make available soon in the new year , and the Ukrainians will be able to draw it down as they need it for the purpose that they determine . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s comment about North Korea and the grow alliance of aggression that need to be confront . I hope that we will have a strong response to that . I also welcome the extra £ 2 . 26 billion . my right hon . Friend make the important point — one of many — that the Ukrainians be be outgunne three to one in artillery by the Russians . although the additional support be vital , how quickly can we ensure that we get extra munition , artillery and missile from the alliance and the G7 to Ukraine ? we can get that into the hand of Ukrainians as soon as it be available for that purpose . I announce the new contract to produce short - range air defence missile , the LMMs — lightweight multirole missile — in the UK . the initial contract be for 650 and they will be in the hand of Ukrainians from the beginning of next year . we hope to step that up during the course of 2025 . where other nation be ready to make available the weaponry that Ukrainians need , the establish arrangement for get it into the hand of Ukrainians be in place . it be a question not of how , but of how quickly . the delicious irony of the interest on Kremlin kleptocrat ' ill - get gain be use to fund the resistance against russian aggression will not be lose on member across the House . I welcome what the Defence Secretary have say in its entirety . he will know well than any of we the crucial importance of the NATO alliance machinery in assist ukrainian resistance . give that one recent former american President and one current french President have both make disobliging remark about the NATO alliance in the fairly recent past , will the Secretary of State reassure we that at least President Macron be now fully on board with the alliance and France ' s important contribution to it ? I will indeed . at no point during the two day of NATO Defence Ministers ' talk be there any indication of the sort of view that the right hon . Gentleman suggest that some in America may hold , or that President Macron might have previously express . indeed , in the good bilateral meeting that I have with the french Minister for the Armed Forces , S é bastien Lecornu , it be clear that the french commitment to support Ukraine be as strong as the UK ' s . I be glad to say that the determination of the French to work more closely with we on security and defence be equally strong . I welcome the statement and the announcement of further funding . to ensure that we sustain the pace with which we be provide aid to Ukraine , and that we energise our own logistical enterprise , what action be my right hon . friend take to boost UK defence industrial production to support the ukrainian armed force and defence supply chain throughout the UK ? my hon . friend know this territory as well as anybody else in the House . he will know that over the 973 day the UK Government have change fundamentally the way in which we go about procure what be require . british industry have respond magnificently to that . it have be able to respond more quickly , innovate more rapidly and devise what it can produce to meet the need that Ukraine say it have on the frontline . the UK Government ' s task be to be the middle man to ensure that that can happen at great volume and speed . we will continue to do that . do the Government think that Ukraine be win or lose ? I be not sure whether the hon . Gentleman be listen to my statement , but I make it clear that this be a critical period in the conflict . Ukraine be under huge pressure , especially on the eastern front , but it be fight , conduct a counter - offensive and put Putin under pressure . the only conclusion that the 32 nation draw from the discussion in Brussels , confirm by the G7 nation in Naples , be that now be the moment when Ukraine ' s ally must step up our support , put Ukraine in the strong possible position to withstand the russian onslaught and put pressure on Putin — a military , economic and diplomatic response . I welcome the statement , which be good news for Ukraine . do my right hon . friend agree that Ukraine be the frontier of war with the Kremlin , that international support be now more critical than ever and that we must be absolutely clear that defence of the UK begin in Ukraine ? my hon . friend be right . her very word be speak by several Defence Ministers in Brussels . defence of the UK and of Europe start in Ukraine . Ukraine be fight for the same value and for the rest of we in Europe . in sharp contrast to the presence of the United Nations Secretary - General at Putin ' s summit in Russia , which send out all the wrong signal , this statement be hugely welcome , so I thank the Secretary of State . far to the question that the Chairman of the Defence Committee ask , be it not now time that not only storm Shadow but all the mat é riel supply to Ukraine by the western alliance should be use by Ukraine in the manner that it see fit ? we provide Ukraine with the weaponry and support to defend its country , freedom and people . there be a consistency in that and there be no bar to Ukraine strike russian military target , so long as that be consistent with international humanitarian law and part of the proper defence of the country . I speak about the long - range drone and the successful attack they have be make — defensive attack , but nevertheless on military target in Russia . it be for the Ukrainians to determine how good to defend their country , and we will support they in whatever way we can . I warmly welcome the £ 2 . 26 billion of aid announce today . it be great news for those fighting for democracy in Europe and a day of low morale in the Kremlin — it be fantastic . the Ukrainians might well use some of the money to continue to innovate at pace . every few week they create new cutting - edge and adaptive technology to use in the fight against Putin . will we learn from our friend in Ukraine and ensure that we , as a country , invest in our own small and medium - sized defence enterprise , so that we can have the same output in the future ? while there have be no change in the basis on which we provide military aid to Ukraine , there be a change in the approach we take not just to provide aid but to produce some of the military equipment and ammunition . our challenge now be to take the lesson of what we have demonstrate can be do to support Ukraine to equip our own force well to fight in the future . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement , its content and for advance sight of it . the additional funding for Ukraine be very welcome , but it be what mat é riel they turn the funding into that will have the effect on the battlefield that we wish to see . with the shell production of european partner still well short of a million unit per year , will the Secretary of State indicate how UK shell production have grow , either in numeric or percentage term ? if he can not share that with the House , will he give we an assurance that it be increase ? I can absolutely assure the hon . member that it be increase . I have already speak about the production of short - range air defence missile — the LMMs — which be increase to meet what the Ukrainians need . the Ukrainians be clear that air defence system and long - range drone be the thing that matter most to their defence and to their ability to put Russia properly under pressure . I warmly welcome today ' s announcement of an additional £ 2 . 2 billion in financial support for Ukraine , generate by frozen russian asset . will my right hon . friend say a little more about the concern development of north korean soldier support Russia ' s war of aggression on european soil , and how that underline the importance of we use every tool in our box to support Ukraine ' s effort ? I regret to say to my hon . friend that I be not in a position to give the House any more detail about that . suffice it to say , we be watch and monitor this extremely closely . we and the House have detect a grow co - operation between North Korea and Russia , and between Iran and Russia , at least over the past 12 month . it be a sign not of strength but weakness on Putin ' s part , but it introduce a dangerous new development , both for Ukraine and for wide european security . I welcome the Defence Secretary ' s recognition of President Zelensky ' s victory plan and his support for that , but he will know that part of that plan be the use of long - range missile . I get his point about long - range UK drone be use only for military target in Russia , and within the norm of international rule of law , but I detect , perhaps , from his answer to two question on long - range missile that he be edge towards a position where he might publicly declare that Ukraine can have the freedom to hit military target in Russia use long - range missile . that will change the war and have an impact . we have step up the support we provide to Ukraine , but there have be no change in the basis on which we provide that support to Ukraine . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement and his clear personal commitment . it be very expensive for Putin to fight this war , but he be get a lot of money from the sale of oil . there be real concern that british firm , or firm with british connection , be facilitate and enable the illegal oil trade . what more can be do , in co - operation with the Foreign Secretary , to ensure that sanction be more effective against the russian oil trade ? my hon . friend be right . it be not just that we can confirm today that we be make the additional loan money available to the Ukrainians ; it be also important to remember that the sanction themselves be responsible for freeze at least $ 400 billion that Russia would otherwise be able to use to feed its war machine . the UK Government and other have take step on the shadow fleet — the shipping in the grey zone , try to avoid sanction — but wherever we have the evidence require to act and sanction , we will do that and we will continue to do that . not only be a full battalion of north korean soldier set to be deploy to assist Russia in Ukraine , but Putin be benefit from component and weapon provide by the Iranians and the Chinese . this all represent an unprecedented conflation of threat to global security . I echo the question ask by hon . friend the shadow Defence Secretary : the commitment to invest 2 . 5 % of GDP be right , but when will that be back up with action ? the right hon . Lady be right . we totally condemn North Korea ' s involvement and support for Russia , from arm transfer to any further development . as I say in my statement , that be in breach of multiple UN resolution and we continue to watch the situation . will the Secretary of State join I in pay tribute to the UK armed force who be provide vital support to our ukrainian ally , and to the ukrainian armed force who be fight valiantly against Putin ' s unlawful invasion of Ukraine ? I will indeed . I have have the privilege of visit Interflex training course four time now , I think . I visit the second ever course at Salisbury plain . it be deeply move to see the level of commitment of british force to the task of train the Ukrainians , and to spend time with those ukrainian recruit . they be lorry driver , bank clerk , pr executive of all age , who have volunteer to fight for their country and their freedom . they be train by british force , now with those from other country alongside they , who be equip they to be able to fight for their country . know that they will soon return to the frontline in their own nation be deeply sobering . I very much welcome this £ 2 . 26 billion , but have the Defence Secretary have the opportunity to study the National Audit Office report publish last month into the impact of our operation in Ukraine , particularly Operation Interflex , on the availability of the defence estate for the training of unit of the british Army ? while that be acceptable in the short term , in the long term it probably be not . what impact assessment have he carry out , and what proposal do he have to make available the defence estate we need to train british soldier ? nothing will shake our commitment to continue the Interflex training programme . we be determined and we will continue that throughout 2025 . many of the partner country that have be alongside we this year have already commit to do that again next year . the right hon . Member ask I about Interflex , the defence estate and the training of ukrainian soldier . that will continue . on the National Audit Office report , I have indeed read that report . it be a welcome change from the normal run of National Audit Office report into the Ministry of Defence that we have be use to in recent year . it praise a good deal of what have be do by the Ministry of Defence in support of Ukraine , and it be very welcome . I thank the Secretary of State for his very welcome statement . he mention the importance of the ukrainian force ' effort in the Black sea against the Russian Black Sea Fleet and how important that be to the ukrainian economy . could he go a little far and describe how this funding for Ukraine will help to ensure that security and perhaps go even far in the Black Sea ? the principle behind this funding be that we put it in the hand of the Ukrainians . the Ukrainians be in the good position — and must be in the position — to decide how good to use it . we have say that they can use it entirely on military support if they choose to do so ; the support that they choose to procure with it will be a matter for they , in discussion with we . be the Defence Secretary able to share with we any conversation that the Foreign Secretary have while in China about China ' s engagement in this situation , and particularly its willingness to bring to bear the influence that it undoubtedly have on both Russia and North Korea ? happily , I can indeed . the Foreign Secretary be in China on 18 and 19 October . he meet his counterpart , the Foreign Minister , and talk about the area on which our country may disagree , include on Russia ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine . he also raise the UK ' s concern over China ' s supply of equipment to Russia and to Russia ' s military industrial complex . I , too , very much welcome today ' s statement from my right hon . friend the Secretary of State . it provide evidence not just of warm word , but of real practical support for our ally in its desperate hour of need . but this country can not do this on its own . can he update the House on any discussion that he or his ministerial colleague have have with our friend in the rest of the G7 on combat Putin through economic measure ? I can indeed do so . I come away from the G7 meeting in Naples and from the meeting of NATO Defence Ministers in Brussels reinforce in my view that there be a determination not just to stand with Ukraine now , but to do so for as long as it take . I will send my hon . friend a copy of the communiqu é from both meeting . I think he will be encourage , as I be , by the degree of unanimity and determination not to allow Putin to believe that , if he hold out , the west will give up . I welcome the announcement of the acceleration loan scheme . I also welcome the timing ; the british Government be not simply wait to see the outcome of the US presidential election , as some other government be do . will the Defence Secretary repeat the assurance he give in the House last week that , regardless of US policy , military aid to Ukraine from european NATO nation will not decrease next year ? we be determined , on the contrary , to maintain and step up the military aid require from the UK . I find a similar determination from Defence Ministers across the NATO nation . we recognise that the Ukrainians be not only mount this fight for themselves , but wage it on behalf of we all and the value that we share with they . I thank the Secretary of State for this additional £ 2 . 26 billion for Ukraine , which will find a strong echo from the hundred and thousand of individual across this country who have open their door to ukrainian refugee , and in many charity and organisation such as Jeeps for Peace in Scotland , which send direct aid by take pick - up across Europe to the frontline . do this money and the individual support from Britain not show that we will stand with Ukraine for as long as it take ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his thank , but those thank should really go to the Chancellor , because the Treasury have lead the work on ensure that we can put in place this new system of loan and make this additional money available to Ukraine . he be completely right to say that part of the strength of the support that we can offer as a country to Ukraine rest on the strength of the support of the british people — the warmth they have show from the outset for ukrainian refugee and the determination of many group , such as the one he cite , which have be willing to collect and , in some case , transport support for Ukraine and its people out to the country itself . I pay tribute to their effort . it be concern that we have receive only the brief of update in this House on the direct involvement of north korean troop , after one week of it be widely report in the medium . last week , during Defence question , the right hon . Gentleman give his full - throate support for Ukraine but make no mention of the Government ' s awareness of the potential deployment of north korean reinforcement up to brigade strength . what be the Government ' s current assessment of the scope of north korean involvement , and how do overt north korean boot on the ground in Ukraine necessitate a change in our posture ? I have just give the House the assessment of the involvement and the extent , at present , of the involvement of north korean troop . give the potential of north korean boot on the ground join iranian drone in the air above Ukraine , it seem clear that the calculus that Russia be operate to be very different from that of the western alliance . do the Secretary of State agree that there be a risk that , when the fear of escalation be one - sided , that itself become escalatory ? therefore , while welcome the additional support that he have announce today , I wonder whether he will join I in say that it be time for other country to follow the lead that the UK have show today . wherever there be sign of the breaching of UN resolution and sanction or of a dangerous escalation in support of Russia , we will act . we have act before . my hon . friend be right to point to the grow alliance between Russia and Iran and between Russia and North Korea . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement and , indeed , for his very welcome news . everybody in this House be incredibly pleased with the Government ' s decision today . as the US election draw close and uncertainty grow over the level of support that will come from the US after that election , do the Secretary of State agree that Ministers or Members of this House must exercise caution when express an opinion on that presidential race ? I ask that with great respect . will he take the opportunity to reaffirm the strong and resilient view of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland that we should stand against russian aggression and support those who need our help through aid , weaponry and diplomacy ? the hon . Gentleman be right : the US election be for the US people . as a UK Government and a UK Parliament , we will deal with whoever the american people choose to elect as their president . I be glad that he welcome the support that the Government have step for up Ukraine . I say to he and to the House — I think the shadow Defence Secretary will recognise this — that it make the job of the UK Government so much easy when there be such united support in this House for what we must do to support Ukraine for as long as it take . I warmly welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement . I would not expect he to comment on the US presidential election , but naturally there be a nervousness about the policy of a future US Government , which make what european partner and ally do even more important . there be a huge disparity in the aid be provide by different partner across Europe . Denmark have be phenomenal in provide 1 . 86 % of gdp — or more than € 6 billion — and other country such as Spain have not provide so much . can he assure we that there be robust discussion in private among his Defence Minister colleague in Brussels ? yes , I can . there be discussion , which be about the level of commitment we must make collectively to Ukraine and the level of commitment we must make collectively to NATO . I welcome the fact that this year 23 of the 32 NATO nation will meet that 2 % of GDP threshold . it be a bare minimum — there be more that we need to do , particularly as european nation in NATO , in the year ahead . I warmly thank the Secretary of State and the full ministerial team for their hard work mobilise the additional money from frozen russian sovereign asset . I hope that other country will follow UK leadership on this . in mobilise every tool across the Government , and with winter approach , may I ask the Secretary of State to continue the push to realise the asset from the sale of Chelsea football club — the £ 2 . 5 billion from Roman Abramovich that could go towards humanitarian need , which be also increasingly urgent in Ukraine ? the Government understand the case that my hon . friend make . the Minister of State , my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , meet he last night to discuss this far . on a visit to Kiev with parliamentary colleague last month , I see at first hand the incredible bravery of the ukrainian people , who will welcome this statement . unfortunately , Russia ' s war machine continue to be power by western - make semiconductor that be smuggle into the country . may I ask the Secretary of State what work the Government be do to make sure that Russia do not get access to that technology ? one of the Government ' s great asset be my hon . friend the Minister of State because of the work that he do with many other country . whenever discussion be require or evidence be gather he speak to many of the country that may find that they have within they company that might be involve in those supply chain . wherever that happen , my hon . friend be on it , and he be lead the charge to ensure that where we can identify those supply chain , we take the action that be necessary to close they down . I thank the Secretary of State for his very welcome statement . as we approach 1 , 000 day since Russia ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine , it be increasingly clear that Ukraine ' s survival depend on the west increase its manufacture of munition . can my right hon . friend say a little more about boost our defence industrial supply chain , include in the west midland , where defence manufacturer be keen to contribute ? my hon . friend be right . the importance of the british defence industry be not just in the great security that it give we as a nation but as part of the economic boost that will drive growth in future . one feature I be pleased to see at the recent Government investment summit be the confirmation that defence would be one of the eight economic growth sector that would receive priority policy focus and support as we develop that for the future . that be in the interest of Ukraine immediately , and it be in our own interest in future . it be how we can combine both the strengthening of our national security and the boost to our national economy . Sentencing Review and Prison Capacity with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to make a statement on how the Government will address the crisis in our prison , not just today , but for year to come . the House have hear I recount my inheritance as Lord Chancellor before . the crisis in our prison be , I believe , the great disgrace of the last Conservative Government . they leave our prison on the point of collapse — a situation that would have force we to close the prison door , cancel all trial and force the police to halt arrest . crime would have go unpunished , victim would never have see justice do , and we would have witness the total breakdown of law and order . the previous Prime Minister know he have to act . his Lord Chancellor beg he to do so , but instead he call an election . as I announce to the House on 18 July , we have no choice but to bring forward the release point for some prisoner . some of those serve standard determinate sentence have see the custodial element reduce from 50 % to 40 % , spend the rest of their sentence on licence . they can be recall to prison should probation staff judge that necessary to protect the public . as we see over the summer of disorder , these release could not come soon enough . after the August bank holiday , we be leave with few than 100 space in our man ' s prison . the system be only hold together by the heroic work and considerable good will of our prison and probation staff . we be , on many occasion , just one bad day from disaster . today , the second tranche of emergency release take place , create desperately need space in our prison , but that be not the long - term solution . I will now set out the long - term plan for our prison , which will ensure that never again be a Lord Chancellor place in the invidious position that I be on take office . this must begin by build more prison . for all their rhetoric , the last Conservative Government ' s record on prison building be abject . they like to mention that , between 2010 and 2024 , they build 13 , 000 place . what they be less keen to admit be that , in the same time , they close 12 , 500 . in 14 year , they add just 500 place to our prison capacity . in our first 100 day , this Government be already close to match that . the previous Government promise to build 20 , 000 new place by the mid - 2020s , but by the time they leave office , they have build only 6 , 000 . they be simply too terrified of their own Back Benchers , who support prison building vociferously , as long as those prison be not build anywhere near they . this government will build the prison that the last Conservative Government promise but fail to deliver . in seek a lasting solution to our prison crisis , we must be honest , in a way that my predecessor be not . we can not build our way out of this problem . every year , our prison population grow by around 4 , 500 prisoner . this be a question of simple mathematic . to build enough prison to meet this demand we would have to build the equivalent of HMP Birmingham — which be in my constituency of Birmingham Ladywood — four and a half time over , every single year . to put that in context , in the past 10 year , the last Conservative Government build just three prison . while we will speed up prison building and build as fast as we can , that pace be simply impossible . for that reason , if we be to address our prison crisis , we must be smart about who receive a prison sentence . let I be clear : there will always be a place for prison , and there will always be offender who must be lock up , but we must expand the range of punishment we use outside prison and consider how we punish those offender who have break our rule but be not a danger to society . for that reason , today I be launch a review of sentencing . it will have one clear goal : to ensure that we be never again in a position where we have more prisoner than we have space in our prison . the review will follow three principle . first , sentence must punish offender and protect the public . for dangerous offender , prison will always remain the answer . punishment and public protection will be the Government ' s first priority . there be some offender whom I will task the review with consider , such as prolific offender , who account for just one in every 10 individual , but nearly half of all sentence . some of they be hyper - prolific offender , commit hundred of crime . I will ask the reviewer to consider whether a long sentence might punish they well and force they to engage with rehabilitation on the inside . the second , related , principle of the review be that sentence must encourage offender to turn their back on crime — we need both stick and carrot . I will be encourage the reviewer to learn from other who have succeed . in Texas , for instance , republican legislator face a problem similar to our : a soar prison population ; sky - high reoffende rate ; and prison that have run out of space . work across political divide , the Texans introduce a system of good behaviour credit , where well - behave prisoner could earn time off their sentence by engage in rehabilitation programme . the result be remarkable . crime fall by nearly a third , reach the low level in half a century . the prison population fall by over 20 , 000 , and after two decade , the Texans have close 16 prison rather than build new one . the third principle of the review be that it must expand the punishment that offender receive outside of prison . there be already way that we severely constrain offender , limit their freedom outside of prison . those under home detention curfew be , in practice , under a form of house arrest . with a tag on their ankle and a sensor in their home , they be place under curfew , generally for 12 hour each day . should they break that curfew , they can be pick up and , if need be , lock up . in some way , punishment outside of prison can be even more restrictive than prison . it be a sad fact that in many of our prison today , a drinker can all too easily procure a drink . on a sobriety tag , however , with their sweat measure every 30 minute and a 97 % compliance rate , their teetotalism be almost as strict as mine . all of that be just use the technology that be immediately available to we , and use already in this country . I will be invite the reviewer to consider the technology they have available to they now , and the next frontier of technology , use in other country but not yet in our . I believe that the modern world present we with the opportunity to build a prison outside of prison , where the eye of the state follow a prisoner more closely than any prison officer can . move punishment out of prison for those who can be safely manage there have huge benefit . outside of prison , offender can engage in work that pay back the community and individual whom they have harm . the evidence be abundantly clear that those who serve their sentence outside prison be far less likely to reoffend . that cut crime , with few victim and safe street , and reduce the huge cost to society of reoffende , most recently value at over £ 22 billion a year . this government believe that crime must have consequence and criminal must be punish . we also believe in rehabilitation — that those who earn the right must be encourage to turn their back on crime . this government believe in prison , but we must increase the use of punishment outside of prison too . the sentencing review will be task with pursue those goal . I be pleased to say that the review will be lead by a former Lord Chancellor , David Gauke , a highly regard Minister who serve in multiple role across Government . he have rightly gain the respect of both the judiciary and the legal sector , as well as many within this House . I will work with he to assemble a panel of reviewer who will draw together deep expertise and experience in the criminal justice system . the review will take a bipartisan and evidence - base look at an issue that have for far too long be a political football , boot around by both side . David Gauke will report back with his recommendation in the spring , and I have place a copy of the complete term of reference of the review in the Library of the House . it be right that the review be give time to do its work . as I have note already , however , the capacity crisis in our prison have not go away . when we introduce emergency measure we believe that they have buy we about a year , but after the summer of disorder , the next crisis could be just nine month away . for that reason , I announce last week an extension of the sentencing power of magistrate court , which allow we to bear down on the remand population in our prison . but we must go far . while I will not countenance any further emergency release of prisoner , there be operational measure that I will lay before the House in the month ahead . the first , which I have already reference , be home detention curfew . this modern form of house arrest curtail freedom and help offender turn their life around . offender be subject to electronically monitor curfew , which must be impose for nine hour a day , be generally 12 hour long , and can extend to 16 hour . as the shadow Lord Chancellor note in the House in February , the reoffende rate for the average prisoner , which be measure a few year ago , be close to 50 % , but for offender release on a home detention curfew , it be 23 % . this government will soon extend the use of that measure , follow in the footstep of the previous Administration , who rightly expand its use on a number of occasion . we will increase the maximum period that eligible offender can spend under house arrest from six month to 12 month . the second measure that we will introduce will address the soar recall population , which have double from 6 , 000 to 12 , 000 in just six year . risk assess recall review be a power of the Secretary of State to re - release , on licence , those who pose a low risk to the public , avoid the long wait they often face for a Parole Board hearing . in the past , the measure be use often : it be use between 1 , 000 and 1 , 500 time each year between 2017 and 2019 ; but its use have fall in recent year , reach as low as 92 time in 2022 . later this month , I intend to review the risk assess recall review process , so that low - risk case can be consider for re - release after they have be recall to prison for two to three month , and where their further detention be no long necessary to protect the public . I should note that this will only change the case that can be consider for release , with the final decision still in the hand of experienced probation officer and manager . the final area where I intend to make progress be in the case of foreign national offender . I share the public ' s view that , with 10 , 000 in our prison , there be far too many foreign offender in this country , cost £ 50 , 000 each a year to house at his Majesty ' s pleasure . it happen to be my personal view that deportation be as good a punishment as imprisonment , if not well . we be currently on track to remove more foreign national offender this year than at any time in recent year . but I will now be work with my colleague across Government to explore the way that we can accelerate that far , include work with the Home Office to make the early removal scheme for foreign offender more effective . when I walk into the Ministry of Justice for the first time as Lord Chancellor just over three month ago , I encounter a prison system on the brink of collapse . it be the result of the inaction of the last Government , who think they could dither and delay , and lead we to the precipice of disaster . but their failure be long in the making : they fail to build the prison place this country need , and they fail to address the challenge of an ever - rise prison population . in July , this Government take action to avert immediate disaster , but the plan that I have set out today do more than that . it will ensure that this Government and our successor be never force to rely on the emergency release of prisoner again — a measure over which I have no choice , one that I take despite my personal belief , and one that must never happen again . I commend this statement to the House . as always , I be grateful to the Lord Chancellor for early sight of her statement , and for she come to the House to deliver it , give we the opportunity to ask question . she be always unfailingly courteous in her dealing with this House . the Lord Chancellor make several announcement today . it be important that we see the detail of her sentencing review , and that , whatever the outcome , it ensure that victim ' voice be hear throughout , that the bad offender — for example , violent or sexual offender — stay behind bar for long , and that , as she allude to , prolific offender who cause so much blight and harm can still be subject to a custodial sentence where appropriate . we see an overall fall in reoffende since 2010 under the last government , from around 31 % to just over 25 % , but there be of course still more to do . it be right that we look at all sentence , include tough community sentence , through the prism of what reduce reoffende , boost rehabilitation and good protect the public . with that in mind , I know David Gauke well ; he be my first boss as a Minister . he be a decent , honourable , able and thoughtful man , and I regard he as a friend , so I will not prejudge what he will conclude in his review . but the opposition will rightly , as the Lord Chancellor would expect , scrutinise the review when it be publish , and hold the Government to account on the choice they make on how to proceed subsequently . I hope the review ' s term of reference might include not just male prisoner , but female prisoner and female offender , build on the female offender strategy that David Gauke and I put in place many year ago . as the Lord Chancellor have set out , prison capacity have be under significant pressure for some time , and while the situation be incredibly acute in 2008 , 2009 and 2010 , it remain a significant challenge . that be due to an increase average sentence length for first offender — for which we make no apology — match by the big prison - build programme since the victorian era , with thousand of additional place build while tackle the legacy of the crumble prison estate we inherit in 2010 and the Labour party ' s absolute failure to build the 7 , 500 Titan prison place it promise while in government . of course , though , the impact on the remand population of the decision to not mass release during the pandemic and to rightly retain jury trial , compound by the Bar strike , undoubtedly significantly increase pressure despite our prison - build programme . the Lord Chancellor have set out her choose approach , with more convict criminal release today at the 40 % point of their sentence , rather than the 50 % point in tranche 2 of SDS40 . we be see significant level of concern from victim of crime about that approach — Sky News run a powerful package this morning highlight that concern — so I have several important question on that aspect of the Lord Chancellor ' s announcement . she say that she will publish datum on SDS40 in the come week in the normal run of statistic . I understand that , but we would be grateful if she could provide the date on which those statistic will be publish . in the medium this morning , she allude to the rate of recall be " very high " but dispute — base on her internal datum — that it be as high as 50 % , as be suggest on Radio 4 . can she expand on what that rate look like ? in response to a write question from I , the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , the hon . member for Scunthorpe ( Sir Nicholas Dakin ) acknowledge that hotel be now be use in some case to accommodate release prisoner under SDS40 . in the light of the Lord Chancellor ' s commitment at oral question last month to be transparent about this matter — although it take a write question from I to get that confirmation — how many hotel room or place be be use , and at what cost ? we have hear little thus far about deport fno , so I be pleased that she have focus on that issue in her remark , but when will she set out more detail of her plan to improve the deportation rate of fno , and what target be she set for that ? do the Lord Chancellor now acknowledge that — as we point out at the time , and as victim also point out — although the Government claim that domestic abuse and domestic violence offence would be exclude from SDS40 , that be simply not the case ? da offender commit actual bodily harm or grievous bodily harm be not exclude . will she revisit the exclusion list to review this matter ? will she also commit to build more prison , over and above the six new prison that we fund and have already be complete or be be build , and will she commit to funding that additional prison building ? home detention curfew will far reduce the time that convict criminal spend behind bar . someone with a four - year sentence who be not exclude from SDS40 would now be out at around 19 month ; with the possibility of 12 - month HDC , that could mean that they be only inside for just over six month of a four - year sentence . I recognise that the interaction between different scheme and calculation be complex and may be different in individual case , but can the Lord Chancellor reassure the House that a fix minimum percentage will always be serve by those sentence to prison ? the Lord Chancellor will appreciate that with layer upon layer of reduction , some people will struggle to see that punishment or public protection be at the fore , so can she clarify a number of further point ? while most da offence would be presume ineligible for HDC , that presumption be not absolute , and again , many common da offence such as ABH or common assault be not presume ineligible . what will the Lord Chancellor do to address that issue ? do she intend to examine the list of exclusion for both scheme — SDS40 and HDC — and come back to the House with a tough list ? Tagging be a vital part of HDC , but while there may be the tag , as she have mention , it appear that the ability to fit they swiftly be sadly lack at present . what reassurance can the Lord Chancellor give that there be now no backlog at all in tagging ? what step be she take to ensure that victim be contact when perpetrator be release , and what additional resource be go into victim support service and probation , over and above what we have already commit to ? turn to the rehabilitation activity requirement , it be right that experienced staff judge these case . as the Lord Chancellor know , the small number reflect both risk assessment and the complex interaction of RAR with other release scheme . I therefore fear that the bounty she might expect to get from the change she intend to make will be limit . will she confirm detail of those propose change for the House in due course ? finally , and most importantly , as I press the Lord Chancellor on last week , it be vital that the criminal justice system be not subject to a flat budget or , bad , cut in next week ' s Budget — cut that would let down victim , those who work in the system , and the public . I fully appreciate that she will not be able to prejudge that Budget , either at the Dispatch Box or in the medium , but a fair financial settlement , alongside her set out her long - term plan for the system — a little of which I acknowledge we have see today — will be absolutely essential if victim and the public be to have confidence in her Government on law and order . I thank the shadow Lord Chancellor for the courteous way in which he have approach this debate , and for his detailed question . let I start with his point in relation to the sentencing review . the voice of victim will be hear : there will be a representative with experience of work with victim to make sure that be cover in the review , and I look forward to announce further member of that review panel over the come day . the review will be free to consider every aspect of the sentencing framework , include the use of whole - life order and minimum sentence . we have not constrain the sentencing review in any way : the review panel should take a proper look at the sentencing framework that we have and go where the evidence take they . I acknowledge the progress that be make on reduce reoffende , but as the shadow Lord Chancellor accept , there be much more to do . we know that 80 % of offender be reoffender and that 90 % of those sentence to custody be reoffender . we have a big problem with that revolving door in and out of our prison — as a country , that be a significant challenge that we must overcome . as I say , I will be place the term of reference in the House of Commons Library . the shadow Lord Chancellor will be pleased to see that those term of reference refer to cohort of offender , include female offender . he will also know that in my conference speech in September , I lay out a different approach to how this Government deal with woman in our prison . I follow it closely . I know that the shadow Lord Chancellor follow it closely . I be set up a woman ' s justice board , which will report with a strategy in the spring . we need to do more with female offender , especially give the impact that the incarceration of woman and the breaking up of family home have on their child , particularly as two third of woman in prison be there for non - violent offence . I hope there be cross - party consensus in this House on deal with woman offender differently . on prison capacity , I say gently to the shadow Lord Chancellor that we can trade number across this Dispatch Box about thing that the last Labour Government do before 2010 , or he might want to acknowledge the failure that take place over his government ' s 14 year in power . he know that only 500 net prison place be add by his Government over those 14 year , and that the crisis that face I when I walk into the Department be acute — he know that , because he have walk out of that same Department only a few day before . the previous Government run our prison boil hot for far too long , so my inheritance when I take over be dire , leave I with no option other than the emergency release of prisoner . I note the shadow Lord Chancellor ' s point about domestic abuse and domestic violence case , but I remind he that his own early release scheme that his Government implement for many month before the last general election — the so - call end of custody supervise licence scheme — contain none of the SDS40 exclusion . he know that ; he also know that we pull every lever available to we within the law to exclude the offence that be most closely connect to domestic abuse and domestic violence . as a matter of law , it be only possible to exclude offence type , rather than offender . I have have to pull that emergency lever ; I have seek to do so in the safe way possible , to make as many exclusion as possible , and to give the Probation Service the time it need to prepare for this measure and to make sure victim be notify under victim notification scheme in the usual way . I will be publish the datum in relation to tranche 1 and 2 release in two ad hoc statistical release before Christmas , so that datum will be in the public domain . as the shadow Lord Chancellor will know from his time in the Department , the recall rate usually hover between 6 % and 10 % — it can vary quite a bit between those number . our current information be that the SDS40 release be not show a high recall rate than we would expect compare with normal release , but those statistic will of course be publish in the usual way in due course . on hotel , I make provision to allow the emergency use of hotel accommodation for prisoner release under the SDS40 scheme to prevent any homelessness that might lead to high rate of recall . few than 20 prisoner have be house in hotel , and at a very low cost . this be a temporary measure , and I do not anticipate that it will be use any more extensively than it have be already . on foreign national offender , I will return to this House on that matter , but work be under way across Government and I be work closely with my colleague in the Home Office . I will be publish for the House , and will return to the House with , the detail of the further measure on the home detention curfew . the shadow Lord Chancellor rightly say that not everybody be automatically eligible for a home detention curfew . there be still a risk assessment , and safeguard concern be the no . 1 way in which domestic abuse issue show up as a red flag for a particular prisoner . I would not imagine that those previous and current arrangement will change very much with the measure we will take . I thank the shadow Lord Chancellor for the contract conclude with Serco to deliver the tagging . it may not have be he directly and personally , but it be his Government . the performance of Serco have be unacceptable . let I be very clear with the House : there be no shortage of tag in this country . it have fail to make sure that it have enough staff in place to tag everybody who need a tag . its progress have be monitor daily by I , my Ministers and official in the Department , and we will continue to hold its foot to the fire . we will levy financial penalty , and all option remain on the table . performance have improve a little — it have make progress — but all option be on the table if that fall back in any way . the shadow Lord Chancellor will know that I be not go to comment on anything relate to the Budget . the Chancellor will make her statement in due course . I gently remind he that the budget of the Ministry of Justice under the Tory party leave a lot to be desire . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . I welcome the approach the Lord Chancellor be take to the management of the prison system , and the appointment of David Gauke to head the sentencing review . give that the initiative she have announce today to relieve pressure on prison will create additional work for already overstretch probation officer , will she make a further statement when she have decide what operational change she be go to make to the Probation Service ? the additional 14 , 000 prison place she have promise to build will take prison capacity to above 100 , 000 . be that desirable in the long term ? give her intention to expand punishment outside prison , will she make it her aim in time to close some of the bad of our exist prison , build two or three century ago , which warehouse crime and , despite the good effort of prison staff , do little or nothing to reform or rehabilitate their inmate ? I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for his question . on probation , I recognise the very high workload that probation officer be work under . we commit in our manifesto to a strategic review of probation governance . I have make sure that we have bring forward the recruitment of an extra 1 , 000 probation officer by March next year . we be work closely with probation union and probation staff on the frontline to manage the situation . I be very conscious that we do not want to take the pressure out of the prison and just leave it with the Probation Service instead . this be a whole - system response , and the whole system need to be stabilise and able to face the pressure we see in it . on the prison population , make no mistake : the number of prison place will increase in this country . we will deliver the 14 , 000 the previous Government do not deliver , and the prison population will therefore rise . however , as I have say , we can not build our way out of this crisis , and we do have to do thing differently . we be a very long way away from any of the change the Chair of the Select Committee may want to see , but fundamentally we must make sure , and the review must make sure , that we never ever run out of prison place in this country again . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of her statement . have myself grow up in a home of domestic violence at the hand of my mum ' s former partner , I share the concern of the Victims ' Commissioner and survivor of domestic abuse that loophole in the early release scheme ' s criterion could mean that some of their abuser , who have be convict of violent offence but not of domestic violence - specific offence , may have be release early today . I know the Secretary of State attempt to provide some reassurance , but I can say to she that I have receive communication from affected people outside this Chamber who be not satisfied with those assurance yet . domestic abuse survivor deserve to be safe . can she address these concern today ? we welcome the Government ' s determination to fix the mess that the Conservatives make of our criminal justice system through the evidence - lead , independent sentencing review . the former Lord Chancellor chair it and I have a track record of fix thing together . in my past life , I use to run a social enterprise phone repair company staff by ex - offender , and we run pop - up repair shop in the MOJ , at one of which the then Lord Chancellor David Gauke eagerly present his phone for repair . I hope this Lord Chancellor share that collaborative fix spirit when it come to engage with the Liberal Democrats and I on this review — and I will happily sort the Secretary of State out with a phone repair if she need one . while empirical evidence will be critical to this review , some of the most valuable insight on this matter be hold by victim and survivor themselves . I be therefore disappointed not to find the word " victim " or " survivor " mention once anywhere in the term of reference , although I have hear the Secretary of State say they today . will she put that right , and outline specifically how victim and survivor will be represent and formally consult in the sentencing review ? finally , even though the Secretary of State have say there will be no constraint and no constriction , something else miss from the review be the injustice of indeterminate imprisonment for public protection sentence , under which almost 3 , 000 people remain imprison with no release date . what be more , people be serve IPP sentence who have commit less offence than those be release today under the Government ' s early release scheme . reform these sentence could help address prison overcrowding and the safety crisis , so why have the Government explicitly exclude IPP sentence from this review , and will she reconsider that decision ? I thank the liberal Democrat spokesperson for his question . I be sorry to hear about his personal experience , but they will of course inform the valuable contribution that he make in this House from his own live experience . as the hon . Gentleman know , there be not a specific offence of domestic abuse in our legislative framework . to bring in the emergency release scheme to prevent we from run out of prison space in July , I have pull every lever at my disposal . we can make these change in law only by exclude offence , not offender cohort or offender type . that be why the list of offence cover include those most closely connected to domestic abuse situation , but it be not of course fully comprehensive . it can not be , because we can exclude only offence , not offender type . I hope he will recognise that I pull these lever as early as possible in the Parliament — almost as soon as I walk into the Department — because I want to give the Probation Service time to prepare for this change . specifically , it be so that it could notify victim , work on proper release plan for these offender , make sure that the licence condition be the right one and make sure that the monitoring of these offender in the community be as strong as it need to be . the hon . Gentleman will also know that those who be flag as have a domestic violence background be prioritise for tag . every choice I have make in bring forward these emergency release change have be make to try to minimise the impact on victim . I really empathise with and be very affect by the concern of victim that those who have offend against they be be release some week or month early . that might sound small , but I know it have a huge impact , and I do not seek to minimise that in any way . as I say , I have pull every lever at my disposal to try to minimise those concern . on the sentencing review , when we reveal the whole panel we will ensure that victim ' voice be represent , as that be important . in the term of reference we have try to capture the fact that all of society suffer collectively when we do not get reoffende rate down . this be a strategy for cut crime and produce few victim in future , which I hope the hon . Gentleman will support . IPP sentence be specifically exclude . that be a challenging cohort of prisoner in our system , and where it be safe to do so I be determined to make progress on release those who be currently serve an IPP sentence . I work with the previous Government and support change to the licence term and condition bring in by the Conservative Administration . we be implement change that be make in the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 , which be enact just before the general election . what we can not do be release people who still pose a risk to the public , and with this cohort of offender I can not release those who be still a danger to themselves and to other . get that balance right be incredibly important , and I hope the hon . Gentleman will acknowledge that it be not appropriate to put that cohort of offender within the sentencing review . under the Conservative Government , more than one in two people who serve short - term custodial sentence go on to reoffend . in total , reoffende be cost our country £ 20 billion a year . that be not work at all , and not work for the taxpayer . in my constituency , and across Hertfordshire , fantastic charity such as the Hertfordshire Association for the Care and Rehabilitation of Offenders be run innovative and pioneer programme , and work with ex - offender to ensure that they do not offend again . will my right hon . friend say a little more about how the Government will adopt a new approach and work with charity and broad civil society to cut reoffende for good ? my hon . friend be right : reoffende have a huge cost for we all as a country because it create more victim of crime . indeed , it cost we more than £ 20 billion at about £ 22 billion a year . charity and other group have a huge role to play in help to bring down the reoffende rate , but to allow that work to succeed we must bring down overcrowding and the capacity crisis in our prison . I hope the sentencing review will help we to chart a new course when it come to bring down reoffende . I thank the Lord Chancellor for her statement . in the first wave of early release , 37 prisoner be wrongly release . what step be she take to ensure that those mistake be not repeat ? do she agree that the good way to reduce reoffending be to ensure that release prisoner be able to participate in the labour market , and what will she do to improve education and training within the prison system ? on the 37 who be wrongly release , I have never imagine that it would be possible for people to be charge and sentence under an old Act of Parliament , and not the more recent Sentencing Act 2020 , and as soon as that issue be bring to our attention we take immediate step . all 37 be ultimately return to custody , and I will ensure that that mistake can not happen again . the hon . Gentleman make a good point about reduce reoffende . access to literacy training and skill and the ability to get a job be important in help an offender turn their back on a life of crime , and I hope the sentencing review will make further positive suggestion on that . we know we have to tackle reoffende , and we know that job , housing and so on be part of the picture if we be to persuade people to become the well citizen that we need they to be , rather than the well criminal that our system currently produce . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s review of sentencing , but as she may know , people who be neurodivergent be hugely over - represent in the prison population . what step will she take to ensure that prisoner with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and autism do not reoffend ? my hon . friend be right to say that the support prisoner receive in prison must be tailor to take account of need such as neurodivergence and autism , much of which have go undiagnosed in the life of prisoner , and often do not even get diagnose within the prison estate . we must obviously turn that around , and I be confident we can make progress in that area . first we have to deal with the capacity crisis , because when prison be very overcrowded offender be lock up for 23 hour a day , and in that one remain hour little good work can be do . we must deal with the capacity problem so that we can then deal with the underlie issue that prisoner face before they can make the positive choice that we all want . the Secretary of State have identify a good set of principle for her review . on the Texan approach , do she think that it would be fair to victim if , rather than we look at extend early release far , we use the reward of the exist access to early release ? she talk a lot about evidence , but she will understand that it be hard to evidence victim ' feeling about justice , and that risk great weight be give to statistic on reoffende , and other information that the Ministry of Justice have to hand . how do she propose to close the gap in evidence relate to how victim and their family feel about sentencing ? the hon . Gentleman make good point . the Texan model be of interest because it seek to incentivise the positive behaviour that reduce reoffende and ultimately cut crime , and Texas see some pretty spectacular result . there be no exact read - across from that model to our system , and it will be for the review to consider that model and other around the world to see what approach might work here . it be imperative that any measure we take retain the confidence of victim and the wide public . any punishment that take place outside a prison need to still look and feel like proper punishment to every community in our country . that be non - negotiable . public confidence must be maintain , and that speak to the hon . Gentleman ' s second point . evidence be important , and in my experience , when victim be engage in the process , they appreciate the need to reduce reoffende , because they do not want other people to be victim . their voice will be hear in the review ; I hope that reassure he . in June 2019 , David Gauke make a speech as Lord Chancellor on smart sentencing . it be a helpful , coherent , cogent , evidence - base speech about sentencing reform . four conservative Prime Ministers later , no progress have be make , so I be pleased that the Labour Government will grasp the nettle . we be just discuss the Texan example of problem solve and sentencing , but can the Lord Chancellor reassure I that the review will also consider family , drug and alcohol court , and the progress and positive result that we have see in the family court ? my hon . friend make the case well for why David Gauke be the right person to lead this review . as I say , he bring deep expertise to this debate . I be sure that the sentencing review panel will be interested , as many be , in some of the pilot that be be run on problem - solve court , and also in the family court . what measure be the Lord Chancellor take to ensure that the review consider the impact of sentence police on different socioeconomic group , and address concern about disproportionate sentence for marginalised community and minority group ? the hon . member raise an important point . that issue be not within the review ' s term of reference . it will not consider disparity in sentencing because it be look at the overall sentencing framework , and how we ensure that we never run out of prison place again . there be an important debate on disparity in the criminal justice system . the review on sentencing be not the proper place for that , but we will take forward that other work in due course . I declare an interest : I be the honorary life president of the Prison Officers Association . I thank the Secretary of State on behalf of the POA for her open - door policy on engagement with the union . I congratulate she on bring forward the sentencing review . the POA have long argue that there be too many people in prison , in particular with mental health problem . they include veteran with post - traumatic stress disorder who should not be there , but should be treat elsewhere . will she ensure that the union be fully involve in decide on the composition of the panel and the engagement process for the review ? work closely with our trade union be important to we . we have already engage with the Prison Officers Association . let I place on record my thank to all who work in our prison and our probation system . in our prison in particular , the rate of violence against prison officer have be too high for too long . I salute the hard work that prison officer do in a difficult job on behalf of we all . my right hon . friend can be assure of our close engagement with everybody who work in his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service go forward . Parliament legislate for a maximum sentence of life imprisonment for cause death by dangerous driving , but judge be yet to impose such a sentence , despite such case as the one in my constituency in which three people be kill by a driver in a case with five aggravate factor . will the Lord Chancellor ensure that when the review consider long custodial sentence , it look at how victim can get justice , and how the maximum sentence legislate for by this place be apply ? the hon . Member will know that sentencing decision in individual case be a matter for the independent judiciary , who have to consider all the fact in front of they and sentence accordingly , base on the law , the sentencing guideline and the framework . I can not comment on the specific of the case he mention . the review will not be constrain in any way in its inquiry , or on maximum sentence , whole life order and so on . the whole range of sentence that be available be open for the review panel to consider and make recommendation on . I thank my right hon . friend for her handling of the issue and the approach she be take in response to the challenge she face . this morning , I meet local police leadership to discuss the challenge around drug - base criminality in Leyton and Wanstead . the situation they face could not be clear . after 14 year of Tory failure , overstretched police service , over - capacity prison and woefully underfunde probation service and council have lead to a vicious cycle of reoffende . do she agree that the whole system need reform and investment to restore public trust in our justice system , and to keep my constituent safe ? my hon . friend will know that in our safe street mission , improve confidence in the criminal justice system be one of the key outcome we be focus on . he be right to make the point that the whole criminal justice system require stabilisation . it all need to be put on a well trajectory than the one we inherit from the previous Government . we be talk in detail about prison , but it be difficult to divorce what be happen in our prison system from what be go on in probation and the court . I reassure he that I conceive of this as a whole - system approach . I be aware of the challenge in other bit of the system ; they be thing that this Government will ultimately sort out . the Lord Chancellor speak with great clarity and determination on this issue , and I be sure that she will remember last week promise I a ministerial meeting involve my constituent , Andrew Duncan , and a specialist team . they be work on a new concept of community detention that I believe be tailor - make for the vision that the Lord Chancellor have outline to we today . can she confirm that the meeting will go ahead , notwithstanding the extra opportunity to give evidence to the Gauke review in due course ? I know immediately that the right hon . Gentleman be go to ask about the meeting he reference last week , when I make my other statement . I assure he that I will follow that up . I be interested in the work of the group that he mention , and I be sure that the sentencing review panel will also be interested in it . I thank the Lord Chancellor for her statement , and for the leadership she have show in try to turn around a Department that , by any metric , be fail . I thank she for the transparent and consider approach that she have take in reach some of the difficult decision she have have to make since take office . while I accept the inevitability of the early release scheme , what conversation have she have with ministerial colleague on improve victim support for those who have see perpetrator return to the community early than they be perhaps mentally prepared for , so as to reduce harm as far as possible ? I can assure my hon . friend that my ministerial team and I have be work closely with our colleague , primarily in the Home Office , but also across Government . support for victim sit in different department , but we be make sure that we have a " one team " approach to this important matter . I have seek to pull the lever at my disposal in such a way that we give the Probation Service the time it need to prepare for the SDS40 change . I do that because I want to ensure that our obligation under the victim notification scheme could be meet . I be monitor progress on that regularly , and I will ensure that any improvement require be make on a continual basis . we keep this under constant review . Neil Foden be in prison for the sexual abuse of four vulnerable schoolchildren . he be the headteacher and strategic headteacher at two secondary school in Gwynedd . Foden be convict of 19 charge and sentence to 17 year in July this year for his abhorrent crime . the judge say he show no remorse . can the Lord Chancellor advise I how to seek assurance for his victim that Foden will not be release until he have serve at least two third of his sentence ? I can confirm that all sex offence of all type be exclude from the SDS40 measure . I very much welcome the Lord Chancellor ' s sentencing review , but on immediate systemic issue , privately run Forest Bank prison in Salford be at 138 % capacity , with continue report over the year of high level of violence and insufficient rehabilitative training for prisoner . the contract run out in January . can the Secretary of State confirm who will be run the prison after that date ? will she be bring it back under state control ? what measure be she take to urgently ensure safety in the prison and adequate rehabilitative training ? I will not pre - empt any future decision on any particular prison , but I be not ideological about whether a prison be run by the state or privately . there be good prison of both type in the sector . there be some fail state - run prison and some fail privately run prison . the most important thing be that we get on top of the capacity crisis across the whole prison estate . we have to reduce overcrowding so that we can focus on the good - quality rehabilitation activity that I know governor in every type of prison want to ensure , so that prisoner can be help to turn their life around . I congratulate the Lord Chancellor on recognise that for some prisoner , the shortcoming of short sentence be properly remedie by provide for long one . on the review and David Gauke , it be difficult not to like he and even admire he , but I be not alone in regard he as a notorious wet , be I ? I will leave those characterisation to the internal working of the conservative party . I consider David Gauke to be a person with deep expertise in this area . he be a former Lord Chancellor who know this territory very well . he will be able to hit the ground run , and I know that he will go where the evidence take he . the Lord Chancellor refer to successful work in Texas . if we adopt such a model over here , how will victim be involve in shape that tough rehabilitation approach ? we will make sure that the review panel , when it be fully put together , include somebody with experience of work with victim of crime to make sure that that perspective be fully reflect in the investigation that the review undertake and , ultimately , in its finding and recommendation . may I congratulate the Lord Chancellor on the term of reference of this review , and the appointment of the excellent David Gauke ? I remain concerned , however , about the Government ' s evident enthusiasm for increase capacity . may I ask the Lord Chancellor directly whether she agree with her colleague in the other place that we imprison too many people in this country ? be the Lord Chancellor ' s ultimate aim to reduce the prison population ? we need to make sure that we have the prison place we need to lock up those who have to be lock up . that be fundamentally non - negotiable . we have to see an increase in prison capacity . I mention early that the previous Government fail to deliver 14 , 000 place . without they , we will run out of prison place again . we have to build the supply , and we have to do well on reoffende . all these thing be equally important , and they all have to be do at the same time . I will not set arbitrary figure for how many people can and should go to prison . I want to ensure that we never again run out of prison place , that we do well on rehabilitation and that we expand punishment outside prison . I welcome the announcement of the bipartisan sentencing review panel and thank my right hon . friend for her continue work to fix the mess of the last 14 year in this Department . the evidence show that 55 % of adult on short sentence go on to reoffend , while community order have a 34 % reoffending rate . can she assure I that the panel will consider that as part of its remit ? that be exactly the sort of area that the panel will review . although the reoffende rate for community order be low , they be still far too high . I be sure that the sentencing panel will want to consider how to bring all the number down so that we can ensure we be rehabilitate more people and ultimately cut crime . in 2021 , the Justice Committee highlight the fact that too many offender be imprison because community order with mental health requirement be unavailable in many area across the country . do the Lord Chancellor agree that we must now work across the health and justice system to ensure that adequate provision be available in this essential area ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . I can assure she that I will work closely with the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care to make sure that there be join - up across Government and that we do everything we can to reduce reoffende , rehabilitate more people and ultimately cut crime . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement , particularly her preference for the deportation of foreign criminal and her comment that for hyper - prolific offender , a particular problem in my constituency , long sentence may be good . whatever the outcome of the review , can she commit that dangerous criminal who pose a threat to the public , in Hartlepool or anywhere else , will always be lock up under this government ? yes , I absolutely can . the whole point of the review be to ensure that the country be never again in a position in which we might run out of prison place , and to ensure that those who must be lock up to keep the public safe will always be lock up . keep a prisoner in prison cost the taxpayer over £ 50 , 000 a year , whereas punish the prisoner out of prison cost less than £ 5 , 000 a year . what be more , the prisoner be then far less likely to reoffend . do the Secretary of State agree that taxpayer ' money would be well spend on have a much cheap and well alternative to prison ? my hon . friend make a really important point about the relative cost of imprisonment and of punishment out of prison . deliver the 14 , 000 prison place that the previous Government fail to deliver be a big cost , but it will be meet by this Government . we must also ensure that we expand punishment out of prison . all option must be pursue if we be to get to grip with this crisis . I be not give to hyperbole ; I will simply say that my right hon . friend have inherit a shocking and dangerous situation and be deal with it in a calm and collect manner . I applaud and support the move to a more sensible and sustainable policy on sentencing , but will she assure my constituent in Rugby that we will always lock up violent and dangerous offender where necessary to keep the public safe ? let I assure my hon . friend that the answer to his question be yes and yes . part of the reason for do the review be to ensure that this country be never again on the brink of run out of prison place , and that dangerous offender who need to be lock up to keep the public safe will always be lock up . I welcome the sentencing review and thank the Secretary of State for her explanation of why IPP sentence be not include in the review . what step will she take to accelerate route out of custody for prisoner serve IPP sentence , include a re - sentencing review that can be do without prejudice to public protection , to end an injustice once and for all and to increase capacity on our prison estate ? I hear the point my hon . friend make , and she make it very well . we be not consider a re - sentencing exercise for IPP prisoner , because that would automatically release a number of people who we do not believe it would be safe to release . I be not willing to compromise public protection . I know that there be a huge injustice at the heart of these issue and that IPP sentence have rightly be abolish , but we have a problem with the cohort , in particular those under an IPP sentence who have never be release at all . I be determined to make more progress , wherever it be possible to do so safely , on release more IPP prisoner , but never in a way that compromise public protection . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s commitment to cross - party working , transparency and rebuild public trust . do she agree that this be a significant departure from the previous Government , who release over 10 , 000 prisoner not in the open but in secret ? I agree . my hon . friend be right to remind the House of the last Conservative Government ' s end of custody supervise licence scheme , for which we , in the end , have to release the number . over 10 , 000 offender be release under that scheme , without transparency and without the same exemption that we have apply to the SDS40 change . what a mess we have inherit ! I thank the Lord Chancellor for the step that she have take today to sort it out . we know that offender who be subject to home detention order be 50 % less likely to reoffend , but can we put they to work as well during unpaid work session ? can we ensure that offender who commit further offence while on licence be deal with more robustly in the court as they be recall to prison ? my hon . friend raise really important point about how we break the cycle of recall to prison and ensure that licence condition be abide by , and about the scope for put more offender to work . I be sure that these will be matter of great interest to the sentencing review panel . I look forward to see its finding in due course . the past 14 year have show that government ignore the prison estate at their peril . my right hon . Friend rightly say that we must redesign punishment outside the secure estate . will she elaborate on how offender will have their liberty curtail and how the public will be make aware of that liberty be take away ? the modern world , with different technology , present the good possible opportunity for we to expand the use of punishment out of prison , but in a way that give the public confidence that offender be be supervise , that the eye of the state remain on they and that their behaviour and their liberty be effectively curtail . I expect that new technology , as well as current available technology , will be of great interest to the review panel . I look forward to its finding when it report in the spring . Bill present Trade Agreements ( Exclusion of National Health Services ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Seamus Logan , support by Stephen Flynn , Pete Wishart , Kirsty Blackman , Dave Doogan , Stephen Gethins , Chris Law , Graham Leadbitter , Brendan o ' Hara , Claire Hanna and Ben Lake , present a Bill to exclude requirement relate to National Health Services procurement , delivery or commission from international trade agreement ; to require the consent of the House of Commons and the devolved legislature to international trade agreement insofar as they relate to the National Health Services of England , Scotland and Wales and Health and Social Care in Northern Ireland ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 17 January 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 109 ) . Vehicle Registration Documents ( Sale of Vehicle ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Mr Richard Holden present a Bill to require a seller of a vehicle to record their home address or specify information about a company that own the vehicle in the vehicle ' s registration document ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 28 March 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 107 ) . Dogs ( Protection of Livestock ) ( Amendment ) ( no . 2 ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Joe Morris present a Bill to make provision change the law about the offence of livestock worry , include change to what constitute an offence and increase power for investigation of suspect offence ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 25 April 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 52 ) . Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and International Committee of the Red Cross ( Status ) Bill [ Lords ] second reading I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . I put on the record my previous engagement with the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association , on many excellent and informative trip that contribute to our relationship across the Commonwealth , and my past engagement with the International Committee of the Red Cross . I be delighted to see the Bill back in the House ; I hope that there will be wholehearte unity today to ensure that it make it to Royal Assent . I think this be its fourth iteration . the last time it be debate here be as a private Member ' s Bill in the last session , but sadly it run out of time before the Dissolution of Parliament for the general election . I pay tribute to the former Member for Basingstoke for her tireless work in introduce that Bill and push it through , and to many hon . member , some of whom I see here today , for their past work with the cpa and the icrc . it be critical that both the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and the International Committee of the Red Cross be give their correct status in UK legislation to conduct their work and deliver their objective while operate in the UK . this will help to guarantee that the cpa remain headquarter in the UK and will ensure that the UK can guarantee the icrc that the confidential information that it share as a matter of course with the UK Government be secure and protect . the UK be deeply committed to the Commonwealth and believe that the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting , which the Foreign Secretary be attend in Samoa , will be an important opportunity to mobilise action on share interest , include uphold share Commonwealth value . those value be embody by the cpa ' s important work to strengthen inclusive and accountable democracy across the Commonwealth . I think back to my own many engagement with the cpa in which I have see that work at first hand , both when delegation have visit and when I have be part of delegation . the UK value its partnership with the cpa and be proud to support the work of the cpa and its regional branch cpa UK . that include develop benchmark and indicator of parliamentary democracy and address modern slavery in supply chain and issue such as gender - base violence with Parliaments and parliamentarian across the Commonwealth . the icrc be an essential partner in achieve the UK ' s global humanitarian objective . it have a unique mandate from state to uphold the Geneva convention and work globally to promote international humanitarian law . its impartiality , neutrality and independence allow it to engage and negotiate with all party to a conflict and to provide protection and humanitarian assistance to vulnerable population , often in contexts in which other agency be unable to operate . I have witness its important work , in opposition and in my past career in the humanitarian sector . clause 1 and 2 will therefore provide for both organisation to be treat in a manner comparable to an international organisation , with the associate privilege and immunity . treatment as an international organisation will allow the cpa to continue to operate fully across the Commonwealth and international fora . it will allow the organisation to participate fully in area in which it be currently restrict , include sign up to joint international statement and communiqu é s . that be vital to ensure that the cpa can continue its work to promote democracy and good governance across the Commonwealth . the cpa be currently register with the Charity Commission for England and Wales and be not an international intergovernmental organisation ; it therefore have its own unique constitutional arrangement that reflect its specific international mandate . clause 2 be critical to enable the icrc to operate in the UK in accordance with its international mandate , maintain its strict adherence to the principle of neutrality , impartiality and independence and its work method of confidentiality . the icrc be not an inter - governmental organisation either ; it have its own unique and historical international humanitarian mandate to protect the life and dignity of victim of armed conflict and other situation of violence and to provide they with assistance . nobody doubt the good work of the cpa or the icrc — we have all see it as parliamentarian — but do the Minister understand that many of we be a little wary about confer privilege and immunity by Order in Council after the Bill be pass , since this House be not , in general , in the habit of grant privilege and immunity without scrutiny ? the right hon . Gentleman can be assure that these be the appropriate measure . we have determine this way in line with previous discussion on the previous iteration of the Bill . this be the good way to achieve the aim of the Bill in a timely fashion , so that the provision be put in place for the cpa and the icrc . I be very happy to write to he far on this matter . the Bill will face scrutiny in Committee , where we will be able to discuss these matter in great detail . the provision in clause 1 and 2 will ensure that the cpa and the icrc can be accord comparable treatment to an international organisation , even when the definition of international organisation in exist legislation be limit to intergovernmental organisation . for the cpa , this treatment will be limit to its core international organ , such as the secretariat . it be not intend that any privilege , immunity or other facility be extend to any of the national or sub - national branch , so this be a limited provision . the arrangement for both organisation will detail the day - to - day management of the privilege and immunity grant on a functional need basis , and other facility . they will make it clear that there will be no immunity for the cpa ' s secretary - general or representative of the icrc in respect of damage cause by , for example , a motor vehicle operate or own by either . the way that the limitation and requirement have be set out in this regard be important . clause 2 ( 1 ) ( e ) lay out an important confidentiality provision , to protect certain information provide in confidence to his Majesty ' s Government by the icrc from be disclose in UK civil court proceeding or under any statutory provision or rule of law . as my noble Friend Baroness Chapman state on Second Reading in the other place , this provision reflect the icrc ' s standard working method of confidentiality , which be design to protect its staff and operation in active conflict zone . I be sure that member will understand that publicly disclose information that the icrc obtain from confidential dialogue with conflict party be likely to put at risk its ability to have confidential dialogue with conflict party , its humanitarian access and , indeed , the security of its staff , and might result in the icrc restrict the information it share with the UK . however , in relation to the concern that member have raise in the past , the Bill do not provide an absolute blanket exemption for disclosure requirement for all icrc communication . important limitation have be incorporate , such as the exclusion of criminal case . the Government continue to be commit to respect the confidentiality of icrc information as a matter of policy . past practice have demonstrate the importance of do so . the Bill be an opportunity to end any uncertainty about the Government ' s position and to put this practice on a statutory footing . I want to turn briefly to clause 3 , which be equivalent to section 8 of the International Organisations Act 1968 , which allow the Secretary of State to certify question of fact relate to the status of , or the privilege and immunity confer on , the organisation . in the context of court proceeding , if a question arise of whether a person be entitle to any privilege or immunity by virtue of an order in Council make under clause 1 or 2 , such a certification be to be treat as conclusive evidence of those fact for the purpose of proceeding . clause 4 detail the scope and extent of the Orders in Council that confer privilege and immunity on both organisation under clause 1 and 2 respectively — this relate to the intervention from the right hon . member for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) . an Order in Council may make different provision for different case or person , and it may also contain consequential , supplementary , incidental , transitional or save provision . clause 4 also provide the enable power for two important aspect : first , the Order in Council may specify circumstance in which privilege and immunity do not apply , either because of an exception or because they have be waive by the organisation ; and secondly , the Order in Council may specify that fiscal relief and exemption be subject to arrangement or condition impose by the Secretary of State . clause 4 provide that any order in Council make for these purpose will be subject to the draft affirmative parliamentary procedure , which mean that they will require the approval of both Houses before they may have effect . the list of privilege and immunity that may be confer on both organisation be set out in the schedule to the Bill and have be inform by the International Organisations Act . briefly , clause 5 explain that the term " icrc " mean the International Committee of the Red Cross , as give under clause 2 ( 1 ) ( a ) , and it ensure that the definition of " statutory provision " allow for the treatment of the cpa and the icrc as international organisation in respect of all relevant primary and secondary legislation , include devolve legislation in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland whenever make . in conclusion , and to reiterate what be say in the other place , the Bill will give the cpa and the icrc the correct status in UK legislation to allow both organisation to continue their international operation without unnecessary restriction . the Government have a strong commitment to the Commonwealth . it continue to support our global humanitarian objective through our work with the icrc , and the Bill be a true reflection of that . I hope that it will enjoy the wholehearte support of the House as it proceed swiftly into law . I commend it to the House . first , I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the former Member for Basingstoke , Maria Miller , who champion the Bill so vigorously and bring a Bill on this issue to the House no few than three time . I thank the Minister of State for his kind word about she . before Parliament be dissolve , the Bill have complete its passage through the House of Commons and its second reading in the House of Lords . although the number of hon . friend behind I may suggest otherwise , we on the conservative Benches will support the Bill , an update of it have be bring before Parliament . I also thank my noble Friend Baroness Anelay of St Johns , who have long campaign for the Bill ' s provision in the other place , and Lord Ahmad , the previous Minister for the Commonwealth , who fully understand the need for and importance of the Bill . I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Melton and Syston ( Edward Argar ) , who wrap up this debate when we be last in government ; I fear that I shall not do it the justice that he do . as his constituency neighbour , I shall do my good . the Bill may be small and technical , but it be important . the legal change it contain will ensure the continued success of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and the International Committee of the Red Cross — two organisation that do vital work — in the UK . as you be aware , Madam Deputy Speaker , Mr Speaker be president of the UK Commonwealth Parliamentary Association , whose work be indispensable in help to realise the Commonwealth charter ' s commitment to the development of free and democratic society . as the Minister say , it be timely that we should be debate the Bill today as the Commonwealth Heads of Government meet in Samoa . it be the first ever Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting to be hold in a pacific small state island . that demonstrate the importance of the Commonwealth in empower the voice of small state and the equity of membership of all of those in the Commonwealth . I have be privileged to both attend and speak at cpa summit under Mr Speaker ' s presidency and I have learn a huge amount from Commonwealth colleague — although , perhaps surprisingly for those in the House , I do not have any foreign visit with they to declare . the cpa create pathway to friendship across the Commonwealth , build up the person - to - person relationship that matter so very much . we be all very aware of the acute threat to democracy internationally . the cpa be a genuinely positive institution , allow good practice to be share , link parliamentarian in friendship , and strengthen resilience across our society . long may it continue . I very much welcome the Bill , which support two important organisation . the King be currently in Australia as the Head of the Commonwealth . will my hon . friend join I in pay tribute to the Commonwealth — that family of nation with share value — and to the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association , which , as she have say , provide such an opportunity to share good practice and spread the common good of democracy right across the Commonwealth ? I thank my hon . friend . it be so rare for we to celebrate the positive in this House , but the Bill do exactly that . we should be proud of how his Majesty have champion the Commonwealth , both before he become our monarch and since . I look forward to his arrival in Samoa in the come day . the Conservative Government proudly run multiple project with the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association to strengthen the democratic nature of legislature and how decision be approach and make . ultimately , the Bill will amend the legal environment to ensure that the cpa remain headquarter in the UK ; again , we can all agree that that be unambiguously positive . in an increasingly dark world , it be worth fight for those small shoot of light that offer a glimpse of a path to a well future . this be one . I will turn to the International Committee of the Red Cross . the icrc have a unique legitimacy to engage all party to conflict and unparalleled access to vulnerable people in conflict zone . frequently , it be the only agency operate at scale in conflict . for example , it be currently operate in Ukraine , Afghanistan and Syria — I declare an interest , as I have previously work with the organisation in some of those zone . in 2023 alone the icrc ' s 18 , 000 staff support over 730 hospital , mainly in conflict zone , and provide food assistance to more than 2 . 7 million people . I be proud that the previous Conservative Government commit £ 1 million to the icrc to provide life - save care and essential supply to people affect by the conflict in Nagorno - Karabakh . the Bill will guarantee to the icrc that the sensitive information that it must be able to share with the Government will be protect . we do not want the icrc to have to restrict the information that it share with the UK because of the risk of disclosure , so the Bill make an important step , particularly when it come to hostage . give that there be so much suffering globally , we need to take every possible step to ensure that our humanitarian effort be effective . I be pleased that there will be , I hope , cross - party agreement on that . the Bill will mean that the UK extend the privilege and immunity to both organisation in a manner comparable to that of an international organisation of which we be a member . the measure may be a little novel , but it be a neat legal solution that address both central challenge around which the Bill be centre . although the change provide a firm footing for the future work of both the cpa and the icrc , they also offer the opportunity for the fulfilment of foreign policy objective . if they be to be a success , the Government must seize the opportunity present by the Bill . once our relationship with the icrc be secure , how do the Government plan on improve collaboration and , most importantly , result ? what share area of interest will the Government focus on and how will those manifest in tangible outcome ? have the Minister assess which specific part of the Bill will facilitate that work ? if so , will he share that assessment with the House ? on the cpa , have the Minister scope any additional support that the Government could provide to both the delegation and the institution as a whole to bolster its work ? will he commit to building on the good work of the Conservative Government to help strengthen institution in Commonwealth country , use a whole - ecosystem approach ? finally , when we be in government we commit that the Foreign Secretary would consult the chair of the UK branch and the secretary - general of the cpa and the president and director - general of the icrc respectively , before finalise secondary legislation . can the Minister confirm that that have take place ? if democracy be to thrive , there need to be equilibrium across a range of area — from justice and the application of the rule of law , to the protection of human right , freedom of speech , safeguard against corruption , effective effort to counter extremism , integrity in the public sector , and the capability to face down external threat and protect our people . at a time when the world be more insecure and more dangerous , we be face by authoritarian state bend on undermine the open international order on which so much of our security and prosperity rest . the Commonwealth be more important than ever , and we must not allow any insinuation otherwise to undermine our effort on its behalf . the organisation account for more than quarter of the membership of the United Nations , and more need to be do with it . crucially , through the Commonwealth charter , it be a champion of the sound value and principle that must prevail in the future if we be to build a well world . the Government must not forgo the opportunity to deepen that co - operation with Commonwealth partner and enhance the benefit of membership . membership of the Commonwealth can and must be see as a route to a well future , fundamentally rooted in the noble value set out in the Commonwealth charter . we must strengthen intra - Commonwealth trade , build up the economy of country struggle to attract inward investment , boost resilience , particularly when it come to small island develop state , and do what be central to today ' s debate : promote democracy and good governance through respectful understanding and collaboration . for every tyrant sacrifice innocent life in pursuit of unbridled power , there be thousand of hard - work , conscientious people work to make their contribution for a well future . the cpa and the ICRC embody that noble tradition , and the change today will secure their continued success . we support the Bill , as we do in the last Parliament . we will encourage the Government to make the most of every opportunity that it confer . I call the Chair of the International Development Committee . it be a real honour to follow the hon . member for Rutland and Stamford ( Alicia Kearns ) . I agree with her high praise of both the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and the International Committee of the Red Cross . I be go to focus on the Red Cross / Red Crescent but should also say that personally I have benefit so much from the cpa . its member have share their experience , and it be always a joy when they come to Parliament here — as parliamentarian , we love learn from each other . to build on the point make by the hon . member for Rutland and Stamford , I should say that we be in a very fragile world . this be an opportunity for we to invest time , money and commitment into our Commonwealth family . we need each other right now more than ever . let I now turn to the International Committee of the Red Cross , and , indeed , the International Red Cross and Red Crescent movement as a whole . every day , they provide hope for hundred of thousand of people across the globe who be face disaster of many kind . I want to thank the icrc personally for its consistent and valuable engagement with my Committee . for those reason , I fully support the Bill . the network consist of 80 million people , most of whom be volunteer . they help other face disaster , conflict , health issue and social challenge , and I pay tribute to they . the movement consist of the icrc , 191 national Red Cross and Red Crescent society , and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies . the icrc itself have more than 18 , 000 staff in over 90 country , and its work have gain it three Nobel peace prize . at a time when more than 65 million people be flee 120 armed conflict globally , the work of this organisation be vital and can not be underestimate . the icrc be also crucial to parliamentary engagement with these situation , and I be sure that member on both side of the House have benefit from its wisdom . its ability to provide the International Development Committee with up - to - date , impartial , trustworthy and relevant briefing from the ground — and it do that in private when necessary — have allow successive idc to raise the profile of disaster , and , importantly , to hold government to account for their response . in February this year , its team in Egypt meet our Committee to discuss the humanitarian situation in Gaza . the egyptian team be co - ordinate all the supply into Gaza at that point , and their work be phenomenal . here be a group of volunteer who uproot themselves to go where other need their support the most , and what I witness be nothing short of remarkable . the brave worker in this movement continue to pay the ultimate price . in 2023 - 24 , six icrc staff member be kill globally . as of 21 October , 21 Palestinian Red Crescent Society worker have be kill in Gaza and the west bank . six member of the Magen David Adom , the Red Cross in Israel , have also be kill while help other since 7 October 2023 . yet their colleague continue the lifesave medical care , food distribution , water and sanitation project , support those who have be detain and remind party of their obligation under international humanitarian law in diabolical war zone . I should like we all to remember and pay tribute to their sacrifice today . early in my first tenure as Chair of the International Development Committee , I meet the former icrc president , Peter Maurer — virtually , as this be during the covid - 19 pandemic . we discuss the impact of covid on conflict - affect community , the situation in Yemen , Syria and Myanmar , and the need for the IDC to continue to shine a light on conflict - affect context around the world . that be a commitment that we continue to honour . in November last year , the Committee meet the icrc ' s director for the Africa region to discuss Sudan . in the last Parliament , the icrc submit evidence for the inquiry into climate change , aid effectiveness , racism in the aid sector , and prevent sexual exploitation and abuse . its submission be hugely helpful as the Committee make its recommendation to the Government , and , again and again , they have prove to be an invaluable resource for Parliament on the application of international humanitarian law . this much - need Bill will allow the icrc to continue to operate in the UK with its international mandate , and will provide the security need for it to continue its vital , impartial work with immunity from jurisdiction . I hope that the House give it a safe passage . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I be pleased to welcome the Bill and support the recognition of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and the International Committee of the Red Cross as international organisation . as liberal we be internationalist , and the Bill fit with liberal Democrat policy of international co - operation and the upholding of international humanitarian law by support the strengthening of international body and organisation that seek to forward those aim . anything that can be do in this fragile global environment to strengthen global collaboration be something that we must support . treat these organisation as international body would be a testament to the House ' s share commitment to international humanitarian law — which we want to be practise even in the most fraught zone of conflict — and our commitment to good governance and its promotion in the world . the International Committee of the Red Cross be an independent body that play a crucial role in protect civilian life in the midst of conflict and war zone . today , when there be more than 120 ongoing armed conflict in the world , its work be need more than ever . it have be active over the last year in Ukraine , help to ensure that over 4 million people have have access to water , heat and electricity . it have work in Sudan distribute food assistance to more than 42 , 000 people and help with water purification , benefit more than 2 million people . in Gaza , it have be support basic need and medical equipment . it have engage the party of the conflict and remind they of their responsibility under international humanitarian law , and have work to facilitate the release , transfer and return of hostage and detainee from both side . it be important that we strengthen its ability to do this work without fear . the new designation merely mean that we be catch up with many of our peer nation : more than 110 state have now grant the icrc relevant privilege and immunity — include every other member of the UN Security Council — in recognition of its unique mandate , which demand above all that it be allow to maintain its neutrality . the icrc ' s history be singularly bind up with the history of the Geneva convention . it persuade government to adopt the first and original Geneva convention 160 year ago this year . that treaty oblige army to care for wounded soldier , whatever side they be on , and introduce the red cross on the white background — the unifying emblem for medical service for any and every side , across border and enemy line . the committee ' s remit expand alongside the successive Geneva convention , and in 1949 expand to include civilian . I be sure member will acknowledge , give current conflict , that the icrc ' s obligation to civilian be as essential now as it be 75 year ago ; indeed , in 2022 the UN estimate that 87 % of casualty result from hostility be civilian . in such zone , the icrc be often almost alone among agency in co - ordinating and deliver aid at scale , and , crucially , in have line of communication with belligerent . for these reason , the fcdo refer to the icrc as an " essential partner " for achieve the UK ' s humanitarian goal , as well as our wish to see international humanitarian law uphold . liberal Democrats believe in the universal conception of civilian right assert by the fourth Geneva convention and the additional protocol . in work across conflict zone with non - combatant — with prisoner , hostage and the wound — the icrc act as a guardian of international humanitarian law . that status be possible only because the committee be understand to be neutral , apply universal rather than partisan principle . the privilege and immunity lay out in the Bill include inviolability for its archive and premise , which will assure party to conflict of the confidentiality of its information and its independence . they also include the testimonial and narrow criminal immunity that will permit the icrc ' s staff to maintain the necessary conversation with proscribe group , without which their most challenging work would not be possible . neglect to take these step risk threaten the fundamental mission of the icrc at a time when it be need more than ever . as part of its mandate , the committee be in the vanguard of clarify and develop international humanitarian law . sadly , there have be an increase in permissive interpretation of IHL , and without the icrc ' s perspective and experience , the analysis through which we protect those catch in conflict zone would be poor . the Bill also provide for international organisation status to be confer on the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association , which be make up of 180 Commonwealth legislature from 53 Commonwealth country . as other member have point out , this seem a particularly fitting moment for the Bill to reach the House , give that leader be now gather in Samoa for the 27th Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting . the Commonwealth be a rare organisation , be a voluntary association of states bind not by economic or security tie , but by share value and , even more , by share aspiration . as the instrument through which aspiration and value be pursue , the constitution of the cpa uphold share principle of democracy , development , equality , human right and environmental protection . the cpa have promote and strengthen parliamentary democracy since its establishment in 1911 , and it allow for parliamentarian from across the Commonwealth to engage in dialogue and learn from each other . we support enhance the status of the cpa by grant it protection and immunity that be comparable to those of the Commonwealth Foundation and the Commonwealth of Learning . in 2006 , the cpa publish its benchmark — 87 indicator against which parliamentary democracy can be measure . these be update in 2018 to include the UN ' s sustainable development goal , which chime with the Liberal Democrats ' manifesto commitment to put the sdg at the heart of our international development policy . although we be disappoint that the Labour party ' s manifesto do not mention the sdg , we have be encourage by the fact that they be reference in the Chatham House speech give by the Minister for Development last week . I hope that member of all party be unite in our commitment to the sdg . the Commonwealth include both the world ' s most populous democracy and its least populous . since 2018 , 33 jurisdiction have undertake assessment use the cpa criterion , and many have subsequently participate in technical assistance programme — multi - year programme that be focus on strengthen institution and build parliamentary capacity . with its new status as an international inter - parliamentary organisation , the cpa will be enable to sign the international agreement that it have be prevent from signing , hold Commonwealth government to account for action against parliamentarian , provide member Parliaments with well governance , and participate fully in Commonwealth work , include at CHOGM . I be glad that the House be consider this Bill , which be design to support the work of the cpa and the icrc by designate they as international organisation . this step will simplify the challenge that they both face in work so widely across the globe as essential vehicle for the delivery of international humanitarian aid and democracy , which be never more need than now . it will underscore our commitment to the Commonwealth , keep the cpa headquarter in the UK and ensure that the icrc remain secure in the UK . anything that this House can do to ease the execution of their work , which have such noble aim , should be jump at , and the Liberal Democrats support this Bill . I rise to support the second reading of this Bill , which be long overdue and , as we have hear , have cross - party support . it have receive unwavering support in both this parliamentary Session and the previous Parliament , which be a testament to the importance that member on both side of this House place on its intention . as we have hear , the debate be timely , give that the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting be take place this week to address global security and the environmental and social challenge affect we all . the Commonwealth nation be unite in their belief in the rule of law and the importance of democracy . since its birth in 1911 , the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association have promote those endure value as the Commonwealth ' s parliamentary arm . with the threat of global conflict more present than ever , the work of the cpa to protect , develop and advance parliamentary democracy be more important than ever before . it be therefore crucial that the cpa , which be currently limit by its status as a UK charity , can participate fully in the international community . I be pleased that this Bill will address that issue , for the follow reason . first , the Bill provide some 18 , 500 Commonwealth parliamentarian with the credibility and authority that they need to operate on the international stage . by grant similar privilege and immunity to those bestow on comparable international organisation , the Bill place the cpa on an equal standing at international fora , so that member have the require platform to address global challenge . this also mean that the organisation will enjoy a similar legal status to its parliamentary - strengthen counterpart such as the Inter - Parliamentary Union in Switzerland , reinforce its reliability as a preferred partner for legislature in capacity building . my second point relate to the organisation ' s scope . I welcome the Bill , because it extend the potential breadth of the cpa ' s work by treat it like the other international organisation of which the UK be a member . this will allow the cpa to expand its programme , project and activity on parliamentary practice and procedure . as a UK charity , the cpa be currently subject to restriction under UK legislation on the charity sector . for example , it be limit in its ability to sign international convention and pursue political purpose . the cpa be therefore restrict in its ability to fully promote the value set out in the Commonwealth charter , and to address the priority of its membership . an example of the cpa ' s priority be find in its recommend benchmark for democratic legislature . these be 132 good governance indicator that Commonwealth legislator should measure themselves against , cover minimum standard on financial oversight , engagement with the medium , and political petitioning , to name but a few . this Bill give the cpa great freedom to promote good governance programme throughout the Commonwealth nation . furthermore , this Bill be important for maintain the UK ' s involvement in the cpa and the Commonwealth . the cpa ' s past two annual conference see its governing body decide to relocate its headquarters to a member state that would provide the recognition that it need , if this could not be give in the UK . the Bill do not just empower the organisation ; it protect the UK ' s global influence by keep the cpa base here , so that our parliamentarian can have an active role in promote parliamentary democracy and good governance globally . the second organisation on which the Bill focus , the International Committee of the Red Cross , do vital work to protect victim of violence around the world . with grow conflict in Ukraine , Gaza , Sudan and elsewhere , the icrc ' s work as an independent humanitarian organisation be crucial . this Bill seek to protect that independence . clause 2 will provide for protect icrc information to be " exempt from any legal disclosure requirement impose by a court or tribunal order in civil proceeding , or by a statutory provision or rule of law " , with exemption for a court order in criminal proceeding . the Bill allow we to give the icrc the guarantee that any information share with the UK Government be protect , so that it can continue to do crucial work in assess victim of armed conflict . the icrc operate under a long - stand method of confidentiality , which mean that it engage mainly in confidential bilateral dialogue with state and other party , and it expect state to respect the confidentiality of any information share with they . be such information to be make public , it would hamper the icrc ' s ability to have confidential dialogue with , and to gain the trust of , conflict group . the icrc need to be perceive as a trustworthy organisation when seek dialogue with all actor , so that it can have full access to frontline and contested zone . indeed , this allow the icrc to continue to provide humanitarian assistance in conflict area such as Gaza and Sudan . for example , it have deliver 962 metric tonne of medical equipment amid the crisis in Gaza , and provide food assistance to over 42 , 000 people during the conflict in Sudan . in addition , the Bill will recognise the icrc as an international organisation . its mandate to act in time of global conflict be base on international humanitarian law under the Geneva convention of 1949 . over 110 state , include all the permanent member of the UN Security Council , have accord the icrc relevant privilege and immunity that be comparable to those of an international organisation . the absence of privilege and immunity provide by the UK have result in significant operational challenge for the icrc , so it be important that the UK follow its international partner . that would allow the icrc to operate in the UK and to manage its resource in a manner that be most beneficial to affected person , preserve its principle of neutrality . this Bill be a vital step towards ensure that the cpa and the icrc have the full confidence of the UK Government to promote our share value of democracy and the rule of law , and to provide humanitarian assistance to those who need it . have recently be elect to the UK executive committee of the cpa , I look forward to work with other Commonwealth parliamentarian to further those value and promote the standard of good governance that be necessary to make democracy work in today ' s world . with the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting take place in Samoa this week , it be important that the UK place itself at the heart of global diplomacy , and the Bill signify our intention to do so . this Bill be long overdue , and in grant privilege and immunity to the cpa and the icrc , it far secure their future and show that the UK be back to play an active and important role on the international stage . it be a great honour to follow the hon . member for Southgate and Wood Green ( Bambos Charalambous ) , who I have attend many inter - parliamentary event with , and who be an active participant of the cpa , the Inter - Parliamentary Union , the british - Irish Parliamentary Assembly and everything else he can be involve in . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . my comment will be short , because we have see this Bill before and this be probably the third time that I have speak in one of these debate — definitely the second time on Second Reading . I be delighted that it have be bring back and that we will have the chance to get it to Royal Assent . it be vital for the reputation of this place , for our view and for the work we do with the cpa UK . I will restrict my comment to the cpa , which be the body with which I be most familiar . on that note , I pay tribute to Maria Miller , as my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Stamford ( Alicia Kearns ) do . she try many time to pass this Bill — she be an enormous advocate and a true champion for the cpa . I also pay tribute to Ian Liddell - Grainger , late of this parish , who step into the role of chair the cpa with great aplomb , as hon . member will be able to imagine , when the previous chair pass away suddenly . he make certain commitment at the last Commonwealth Parliamentary Conference in Ghana , and it be great that they will be fulfil before the conference in New South Wales next month . I first become aware of the cpa ' s work when I be a Minister , because the cpa UK have a specific role with regard to modern slavery . it have ringfence funding from the fcdo to promote across the Commonwealth the work that we can do together to tackle that heinous crime . in fact , I be grateful to have be call now , because I will shortly disappear to speak on a panel in a seminar that the cpa UK be hold on strengthen legislation to address modern slavery in supply chain and gender - base violence . I be delighted to be able to speak in this debate before I take part in the reality of the cpa ' s work , which be an incredibly powerful tool for all of we . if hon . member have not yet be involve in an inter - parliamentary group , please join one . they will make friend for life , learn about what be go on in the rest of the world , and meet people from other legislature — not just national legislature . the great advantage of the cpa be that it involve Parliaments at all level of Commonwealth country , which mean that there be a chance to meet people from devolved Parliaments , regional Parliaments and provincial Parliaments . when we be in this place , we be very focused on what be happen here . I do not think that many people outside Westminster be aware of what we be do , but we be really focus on cpa and icrc status , and we will be for some time to come this afternoon and beyond . beyond that , however , people be look at other thing in other Parliaments . last week , at the IPU assembly in Geneva , it be wonderful to meet parliamentarian from around the world and hear what they be do , what their focus be and what challenge they face . when we do , we learn that many of those be common — we all face the same challenge — but there be some unique thing that other country face that we need to be aware of , work on and debate in this place . that be where the cpa , the British Group Inter - Parliamentary Union , BIPA and the british - American Parliamentary Group can bring parliamentarian together and give we that insight . I be delighted that the Bill be before we today and I support it wholeheartedly . I hope that , by the time we reach the next CPC next month , it have receive Royal Assent , and the promise that Ian Liddell - Grainger give to the conference last year can be deliver on . I wish the Minister all the good in his endeavour . I call Jas Athwal to make his maiden speech . I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I to make my maiden speech . I congratulate the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) on speak with such passion and purpose . she speak with clarity and detail , so I thank she for that . I want to thank my neighbour , the great people of Ilford South , for entrust I with the honour of serve they in this House . each one of we here serve by the grace of God and the will of the people , and I will spend my life repay the trust bestow upon I by the great people of Ilford South . at just seven year old , I travel to Ilford from the Punjab , not speak a word of English or know anyone outside my family , yet Ilford give I a home , an outstanding education and opportunity to build a well life . Ilford give I a community without whom I would not be stand here today . it be in Ilford that I first meet my right hon . friend the Member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) , and we begin our journey together in local government a decade ago . I will be forever grateful for his help , guidance and friendship , and I feel immensely proud of his tireless work to reform our NHS and create a service fit for the future . together with my predecessor , Mike Gapes , my right hon . friend and I successfully fight to save the A & E at our local King George hospital from closure , cement an endure friendship and a formidable reputation for Redbridge Labour as a campaigning tour de force to be reckon with . Mike Gapes spend his parliamentary career speak up for the marginalised community , secure the future of our local NHS provision and steadfastly serve our local community , all while stay true to his value . I endeavour to honour his legacy and continue his great work . Ilford South be a unique and inspiring place — a town that people travel to from all across the world to call home . since its formation in 1945 , those eager to dedicate themselves to public service have fight for the honour to represent the people of Ilford South , include my predecessor , Sam Tarry . I would like to thank Sam for his service to the people of Ilford and for his work advocate for local access to essential public transport as shadow Minister for Buses and Local Transport . my story be a story of Ilford South . like so many of my neighbour , I be bear overseas , raise speak a different language and arrive in Ilford seek a well life . Ilford South ' s fantastic school educate I , our high street ' s business employ I and our local community inspire I to be ambitious for my family , for the future of our home town and for our great country . People travel from across the world to call Ilford home , because Ilford be a place of promise , a place of opportunity and a place where community lift one another up , celebrate our diversity as well as our share experience . it be a place where a Sikh can be invite to share iftar with his muslim brother and sister , a place where I can join in the annual chariot festival at the Sri Selva Vinayagar temple , light a candle on the menorah during Hannukah , mark the festival of Janmashtami at the Albert Road mandir and every year turn on the Christmas light in Ilford town centre . as a Member of this House I be determined to deliver on the promise of Ilford South , to ensure that family can find a welcome home , safe street , exceptional school and the opportunity to succeed . in Ilford South our community come together to save King George Hospital ' s A & E department , and now this Labour Government will save our nhs so that hard - work healthcare professional can deliver the lifesaving care that patient deserve . I will continue to lift up community , just as they once support I to grow from a frightened seven - year - old immigrant to a Member of this House . it be thank to the democratic process of this country that I stand here today ready to serve my neighbour across Ilford South . in recent year we have all be remind that the security of democracy be not guarantee . across the world , battle for free and democratic election be hard fight , and the freedom we enjoy must always be resolutely defend . the great work of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association , promote good governance and share good practice across the Commonwealth , be to be admire and I be pleased that this debate recognise the need for a change to the status of association , and of the International Committee of the Red Cross , to enable they to well fulfil their vital endeavour . my parent come from Pakistan with nothing . we come here from India with nothing . it be my mission to repay my debt to my parent , to the people of Ilford South and to the place that adopt I , raise I and give I opportunity my parent could only dream of . each day that I arrive in this place , I will never forget who send I here , and I will not rest in my fight for my neighbour and for the bright future Ilford South deserve . what a pleasure it be to follow such a splendid maiden speech by the new hon . member for Ilford South ( Jas Athwal ) . as a third - generation immigrant myself , whose family live in the city of Swansea for more or less exactly 100 year , I know precisely how he feel in his gratitude to the place in a new country that give he every opportunity to develop his talent and ability to the point at which he deservedly find himself in this place . I be sure he will make maximum use of that opportunity . I particularly welcome his warm reference to his predecessor , Mike Gapes , who serve in this House for no few than 27 year and be the epitome of moderate , patriotic labour . he win respect on the conservative side of the House as well as on his own side , and it be sad that a point come when he feel he could no long remain a member of the Labour party , although I be glad to see from his Wikipedia entry that he be back in the fold today . this uncontroversial Bill seek to change the status of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and the International Committee of the Red Cross , to convert each of they into what be know as a body corporate . these be sensible proposal , which I broadly support . however , as state during the Sir David Amess Adjournment debate on the rise of the House on 12 September , there be one other organisation , with which I be rather familiar , that require the same change in status as the cpa and the icrc , to make it into a body corporate too . that organisation be the office that support the Intelligence and Security Committee of Parliament , and this Bill present we with the timely opportunity to achieve that necessary change . indeed , it be a perfect fit , so I trust that the House will bear with I while I explain the serious conflict of interest that have arise , why that conflict matter to Parliament and how it can easily be rectify with a simple addition to the Bill before the House today . for the benefit of new member in the Chamber , I should explain that the ISC be a cross - party Committee of both Houses of Parliament create by statute in 1994 . under the Justice and Security Act 2013 , the ISC be give the legal responsibility for oversee the UK ' s intelligence community on behalf of Parliament , yet Parliament ' s intent , as express in that Act , be currently be undermine . right hon . and hon . member might be surprised to learn that the ISC ' s office , with a very small number of staff , belong to the Cabinet Office , despite the ISC oversee certain sensitive organisation within the Cabinet Office . they would be right to be surprised , because that be indeed a fundamental conflict of interest , which be why , when the Justice and Security Act be pass , the Cabinet Office be suppose to be only the temporary home of the ISC ' s office . yet here we be , more than 10 year later , with the Committee staff still beholden to , vulnerable within , and unfairly pressured and even victimise by the very part of the Executive that the Committee be charge with scrutinise and hold to account on behalf of Parliament . the Executive should not be able to constrain and control the Committee ' s democratic oversight on Parliament ' s behalf by exert control over the ISC ' s small staff team to prevent they from do their job independently . such control mean that part of the Cabinet Office can — and do — starve the team of resource so that the ISC ' s staff be unable to fulfil the Committee ' s legal responsibility . that completely contravene and disregard a clear ministerial undertaking give by the then Deputy Prime Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Hertsmere ( Sir Oliver Dowden ) , before the recent general election about vital extra resource for the ISC staff . control by the Cabinet Office also mean that it can stigmatise and penalise the ISC ' s staff , blame they for the Committee ' s robust scrutiny , with damaging consequence for their future career in the civil service . such deplorable behaviour have include repeatedly downgrade highly positive assessment , submit by I as ISC Chairman at the time , of staff performance in recent year . in reality , the member of the ISC in the last Parliament value the Committee ' s staff very highly indeed , as I believe all member have since the Committee be first establish 30 year ago . we certainly find the arrangement that I have describe totally unacceptable . the ISC therefore formally resolve , by a unanimous vote across all three political party on the Committee , that it be essential for parliamentary democracy and its scrutiny system for the Committee ' s office to move out from under the control of the Executive — that is , from the Cabinet Office — and instead to be establish as an independent body corporate with a link to Parliament rather than to the Executive . that unanimous decision be confirm by the member of the Committee at its meeting on 19 March , follow expert and authoritative external advice that it be within the ISC ' s power to take such a step and to determine the suitable mechanism for implement it . that constitutional change , which the Cabinet Office have predictably attempt to ignore , be essential to protect the separation of power . it be also extremely easy to achieve . it require a very short amendment to the Justice and Security Act to change the status of the ISC ' s office . the amendment would establish the office as a body corporate to support the Intelligence and Security Committee of Parliament and safeguard the independence of the Committee itself . I have hope that the amendment would be include in the new legislative programme . unfortunately , but unsurprisingly in the Committee ' s absence since Parliament be dissolve for the general election , the Cabinet Office have hitherto manage to block it . however , that be to underestimate the previous member of the Committee , from both side of the House and in both Chambers , who be convince that the Committee ' s office can not and must not continue to be control by the Cabinet Office . the Bill , in seek to change the constitutional status of the cpa and the icrc and allow well provision for their staffing arrangement , be the ideal vehicle through which to achieve the same for the ISC ' s beleaguered office . it be the obvious place to include a short amendment to the Justice and Security Act to change the status of the ISC ' s staff organisation too . we must not pass up this opportunity : parliamentary time be precious , and there may not be another suitable vehicle during this Parliament . as a measure to secure democratic oversight , I be confident that the amendment should and would secure cross - party support in both Houses . prior to the election , both the then Government and the then Opposition seem to accept that this reform be need , which do rather beg the question why it have not yet happen . I intend to return to the issue at a later stage of the Bill with an amendment , and I trust , for the reason I have set out , that the House will support it . have chair the Intelligence and Security Committee for the past four year , and have also serve on it throughout the 2010 - 15 Parliament , I reiterate what I say in 2019 after more than four year as Chairman of the Defence Committee : it be well to stop while people wish you to carry on , than to carry on until people wish you to stop — [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] I be glad to have that endorsement . hopefully , I can still be a friend of both Committees on the Floor of this Chamber , while give support to my successor in office . it be as extraordinary as it be shameful that no Prime Minister see fit to meet with the Intelligence and Security Committee during the entirety of the last Parliament , although to her credit , during her short time at no . 10 , Liz Truss do offer to do so . perhaps the late occupant of Downing Street will show great respect towards a body that have consistently undertake sensitive inquiry , and produce report of the high quality and the sound judgment over the past 30 year , largely because of the calibre and integrity of its professional director and her dedicated staff . let we now do the right thing by they all . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) . I enjoy his detailed and comprehensive remark . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak in the debate on this important Bill , but I start by pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Ilford South ( Jas Athwal ) for his maiden speech , which share his story and the promise of our country . I declare my interest as co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group for the Commonwealth , a role I be elect to before the summer recess , and my newly mint role as a member of the executive of the UK branch of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association . the Commonwealth be all about create opportunity , and never more so than today , because I have the opportunity to give my first speech without a time limit , which I will enjoy . I welcome the Minister to his place . it be the first time I have have the opportunity to speak with he on the Front Bench . I be look forward to work with he and the Foreign Office team in the year ahead . I have know my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary for most of my life . I have the benefit of be his constituency twin during the election campaign , so he have the great pleasure of be able to visit Newcastle - under - Lyme and enjoy our warm hospitality , not least at the Victoria pub on Brampton Road . the Bill have be through the war and be rudely interrupted , as we have hear , by the general election . I be very pleased that the Government have bring it forward so speedily . where we can work together and make cross - party progress , we should do so as often as we can . I join the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Rutland and Stamford ( Alicia Kearns ) , in acknowledge the work of the former Member for Basingstoke , Dame Maria Miller . I also acknowledge all the cpa staff , lead by the excellent Sarah Dickson , who I believe may be watch the deliberation this afternoon . the Bill be about our standing on the world stage , and our role as a leader in the fight for human right , respect , decency and togetherness . as the Minister point out , it grant international status to both the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and the International Committee of the Red Cross , enable both those reputable and long - stand body to benefit from the immunity and privilege of all other international body , as set out in clause 1 and 2 . those immunity and privilege include the power to confer the legal capacity of a body corporate on the cpa and the icrc ; to grant the organisation , their information and staff certain privilege and immunity commensurate with their functional need ; to provide that reference to international organisation in general legislation include from now on reference to the cpa and the icrc ; and to allow for certain confidential information . as ever , the United Kingdom must lead by example , so although the Bill may feel technical in nature , as the shadow Minister say , there be a wide point here about our leadership at home and abroad . that be why it be so important that we keep the cpa headquarter here in the United Kingdom . the Bill have my full support and , I hope , judge by the comment of the liberal Democrat spokesperson and the shadow Minister , it will have support right across the House later this afternoon . this may not be the most oversubscribed second reading debate since the general election , but that should not be misinterpret as a lack of support for , a lack of faith in , or a lack of commitment to the Commonwealth , its legacy and its potential . with that in mind , and give that the Bill will help improve our reputation with our Commonwealth partner and friend enormously , I wish to take a moment to talk about the Commonwealth , and what it mean for today ' s world and for people in Newcastle - under - Lyme and right across the global community . as we look to the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting take place in the Pacific , we can see that this Bill be an important and long overdue step be take by the United Kingdom . in Samoa , Heads of Government , woman , man and young people from across the Commonwealth will come together to share idea , good practice , value and thought for move our global family forward , and for make their deliberation mean something in each of our community and nation . that be important , because our world be in a state of real flux . we at once seem ever more interconnected and as though we be be drive far and far apart . political leader across the world seem more interested in put up barrier and wall than tear they down , more interested in what divide we than what unite we , and some have no interest in bring people together . that be a matter of deep concern to I , but it also show the power and the importance of the Commonwealth family of nation . the Commonwealth be a voluntary organisation of 56 independent and equal country — perhaps not equal in size of economy or population , but equal as their leader sit round the table , engage and listen . our Commonwealth family be make up of about 2 . 5 billion people , and include both advanced economy and develop country , sun and snow , global north and global south , palm tree and oak , kangaroo and cattle , and woman , man and child who all deserve a chance to get on in life , to succeed and to feel safe and secure . will the hon . member give way ? I will happily give way to the Member of Parliament who represent my in - law in South Antrim . the hon . Member make the case on international relationship . the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) reference the devolved assembly ; may I ask he to acknowledge the contribution of the cpa branch across the devolved assembly , in Northern Ireland , Scotland and Wales ? I serve as chair of the Northern Ireland branch of the cpa , and look forward to join the hon . member as an executive member of the cpa branch here . it be a pleasure to have my genuine friend intervene . he serve honourably and nobly in the Northern Ireland Assembly . his point about the importance of the cpa branch in Northern Ireland , and of branch across our United Kingdom and the Commonwealth , be well make . as the hon . member for Esher and Walton ( Monica Harding ) note , 33 of the Commonwealth ' s member be small state , and they include many island nation , such as Jamaica , the land of my grandfather ' s birth . there be something very important about the leader of small island and small nation be at the table with the leader of country such as Singapore , Canada , New Zealand , Australia and , yes , the United Kingdom of Great Britian and Northern Ireland . we all know that the Commonwealth ' s root go back to the british empire , and that be a complicated history for all of we . we should not forget , or airbrush out , in take the step forward that this Bill will help we to take . we must embrace our history and our collective experience . my grandfather come here to serve King and country on a british passport in the 1940 . we would not have beat the Germans on the beach of Normandy , or at Gallipoli , without the bravery and valour of young man — black , white and asian — from across the Commonwealth , or the colony as they be then . today , any country can join the modern Commonwealth . the last two country to join be Gabon and Togo in 2022 . their admittance be interesting because neither have age - old colonial tie to the United Kingdom — indeed , there be very little that bind they with Britain — and that in many way prove a step in the right direction . there be more to do on this . I be very proud of my zimbabwean root , but it be a matter of deep personal sadness that a nation that once host the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting in the presence of her late Majesty now sit on the outside look in . with membership come responsibility , expectation and standard , as be the case for any club or team one join . that be why the Bill be so important . I hope that the discussion on Zimbabwe be give a thorough and detailed hearing when the leader gather in Samoa . I be one of few member who can claim to represent the birthplace of a leader of a Commonwealth country . the sixth Prime Minister of Australia , Joseph Cook , start off in the Labor party but end up a tory — [ interruption . ] I think Opposition Members would enjoy that . he be bear and raise in Silverdale in my constituency , and after leave our shore for Australia , he go on to hold the high role in the land . it be a legacy we be very proud of in Newcastle - under - Lyme . a couple of week ago , I be at St Luke ' s primary school in Silverdale , where there be a fantastic plaque that honour the memory of Cook and cherish the tie between our community and Australia . the Bill be important , because it herald , I hope , a change in british Government policy . we can not just engage when it suit we , or when we feel like it ; we can not and must not allow the bond to fray , the contact to cease , or let the phone call go unanswered . we have see many example across Africa and the caribbean and , increasingly , in the Pacific of the Chinese Government have people on speed dial . the perception — certainly mine and in many other part of the world — be that the United Kingdom , for at least the past 30 year or so , have fail effectively and properly to seize the opportunity that the Commonwealth provide . I be pleased that the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary be both go to the Pacific — there be compete demand on senior colleague from all of we every day — but her late Majesty Queen Elizabeth always say that she have to be see to be believe , and she be right . that be why be important for the Prime Minister to make the admittedly long journey to the meeting . our departure from the European Union be mean to lead to a global Britain agenda , and I urge my hon . friend the Minister to make sure that that agenda become a reality . the Bill and the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association will help we to do that . they show our ally and friend across the Commonwealth that we take our relationship and our responsibility seriously , that we understand the example we must set , and that we be determined to build , as Gordon Brown would put it , a renew Commonwealth with a renew purpose for new time . as the hon . member for South Antrim ( Robin Swann ) note , if the Bill be pass , colleague will engage with parliamentarian from across the Commonwealth through the cpa , as I will in the period ahead , and will have something positive to say , which be important . the viability and future of the Commonwealth be on the line if we do not get this new relationship right . the new Government have a lot to do to get our country back on track , and this be part of it . be good steward at home and good neighbour abroad be not mutually exclusive . we must do both , and we can do that by support the Bill . I call Jack Rankin to make his maiden speech . it give I great pleasure to make my maiden speech , and it be appropriate to do so in a debate on the Commonwealth of nation . first , I pay tribute to the maiden speech by the hon . member for Ilford South ( Jas Athwal ) . he speak passionately about the opportunity and the community that Ilford have afford he , and his commitment to his people there . I be sure that he will make a great contribution to Parliament . we share a set of value with our Commonwealth kin : a belief in the rule of law , parliamentary democracy , freedom of speech , property right , and innocent until prove guilty by a jury of our peer , all build on a share constitutional heritage . I want to fight for those principle during my time in Parliament . my Windsor constituency be at the beat heart of Parliament , because it be not just a series of beautiful town and village , although that be undoubtedly true ; it also encapsulate the glorious history of our constitution , the evolution of our parliamentary democracy and the very good of our share Commonwealth of nation . my predecessor be a son of the Commonwealth , with a ghanaian father and an english mother . Adam Afriyie come from a tough background , grow up on a council estate in Peckham , but he become a successful tech entrepreneur and the first black Conservative Member of Parliament . Adam spend his year in Parliament campaign against Heathrow ' s third runway — I will continue that campaign — as well as support many local good cause , include the child ' s charity , Sebastian ' s Action Trust . I also appreciate Adam ' s work on fintech and his role as the long serving chair of the Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology . as someone with an academic background in mathematic and physics , it be clear to I that this place need more of a quantitative and scientific approach . above all , Adam be a good man and a person I be proud to call a friend . I wish he and his family all the good for the future . Windsor ' s link to the royal family be self - evident : the Conqueror first build the castle , and the royal house proudly carry our name . but few know that the Windsor constituency be the home of monarchs long before the arrival of the Norman yoke . Old Windsor be an important palace of Saxon king , document as a defend royal manor in Edward the Confessor ' s time , but evidence suggest that there be royal connection since at least the ninth century . William the Conqueror choose the site for Windsor castle , a strategically important position high above the key medieval route to London on the River Thames . it be part of a ring of motte and bailey castle around London , each a day ' s march from the city and the next castle , allow for easy reinforcement . the first king to use Windsor castle as a royal residence be William ' s son , Henry I . perhaps he be attract by the proximity of the royal hunting forest — then Windsor forest , now Windsor Great Park in the centre of my constituency . I represent most of the community around it , include Ascot , Sunninghill and Sunningdale , where my wife Sarah and I have make our family home with our son , Edward and Christopher . Henry ' s great - grandson John be besiege by the baron in 1214 and sign Magna Carta the follow year . whether it be sign north of the river in Wraysbury or south on Runnymede meadow be lose to time . whichever the true site , both be in the Windsor constituency , thank to the most recent boundary change , and we welcome runnymede meadow into the patch , together with the Surrey village of Englefield Green and Virginia Water , as well as the east of Langley in Slough . whether Wraysbury or Runnymede , it remain undeniable that there be a propensity for there to be too much water in those place . one of the thing I will advocate for in this place be proper flood defence for Datchet , Wraysbury , Horton and Old Windsor . disgracefully , if the River Thames scheme be build as currently envisage , those village will be the only part of the Thames , from Taplow to the North sea , that remain materially undefended . what be propose as channel 1 of the River Thames scheme must be fund centrally as national strategic infrastructure . this House will hear from I again on that topic , I assure you , Madam Deputy Speaker . in the handful of week I have be here , I have already lose count of the time this place have be incorrectly refer to as the " mother of Parliaments " — a misquoting of John Bright . it be England that Bright refer to as the mother of Parliaments . in that speech , Bright be argue for what become the Reform Act of 1867 , which , for the first time , enfranchise part of the urban male working class , from which I hail . England be the mother of Parliaments because of the principle , establish in Anglo - Saxon England , that yes , we owe our allegiance to his Majesty the king — then in Old Windsor ; now in new Windsor — but within a framework that protect our ancient individual liberty , as articulate in Magna Carta . that heritage be proudly ours . the Saxon Great Councils start to be call Parliaments by the 13th century ; the principle underpin they — among other thing , that the King could only make law and raise taxation with the consent of the community of the realm — now belong to the whole Commonwealth and the wider free world . that concept — that taxation should be raise only with the consent of the community of the realm — should give the new Government pause for thought . I recommend it as a good conservative instinct . in this House , those on the Treasury Bench — the Crown — should be cautious about levy taxation , especially if punitive or excessive , without gain wide common counsel . as this new government raise taxis in breach of their manifesto commitment , my counsel would be that taxation will gain wide consent if , and only if , it lead to a material improvement in the quality of public service . that will not happen without quite radical public sector reform to drive productivity improvement , which I seriously urge the Government to consider . tax without proper consent be something that government over the year have come a cropper over — most famously the British in North America in the 18th century . I hope our american cousin may rejoin the Commonwealth one day . it be often they who remember our share constitutional heritage most keenly . the Magna Carta memorial in my constituency be erect in 1957 by the American Bar Association , which alongside we and our Commonwealth kin be the beneficiary of that great legacy . I assure the House that I will be bring its attention on many occasion to the extraordinary wealth of cultural and historical rich , tie to the history of our great country , that originate in my constituency — from the foundation of Eton college in 1440 and of Royal Holloway University by victorian social pioneer over 170 year ago , as one of the first place in Britain where woman could access high education , to the establishment of Ascot racecourse in 1711 , when Queen Anne find a flat expanse of heathland that she think would be perfect for race horse . that tradition continue over 330 year later ; I say to Labour Members and particularly to the new Ministers that it be a fantastic place for a freebie . please see my update entry in the register of interest next month . the foundation of Combermere barrack in 1796 and of Victoria barrack in 1853 make Windsor a proud double - garrison town . we owe our armed service so much for protect the legacy of which I be talk . we will remember they . of course , none of this compare to the event of 1996 , with the foundation of the great institution of Legoland . I can not give my maiden speech without turn to the house of Windsor , our british royal house and the reign house of our brother and sister in the other 14 Commonwealth realm . it give we enormous pride that King George V proclaim : " our House and Family shall be style and know as … Windsor " . it be feel inappropriate during the first world war that the royal family be call Saxe - Coburg - Gotha as London be be bomb by aircraft of the same name . it be think that Windsor sound necessarily regal and English ; I wholeheartedly agree . we have now see our fifth monarch of the house of Windsor , albeit that it be sometimes well that we forget about the second . they have all make Windsor their home , but few monarch will be more associate with Windsor than her late Majesty of bless memory , Elizabeth . our late Queen make Windsor her principal weekend retreat — indeed , she make it her home — but retreat be something that she very rarely do . her great passion be the Commonwealth . on her 21st birthday in South Africa in 1947 , she dedicate her life to the service of the Commonwealth , famously say : " I declare before you all that my whole life , whether it be long or short , shall be devoted to your service and the service of our great imperial family to which we all belong " . Didn ' t she just ? she be the live embodiment every day of the model of christian service and of the history and continuity of this country and its constitutional monarchy — the very essence of our great nation . throughout her reign , as the then Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip say on her passing , she be " the keystone in the vast arch of the british state " — [ Official Report , 9 September 2022 ; Vol . 719 , c . 499 . ] but she be more than that . she be head of state , yes , but she be also head of the nation and , more widely , the head of our family of nation . she deeply understand the role to which she have be call in the context of a millennium of constitutional development , lot of which be local to my constituency but relevant to free people the world over . I come from a much more modest background , but all of we in this House , like Windsor ' s Elizabeth the Confessor , would do well to appreciate that we be but the momentary trustee of our country . as Burke say : " society be … a contract … between those who be live , those who be dead , and those who be to be bear . " yes , we have a responsibility to our constituent today , but we also have the share inheritance of our history and our great parliamentary democracy , and we all have a duty to uphold the great tradition of our past in order to safeguard its future . I call Lillian Jones to make her maiden speech . it be a pleasure to follow the contribution of the hon . member for Windsor ( Jack Rankin ) to this debate on the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and the International Committee of the Red Cross . it do not need say how important the work of both those organisation be . I have listen to many hon . member deliver maiden speech in this House and have be strike by all their excellent contribution , but I stand before the House today with immense gratitude and a profound sense of responsibility . it be the great honour for I to have be elect to this House to represent the people of Kilmarnock and Loudoun , a place that I have call home for nearly 20 year . I have be a local councillor serve the ward of Kilmarnock West and Crosshouse for 12 of those year . I move to Kilmarnock after meet my partner Nettie , and we have be together ever since . she be my good friend and my anchor — I just don ' t know what I would do without she . I want to extend my love and my thank to my family for their everlasting support and encouragement . I be think today of my aunty June , who be only 10 year old than I be . we say goodbye to her just six day before the election , but I know she will be watch over I with my gran and Arthur . Arthur be my granda , but I fondly remember that as a child I would call he by his name , which just stick . as member can imagine , that raise curiosity among the teacher at my school , who would always inquire if Arthur be my gran ' s boyfriend , much to my gran ' s amusement . as they look down on I , I hope I make they proud . I thank my friend and colleague who give up every spare moment to help I . my friend Maureen , the Labour group leader on East Ayrshire council , be a woman like no other . she invest time and energy in I and have mentor I since my first election to East Ayrshire council in 2012 . despite her own personal challenge , she be determined to do all she could to get I here to this place and to play a huge part in my campaign . Barry , who be know affectionately as our local stato genius , keep we well drill and well informed — and , boy , do that pay off , with a 5 , 000 majority . I would not be stand here today if it be not for the contribution of those who believe in I and support I throughout this journey . I thank every one of they . I pay tribute to my immediate predecessor , Alan Brown , who be first elect to this House in 2015 and be commit to work hard for his constituent throughout his time in Parliament . I wish Alan and his family well for the future . in 1945 , Clarice Shaw be the first woman elect to this place to represent the people of Kilmarnock on a platform of job for all , industry in the service of the nation , public ownership , a welfare state from cradle to grave and a new national health service . some 57 year later , I take up a post in our national health service . I be later privileged to join a team of dedicated colleague who help to shape I into the person I be today . it be and still be an honour to have be part of the hospital at night team , which be first launch in Glasgow in 2007 , and to have forge many friendship that will last a lifetime . I be think today of my former NHS colleague ; I pay tribute to all member of the team who selflessly do their duty throughout the coronavirus pandemic and who continue to do so in sometimes very challenging circumstance . clarice be a tireless campaigner for equality , an unwavering agitator for peace and a dedicated socialist Member of Parliament . her legacy serve as a beacon of hope and inspiration for all of we who believe in the power of collective action and social justice . sadly , just day after Clarice be swear in , she become seriously ill and be unable to return to Parliament to deliver her maiden speech . in October 1946 , Clarice stand down . sadly , she die a few day later . as a work - class woman elect to this House , I reflect on Clarice Shaw ' s contribution and be inspire to carry forward her vision into today ' s world , where it be just as relevant now as in 1945 . it be a vision in which peace prevail over conflict , co - operation triumph over division and equality be not just an aspiration but a reality for every citizen — one that ensure that our national health service will be there when people need it most and for future generation . the second woman elect to represent Kilmarnock and Loudoun be Cathy Jamieson in 2010 , although by that time she have already be a parliamentarian for 11 year in the Scottish Parliament . her wealth of knowledge and experience see she appoint to the official Opposition Front Bench in 2011 as shadow Economic Secretary to the Treasury . Cathy will be a hard act to follow , but I will do my absolute good . Cathy be also arguably Kilmarnock football club ' s big fan . I be delighted to learn that the club win the 2024 well - keep war memorial competition for its satellite garden and memorial , thank to Kilmarnock ' s branch of Royal British Legion Scotland and to the club ambassador , Raymond Montgomerie . my constituency be not only famous for have the old professional football club in Scotland , or for its famous son such as Nobel peace prize winner John Boyd Orr , who be bear in Kilmaurs in 1880 , Andrew Fisher , the fifth Prime Minister of Australia , who be bear in Crosshouse in 1862 , and Sir Alexander Fleming from Darvel , who discover penicillin . this month , it may interest the House to know that in Killie we be unique : we celebrate Halloween before anyone else in the country . this year be even more unusual , because we be celebrate Halloween before the clock go back — something that can not happen in the rest of the country . on the last Friday of October , Killieween come to life , support our local economy , with wean young and old in fancy dress out in the street trick - or - treat . over recent year , it have become a favourite date in the calendar for community across the constituency . it be fantastic to see so many school , volunteer , business and organisation such as Kilmarnock community fire station put effort , energy and pride into make Halloween such an exciting time for so many child across the town and village of my constituency . I be shape by the people who have love , mentor , take a chance on and believe in I . I stand before the House today as a proud public servant with a combine 34 year of public service . be in the service of people be when I be at my good . this be who I be . I know that my life and work experience will serve I well in the role of Member for Kilmarnock and Loudoun . I call David Mundell . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a great honour to serve under your stewardship for the first time , and to follow the hon . member for Kilmarnock and Loudoun ( Lillian Jones ) . I live in her constituency in Scotland ' s Moscow for a number of year . it be not quite a socialist republic at the time , but my child attend Fenwick primary school and I have many happy memory of the constituency . I be inspire by the hon . member for Ilford South ( Jas Athwal ) , whose story of the opportunity that be available to grasp should be inspiring to everyone who come to this country . I very much enjoy the maiden speech of my hon . friend the Member for Windsor ( Jack Rankin ) : it be a tour de force on part of english history with which I be not fully familiar , although I do not know whether that will help he in his service on the Scottish Affairs Committee . one thing we have in common be that as a new Member of the House I be require to serve on that Committee : I be on it for five year and it be indeed a learn experience . in speak in favour of the Bill , I will concentrate my remark on the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association . I be particularly pleased that the Minster be take the Bill forward , because I know he have play a positive part in the working of the association and have be part of many previous delegation . I have also have that opportunity : like the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) , for South Antrim ( Robin Swann ) and for Southgate and Wood Green ( Bambos Charalambous ) , I be pleased to have be elect to the executive of the cpa , which hope to meet for the first time in its new guise this afternoon after the debate have conclude . it be extremely important that we understand the significance that Commonwealth country place on this change . it be all very well to have a discussion about the procedural nicety , but this issue be impact on the United Kingdom ' s reputation within the Commonwealth . I have twice lead delegation to South Africa , and this issue be top of the list of issue to be discuss by the Speaker of the South African Parliament . when the Speaker of the Ghanaian Parliament visit this country , it be the top issue on their agenda . it impede the discussion of other issue that we might want to raise , so it be vital for that impediment to discussion to be remove . as one or two other speaker have touch on , particularly the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme , malign force be at work . when we be in South Africa , we be attack by the Economic Freedom Fighters party as neo - colonialist . the structure of the international Commonwealth Parliamentary Association be give as one reason we be neo - colonialist , because the organisation be not a full stand international organisation , but an english charity . People use that to further their argument . this Bill be not just a nice thing to do , but vital to ensure that we can be fully participative and respect in discussion . if we want to raise difficult issue — there be difficult issue to raise in the Commonwealth , in particular the assault on the LGBT community in many Commonwealth country — we can not then be confront with , " what be you do about this issue that be important to we ? " it be important that we be take the Bill forward , and undertaking be give at the last Commonwealth Parliamentary Association international conference . I join other in pay tribute to colleague . Ian Liddell - Grainger have step in to be the head of the international Commonwealth Parliamentary Association , have be the chair of the cpa UK when the incumbent pass away suddenly . Ian , as those who know he will appreciate , could have be a diplomat in another life . he be able to assure those present at the summit that something would be do in the UK and that the change would be make . Dame Maria Miller , in her usual tenacious way , seek to do everything possible to bring those measure forward . I be personally disappointed that the Bill be not in the last government ' s King ' s Speech , because it be consider too niche , whereas various thing that I or my constituent would have consider niche do appear . however , Dame Maria pursue the Bill through other channel and get so very close to it be enact . I be delighted that the new Government have take it forward and that it get through the House of Lords without undue difficulty . although there be other issue to be raise around the Bill , I hope that it can complete a straightforward parliamentary passage , because not only do we have the Commonwealth leader event in Samoa , but in two week ' time we have the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association conference in New South Wales . it will be very important — in particular to I , as I have be task with report to the conference what be happen with the Bill — that I can report positively that the Bill have pass second Reading today , that we have hear across the Chamber that it have widespread and cross - party support , and that it have the Government ' s impetus behind it to deliver Royal Assent as soon as possible . that be the message that I hope and believe I can take to the conference . the final point I would like to make to the Minister be that the cpa UK branch be an asset to the Government . the Government , and in particular the fcdo , need to work more closely with the branch , because mps on delegation can be a soft power source that the Government can not be . many member who have be on delegation find that post , consulate , embassy and high commission welcome their visit , because MPs be able to raise issue or ask question , or they themselves be able to ask question or raise issue , that they would not otherwise be able to do if it be a formal ministerial event . go forward , I ask they to work with our cpa UK branch , so that we can work as effectively as we can on behalf of the United Kingdom and deliver some of those soft power benefit . with the leave of the House , and with thank to all member who have contribute today , I want to reiterate the opposition ' s support for the Bill . I also want to repeat my tribute to my right hon . friend the former Member for Basingstoke , Dame Maria Miller , for her unending work to promote the Bill , and to my noble Friends Baroness Anelay and Lord Ahmad for their respective role . it shine a positive light on this place that a private Member ' s Bill can be introduce , support by a Conservative Government and then reintroduce by a new Labour Government . I hope we will see it complete its passage into law in the same spirit of co - operation . turn to today ' s debate , it be a delight to serve opposite the Minister of State at the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , the hon . member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) . he have a genuine passion for the Commonwealth and a commitment to build friendship across the world . I be sure he will continue to do all that he can to build those friendship and ensure that the Commonwealth go from success to success . the Chair of the International Development Committee , the hon . member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) , set out not only the value but the joy that the cpa bring . she be absolutely right that the icrc be an organisation of hope , and that its loss — those it have lose in the course of its work — demonstrate just how important it be and how important it be that we support its work . I also thank she for remind I that I , too , should thank it for all the submission it make to the Foreign Affairs Committee when I be the Chair of that Committee over the last few year . the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Esher and Walton ( Monica Harding ) , have an encyclopaedic knowledge of the icrc . I have to say that I learn many thing I be not aware of before the debate , so I thank she for that . the speech by my friend the hon . member for Southgate and Wood Green ( Bambos Charalambous ) demonstrate the importance of the cpa ' s work . he be a representation of the importance of what the cpa do for this Chamber , which be bring people together from across the Chamber to build friendship that matter . the Chamber can often appear combative and to some extent rude , frankly , in the way that we speak to each other , but behind the scene it be vital that we have the relationship that enable we to get thing do . I be grateful to count he as a very good friend . turn to my right hon . friend the Member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) , who I be sure be rush back in a frenzy to the Chamber from her meeting with the cpa , it be quite impressive for she to make the same argument so cogently for a third time and to find a way to structure they so very differently . I pay tribute to her work on modern - day slavery , which be exceptional and demonstrate the importance of the cpa ' s work . she have make a demonstrable difference to the way Commonwealth country around the world have tackle modern - day slavery within their own country . I congratulate the hon . member for Ilford South ( Jas Athwal ) on make his maiden speech . it be quite clear that he have a passion for the home that his community give he . he have clear aspiration for the community he serve , and I wish he every success in deliver on those aspiration . my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) , the former Chair of the Intelligence and Security Committee , set out his concern for the freedom and protection of the Committee staff . Scrutiny be always at the forefront of his mind . I be sure that he be hear by the Minister , although I be sure that his staff from the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office in the Box be even more excited to hear the news that there will be an amendment in Committee . the Opposition will review his amendment very closely — he know how closely I hold the importance of scrutiny in my own heart . it be very interesting to hear the challenge that he face as the Committee Chair in the last few year . the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) speak of the Commonwealth family , although I suspect that perhaps in prepare for today ' s debate he accept a challenge to try to get " kangaroo " into Hansard . I congratulate he on do just that . the maiden speech by my hon . friend the Member for Windsor ( Jack Rankin be typical in the tribute that it pay to his predecessor . it be clear that he will be a passionate campaigner for civil liberty and low taxis during his time in this House , but I gently suggest that he may find his declare campaign to prevent a third runway at Heathrow at odd with the cpa ' s own demand on the airport , which be rather significant . he may have to come to term with that before he apply for any future delegation . the hon . member for Kilmarnock and Loudoun ( Lillian Jones ) — I apologise if that be not accurately pronounce — show heartfelt gratitude to those who have support she to come to this place . she bring the history of her constituency to life in her maiden speech . my right hon . friend the Member for Dumfriesshire , Clydesdale and Tweeddale ( David Mundell ) demonstrate so well the courtesy of this House . it be so important that , as we move forward as a new Parliament , we do not forget those small courtesy , whether it be pay tribute to a predecessor or recognise the contribution of other member . I thank he for do that . he also raise the importance of the cpa when it come to the challenge and disagreement that we have within that family , because like all family within the Commonwealth , there be disagreement . my right hon . friend have be vocal in his effort , particularly on global LGBT right . I have be able to use the cpa family as an opportunity to flag my concern when there have be attack on LGBT right globally , and about woman ' s right and the way in which national security legislation sometimes can be pervert or misuse for the interest of individual . although we talk about the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association in such a positive light , be an important vehicle for challenge within our own community . he also set out the importance of the Bill to the Commonwealth . I congratulate he on his re - election , and when he go to the Commonwealth meeting hopefully he will be able to confirm that the Bill have pass second Reading — that seem to be the will of the House in today ' s discussion , although I would never prejudge any vote — and that it be make progress through the Houses . the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and the International Committee of the Red Cross do vital work . the cpa further the aim of the Commonwealth charter to the development of free and democratic society . it allow we to share good practice across border , learn from one another , connect with likeminde colleague in the Commonwealth — and sometimes not so likeminded — and together strengthen our democratic resilience in an increasingly volatile world . as the Chair of the International Development Committee say , the icrc be often the last line of humanity reach the most vulnerable when other can not , and administrate lifesave aid . each be staff and support by hard - work and upright people , try their good to make a positive impact and etch out a bright future from our stormy present . the Bill may seem to address minor issue in comparison to some that pass through this House . none the less , it be vital not just for we but for our Commonwealth partner around the world , many of whom I be sure will be watch today ' s debate . the legal challenge in it strengthen the foundation on which the work of both the cpa and the icrc rely . the Bill solve two problem — though my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East will attempt to make it solve three — but its real value be in the many opportunity it will create . it will be up to the Government to grip those challenge with both hand . they will have our support because the opposition will always stand steadfast behind the Commonwealth and the Commonwealth family . with the leave of the House , let I first say that it be a pleasure to see you in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker — I think for the first time since I have be in the Chamber . we have be opponent at some time and ally at other , but it be a pleasure to see you , and I welcome you to your place . I thank member from both side of the House for their insightful and valuable contribution . it be clear that the work and value of both organisation be highly regard by all member and that the legislation have support — I hope ; I do not want to prejudge a possible vote . as I note early , this be not the first time that the House have consider form of this legislation , and we be all pleased to see it back again . on Second reading in the other place , my noble Friend Baroness Chapman say that she think the Bill be the first to receive a second reading in this Parliament under the new government ; I think it be now the first Bill to receive a second reading in both Houses . could it be the first to gain his Majesty ' s signature ? I wonder . I certainly hope that before the conference I can provide the answer the shadow Minister be look for . I thank the shadow Minister for her kind word . I welcome she and the opposition ' s warm support as well as her tribute to the past proponent of the Bill . I agree with her comment about the Commonwealth , particularly when she speak about the friendship and the good practice that we can share , and with her tribute to his Majesty the King . a number of member reference her late Majesty Queen Elizabeth II and her decade of service ; her particular engagement with the Commonwealth be recognise by all side . the shadow Minister also pay tribute to the work of the icrc and its staff , particularly on Nagorno - Karabakh . the shadow Minister ask a number of question , which I will try to answer . if I do not get they all , I will be happy to write to she . she ask specifically about the funding to the icrc . his Majesty ' s government provide £ 48 million each year as core unrestricted funding and be on track to provide at least an additional £ 80 million this year in direct contribution to the icrc ' s work around the world . she and other right hon . and hon . member raise the importance of the fcdo ' s work with the cpa . I certainly hope that all our high commission and embassy will provide a warm welcome to delegation and support the work ; the point about the benefit in soft power and about represent this place in its broad sense , with all our expertise and tradition , be well make . like other right hon . and hon . member , the hon . Lady make much wide point about the Commonwealth . we attach great importance to our membership of the Commonwealth , which be a vibrant network of 2 . 5 billion people unite in the pursuit of freedom , peace and prosperity . we fundamentally believe that a modern , cohesive and effective Commonwealth can play an important role in deliver progress on UK priority across the globe — whether in the sphere of democracy , common value , defend the right of woman , girl and minority community , deal with climate change and the energy transition , or the particular challenge face by small island state . we will work on all those key issue together . there be also the issue of growth and economic development ; the Commonwealth ' s 56 member include some of the world ' s fast grow economy and it be vital that we partner with they for their and our global benefit . importantly , those issue , among many other , will be discuss at the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting in Samoa . I also pay tribute to my good friend the Chair of the International Development Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) . she pay particular tribute to the International Committee of the Red Cross ; I particularly recognise what she say about the loss of its worker in current conflict as well as many other in the past . all of we across the House salute the resilience and bravery of those who work in such try circumstance . I welcome the hon . member for Esher and Walton ( Monica Harding ) to her place and thank she for her party ' s support for the Bill . she rightly point to the example of other country and why we need to follow suit . I assure she of the new Government ' s commitment to international law , the multilateral system , humanitarian principle and the sustainable development goal ; my noble Friend Lord Collins and other will be speak about those matter in due course . the hon . Lady also rightly reference the recent speech make by the Minister for Development . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Southgate and Wood Green ( Bambos Charalambous ) on his election and all those elect to the cpa executive . I thank he for his work and support for the Bill . the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) have have to attend the important cpa event ; she rightly pay tribute to Maria Miller and Ian Liddell - Grainger and highlight the important work on modern slavery . I wish she well on her panel today . like I , she be passionate about the personal relationship that we can develop . the right hon . Lady and other mention the importance of the cpa in relation to devolved administration . ironically , the first cpa conference that I attend be in the Senedd , in my own constituency of Cardiff South and Penarth , and bring together representative of devolve Administrations along with UK and other Members of Parliament — as well as representative of the overseas territory , for which I now have responsibility . that learning , sharing , friendship and understanding of our different way of work as well as our common challenge be hugely important . we have hear some fantastic maiden speech today . first , we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Ilford South ( Jas Athwal ) a passionate account of his journey from Punjab to Ilford , which he describe as a place of promise . he speak of the community and the home that he have find and contribute to , and the passion that he clearly feel for his diverse and dynamic community , which have many similarity to my own , be very inspiring . I also note his pledge on health and the Government ' s commitment on NHS reform , and his campaign for King George hospital . I thank he for that excellent maiden speech . the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) always make important point . I hear very clearly what he have to say , but , as I take a key interest in these matter as well , I would gently stress the point that , as he know , the Clerks have particularly strong rule relate to the scope of Bills , and the amendment that he suggest may not be in the scope of this Bill . obviously , it be for the Clerks to opine on the matter . I have hear the right hon . Gentleman ' s remark and will certainly take they away , but there be clearly a stark difference between the Intelligence and Security Committee situation that he describe and the position of the cpa and the icrc . may I urge the Minister , when the Government be consider the political dimension of what be be propose , to engage in consultation with Lord West of Spithead , his own party ' s representative on the previous ISC , and also with the new Lord Beamish , formerly Kevan Jones of this parish , who likewise be firmly committed to the sort of measure that I be propose ? the right hon . Gentleman have mention some well - respect people — my noble friend — and I will ensure that colleague across Government hear what he have say , and also his request for the ISC to meet the Prime Minister , although , as he will know , the Prime Minister ' s diary be incredibly stretch . my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) take the opportunity to make a lengthy speech . the whip will probably teach he not to do that too often , but he make a fantastic contribution include some thoughtful insight on the importance of the Commonwealth and its future , particularly in a world where we be contest with autocratic and repressive state that seek a very different future for the world . I believe that the Commonwealth provide a set of value and principle on which we can all unite . he speak of his own family history , and also note the Commonwealth contribution in the two world war , which we need to remember regularly , especially as we approach the season of remembrance . the hon . member for Windsor ( Jack Rankin ) make another excellent maiden speech . like many other member , I know his constituency well — I have sing at Royal Holloway ' s Windsor building , I have visit the field at Runnymede , and I recently attend a conference on Ukraine in Windsor Castle itself — and I know that it be home to many and varied activity from the cultural to the historic . he speak of his passion for physics . I want to be a physicist myself until my english teacher tell I to go into politic , and the contribution that science and mathematic can make to the House be key . the royal history of the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency be , of course , well know . I welcome he to the House , and thank he for an excellent speech . my hon . friend the Member for Kilmarnock and Loudoun ( Lillian Jones ) pay a heartfelt tribute to the family , friend and campaigner who bring she to this place , along with her own clear commitment to public service . she also pay warm tribute to her predecessor , include Clarice Shaw and Cathy Jamieson . I get to know Cathy Jamieson well when I first come to this place 12 year ago . she ensure that I be give a tour around " Killie " football club at one point when I be in her constituency . my hon . friend may not know this , but there be a direct connection between her constituency and mine : Loudoun Square be at the heart of Butetown . the name denote the strong link between the coal and shipping industry of Cardiff and the west coast of Scotland . that connection be deep and abide . my hon . Friend speak with passion about the huge community asset in her constituency and the strength of that community , and I wish she well in this place . last but not least , the right hon . member for Dumfriesshire , Clydesdale and Tweeddale ( David Mundell ) make some very important remark and some kind remark about I , and I congratulate he on his election to the cpa ' s executive committee . the significance of this change be understand by the Government , which be why we want to get the Bill through . I be glad that he highlight some of the challenge we see around the Commonwealth , particularly those face the LGBT + community . he know that I take those issue very seriously , and I have take advantage of my time with the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association to raise such concern in the past . these be issue that I and other Ministers take very seriously . I will conclude by say that I be well aware not only of the excellent work that the icrc do , but of its importance to the Commonwealth . my own constituency have people from Cyprus , Malta , south Asia and Africa . it be vital that we continue those link at the parliamentary level and work together , and we Ministers be commit to do so . I thank everybody for their contribution today . I look forward to see this Bill progress — rapidly , I hope — and I commend it to the House . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and International Committee of the Red Cross ( Status ) Bill [ LORDS ] ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and International Committee of the Red Cross ( Status ) Bill [ Lords ] : committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Public Bill Committee ( 2 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on Wednesday 13 November 2024 . ( 3 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . consideration and Third Reading ( 4 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which those proceeding be commence . ( 5 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding on consideration and Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) question agree to . Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and International Committee of the Red Cross ( Status ) Bill [ LORDS ] ( money ) king ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and International Committee of the Red Cross ( Status ) Bill [ Lords ] , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of any amount refund in respect of any tax or duty in accordance with arrangement make under the Act . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) question agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Sanctions that the Russia ( Sanctions ) ( EU Exit ) ( Amendment ) ( no . 4 ) Regulations 2024 ( SI , 2024 , no . 900 ) , date 4 September 2024 , a copy of which be lay before this House on 5 September , be approve . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Energy that the draft contract for difference ( Electricity Supplier Obligations ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 30 July , be approve . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Defence that the draft Armed Forces Act 2006 ( Continuation ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 20 May , in the last Session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) question agree to . Postal Voting at General Elections Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) what a delectable , delicious prospect we have before we : a two - and - a - half - hour Adjournment debate on postal voting . if the whip think that the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) make a long speech , I be tempt to say , " you ain ' t see nothing yet ! " first , may I welcome the Minister to her place ? I assure she from the start that this be not an attack Adjournment debate ; it really be design to be helpful to she and colleague . I seek to secure this debate have reflect on the operation of postal voting during the general election , which I do through the prism of be the then Minister in charge of election policy . just for the record , I note that Mr Speaker have kindly invite I to join the Speaker ' s Committee on the Electoral Commission , and I have accept . if the House will indulge I for just a moment , I want to put on record one of those thing that often do not get note when Ministers be usher out of office by the electorate . this place , all of we who have be return to it , all who stand in the election and represent their party interest across the United Kingdom , and all our electorate owe a debt of thank to the election team at the former Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities — I see one or two of they in the Officials Box . the team work flat out to deliver the policy that come from the Elections Act 2022 , and they have the local election in May and then the general election shortly thereafter . they work tirelessly to support the delivery of those election , and I put on record my thank to they . I also thank David Gold and his team at the Royal Mail , and all the people at the Royal Mail who strove so hard to deliver the postal vote and all the other literature and documentation that support the delivery of a general election . David and his team be more than generous with their time and , during the election campaign , as issue be come to the fore that they be try to manage and we be try to raise as the Government , they make themselves available on a daily basis , if necessary , and certainly on a weekly basis to make sure that the ship of state be still afloat . it would be remiss of I not to thank the Association of Electoral Administrators and all those in local government who keep the electoral register and deal with the paperwork and the logistic , which certainly become more complex and demanding , as the Minister will doubtless have be brief by her official , as a result of the change to the rule and regulation in the Elections Act . I have the great honour of speak at the annual conference early this year — I be sure that the Minister will be invite to do it ; if she can , I urge she to — and they be a great bunch of woman and man who work tirelessly in our town hall and county hall to make sure that election be deliver . of course , we should also thank the Electoral Commission , which be the guardian watchdog that keep an eye over all of we to make sure that the rule be adhere to . our democracy work only when and because the defeated and their supporter — not the victor — accept the result . we see the danger of that in the previous american presidential election , and just how close we can get to anarchy and a complete collapse of confidence , the ramification of which be still be feel in the States , when the people who lose say , " we be rob . the system be against we . " we have be hugely lucky in this country that all our election result have be beyond challenge and have be accept by the victor and the defeat , and that the legitimacy of those who have be choose to govern have be accept and agree , but we can not rest on our laurel . we can not presume that just because that be how it have always be , that be how it will always be , and that be the spur that prompt I to apply for this Adjournment debate . my message to the Minister be that although 2029 seem a long way away , in governance and organisational term it be effectively tomorrow . the Government and the House need to think about whether and how any change be to be deliver to the way that postal voting operate , such as through amendment to the Elections Act or statutory instrument , to ensure that the electorate accept the legitimacy of the result . the next general election will not be fight on the same franchise that we have this year . we have an age population , so it be a legitimate presumption that there will be a high demand for postal vote as people get old . there be also the potential to increase the franchise by give the vote to 16 year old , which could increase future demand for postal vote , and I understand that proposal may be in train about franchise right for EU citizen , which would create another demand . if all the newly enfranchise overseas voter have register to vote who be hitherto exempt because of the 15 - year cut - off point , who would by definition be seek a postal vote or a proxy vote , the totality of additional voter come on to the roll — I be give this figure from memory — would have be about 3 million . I do not know what percentage of that 3 million get on to the register and have a vote ; the Electoral Commission ' s report about the operation of the election will be publish in November . as sure as egg be egg , though , as time go by — their legitimacy to vote be accept by my then shadow , the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) , so there will be no change in policy there — one can only presume that a great percentage of those 3 million will apply for a vote as their knowledge and understanding of their ability to secure one grow . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I be tempt to say that this Adjournment debate would not be an Adjournment debate — it would fail the Trade Descriptions Act — unless I give way to the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . I commend the hon . gentleman for bring this debate forward . he be absolutely right to bring this issue to the Floor of the House for consideration by the Minister . I would like to make a helpful contribution . he be very knowledgeable in relation to Northern Ireland . we have have a postal vote system for some time , but there be a problem at the last election . when people be take ill suddenly , the doctor in the hospital could right away send a letter , and those people be accept for a postal vote . however , those in their late 70 and 80 who be infirm and perhaps not so mobile be not able to get postal vote even though they need they , because for some unknown reason , their GPs take a decision not to sign their form for postal vote . to I , that be absolutely ludicrous . if you be elderly and infirm and not able to get out , you should get a postal vote . there should be no two - tier status for those with postal vote . I certainly agree with the hon . Gentleman that all those who be entrust with the discharge and delivery of our election — our police , our medical certifier and other clearly play a part — should play an active and engage part . it should not be an option to opt out ; this should just be an accepted part of the job . I will mention Northern Ireland specifically in a moment or so . I want to give the House some fact provide by the Royal Mail , which I think be of interest to put this issue into scope and scale . at the general election just go , on 4 July , the Royal Mail deliver more postal vote and candidate mail than in any previous general election . postal vote be up by 50 % and candidate literature be up by 30 % in comparison with 2019 — and that be just your election literature , Madam Deputy Speaker ! the Royal Mail deliver 50 . 8 million poll card , 7 . 26 million postal vote and 184 million candidate leaflet . it do sweep of all its 37 mail centre and 1 , 200 delivery office to ensure that all the postal vote that have go into the system be deliver to the count , to make sure that those vote be count . on election day itself , 70 , 000 postal vote be handle by the Royal Mail across the United Kingdom to be deliver . that be a huge number . this be the challenge that I set for the Minister . I be not look for the de facto answer today , but I would like an assurance that it be on the radar and people be think about it . we know full well that the Royal Mail be go through a period of change . I think we feel this particularly acutely in rural area . it be by definition , because of email and everything else , handle few and few letter , and staff number reflect that . one of the joy of the 2015 general election , as far as Royal Mail be concern , be the fact that we still have the fix - term Parliaments Act 2011 and it could structure additional recruitment to deliver the demand — and that demand be far less than that which prevail at the moment — because it know with certainty when the general election be go to be hold . the snap election of 2017 and 2019 , and the perhaps early than expect 2024 election , catch the Royal Mail napping , because it have to put on a sudden spurt to recruit people to deliver all the piece of paper that need to be deliver . in the absence of the fix - term Parliaments Act , that issue will remain with we . I make the point to the Royal Mail that in fact only one election be control by the fixed - term Parliaments Act . every other election have always be at the whim or the prerogative of the Prime Minister when the House be dissolve . however , in compare previous with future general election , we must consider the change in volume that the Royal Mail be handle . I mention rural area . I be still await the delivery of election address 2 ; I be sure that I have exciting word to say , but it never come through my letterbox . last week , a wonderful bundle of 12 piece of mail be deliver in the one - delivery - a - week service that my part of North Dorset be currently experience . there will not be a Member of Parliament , urban or rural — though this apply particularly to rural area — who have not have constituent contact they after the general election to say that they do not receive their postal vote in time or could not get it back in time . that take I to a point that require possibly secondary legislation and certainly some think : the cut - off point between the close of nomination and everything go to the printer , and everything get bundle up in the postal vote pack at the same time as people be try to update the register , check that polling station be available , recruit polling clerk and so on . it be all incredibly tight . it be incredibly tight this year , but the system just about cope . I be anxious to future - proof , give the increase demand that I mention at the start of my remark . the Government could go back to the old system , thus put the postal vote genie back in the bottle , with the tight criterion that use to prevail . I do not believe that that will happen , and I do not think it would be desirable . we could introduce digital voting for overseas voter , but that have the potential for fraud and hacking . it also open up the Pandora ' s box of digital voting for everyone in the United Kingdom . there be no easy solution . there be the tightness of the timetable and the capacity of the Royal Mail — not its good will ; the Royal Mail be honour and delight to have the contract that the Government give it . David Gold and his team be conscious of the pivotal role that their organisation play in deliver the general election , and always prepare to say so up front . the Electoral Commission note , in a briefing that I receive today in advance of the debate , for which I be grateful , that several people experience problem in voting by post , such as delay in receive their postal ballot . its research show that the vast majority of postal vote be deliver promptly , and that there be no widespread or systemic issue . however , there be voter in the UK and abroad who could not vote because of the late arrival of postal vote . problem be prevalent in Scotland , which give we a lot of concern because the election coincide with the school holiday there and in Northern Ireland , which create additional pressure for the postal voting system . I look forward , as I be sure that the Minister do , to the Electoral Commission ' s report on postal voting , which will be publish next month . something need to be do to give we all confidence that the result of the general election in 2029 — probably — will have the same legitimacy as those hold in 2024 , 2019 and previously . there will be some challenge . although our constituent be not force to vote , they have a legitimate expectation , as part of their contract with the state , that their vote will be count if it have be cast . I do not have the answer for the Minister . that be her job , not mine . she know that the system need to be reliable , robust , easy , seamless and trust , because all of we , irrespective of party or geography , be unite in be motivate by one guide principle : the result , whatever it may be , have to command authority through the electorate ' s trust in it . if it do not — if people can cry foul , say that the system be load against they , or that it be too creaky and analogue for a digital age — then faith in our democratic system erode . when faith erode , participation be likely to decline ; that be when extreme always flourish , and I know that his Majesty ' s Government and the Minister will not want that . I look forward to hear what the Minister have to say . for what it be worth , have be the Minister over the election period , I would be happy to do anything I can with she — through conversation , et cetera — to ensure that we get this right . my hon . friend be make an interesting and powerful speech . he refer to the number of item deliver by Royal Mail , and say that it be go through a period of change . do we need to look for alternative to Royal Mail because of the major change that be take place ? if my hon . friend mean alternative to foot on the pavement , then very possibly . the benefit of use the Royal Mail be that culturally it be aware of the seriousness of the task it be ask to discharge , and it have a very good heritage of do so . I would not want to throw the baby out with the bathwater . I sympathise with the Royal Mail because , in essence , it be give five week to recruit hundred of people across the country to learn the round and deliver stuff . those people also have to be vet to ensure that they be not politically partial , so that my leaflet do not end up in a hedge while everybody else ' s end up deliver through people ' s letterboxe . those be important issue . there be a tendency to rush off into the commercial sector , but I would not do that . of course , there be way to ensure vetting , but the authority and imprimatur of Royal Mail put it at a distinct advantage . I know that it want to continue to undertake the task , not just because the contract it have with the Minister and the Department be commercially attractive , but because it see itself as be part of the democratic fabric and network that sustain the election . I could have wait until 2027 to raise these issue , but then the Minister could have say , " the hon . member for North Dorset make some very valid point , but he will know that there be no time in the legislative timetable to address they . we will just have to try and muddle through . " the Minister have at least a few year to talk to the Parliamentary Business and Legislation Cabinet Committee , her Whip and the Leader of the House , and assess whether tweak and change need to be make to election cut - off date and timetable . I will not labour the point any far , but the electoral process need to be robust and the outcome must be trust by all our citizen , irrespective of whether they vote or how they vote . I thank the former Minister , the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) , for secure the debate and bring the very important topic of election to the attention of the House . I particularly welcome the expertise and experience he bring to the discussion , which be helpfully take place at the beginning of the Parliament . as he point out , in the previous Government he be Minister for election . the effective run of our electoral process be the foundation of our democracy , and it be right that we carefully monitor and review all aspect of delivery to identify emerge issue and area for improvement . like the hon . Gentleman , I express my gratitude to all those who work tirelessly to deliver the recent general election , include return officer , electoral registration officer and their team across the country . this be an important debate in the context of an election that be deliver effectively , and in which voter could exercise their right freely . the country have collective confidence in the result . although there will always be lesson to be identify and improvement to be make , the success of the poll should not be take for grant or go unacknowledged . I also thank the wide sector that support the system — the printer , the supplier , the Royal Mail , the police , the Electoral Commission and , of course , the hon . gentleman for his tireless work . he deserve great credit for effectively marshal Government resource to aid the delivery of this complex operation . the Government be aware of the report that arise in the medium of postal voting delay at the recent general election and the point that the hon . Member have make . although the vast majority of postal vote be deliver successfully , it be perhaps not surprising in an operation of this scale and complexity that a proportion of postal vote should encounter delay . those delay happen despite the work do by the Minister and other ahead of the general election . that be the case in previous election , too . official work closely with the Royal Mail and return officer to support the resolution of the issue as quickly and effectively as possible . none the less , any instance of an elector be unable to vote due to delay or error in the system be deeply regrettable , and we need to take step to address the root cause . postal voting , as the hon . Member point out , have become increasingly popular ; there be a general trend towards more of the electorate choose this voting option . at the 2019 general election , more than 8 million postal vote be issue , and report suggest that the figure for 2024 be significantly high . that put printing and delivery system under strain , especially when national poll and election be call at short notice . the issue arise in 2024 also have to be see against the backdrop of boundary change . we recognise that no system will be perfect at all time , but it be clear from the volume of incident , and from feedback from the election sector and elector themselves , that there be major strain on the system , and improvement will need to be make . we will carefully assess the postal voting process in our wide review of electoral conduct and registration process , which the Government have already begin . we will work closely with stakeholder across the sector to gather their feedback , analysis and idea . I be very grateful to the former Minister for his offer of assistance . this be an incredibly important matter , and I be very keen to make sure that we draw on his expertise and work . the Electoral Commission will publish its final report on the general election later this year , and we will carefully consider its finding and recommendation . I be very grateful to the hon . Lady , not just for what she be say about the issue , but for her very kind word . she have make a former Minister blush . in her conversation with the sector — she know that those be vital conversation — will she overlay the project figure for elector in the next election , or will she use the 2024 figure ? clearly , if the change that the Government be suggest be deliver , the franchise will be large . that be an important point on which I would like clarity . I guess I probably know the answer . we will look at these issue in the round . the hon . Member have make important point about the growth in the sector , and I shall come on to that . as I have say , we will look at the finding of the Electoral Commission report when they arrive . once we have complete our review , we will bring forward firm proposal for improvement to our electoral system , and I look forward to discuss they with member in due course . the hon . Gentleman express other concern . we recognise the important work that Royal Mail have carry out . we will need to look at that in the context of Royal Mail ' s parent company and a potential takeover , and consider any wide implication , to make sure that the system be robust and that there be appropriate support , not only so that Royal Mail can learn for future election , and improve on what be do in recent election , but so that resource be in place and we continue to maintain confidence in the system . the hon . Gentleman make an important point about rural area as well . those factor need to be consider , along with other point he make . the hon . Gentleman make important point about an age population and demographic change , as well as young voter and the increase popularity of some way of voting . work need to take into account change in behaviour and voting pattern . as I say , I look forward to work with he on those important issue . the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) speak about Northern Ireland and make check . the Northern Ireland Office have hear of GPs not sign off postal vote , but that have never be back by specific evidence . we will , however , take that issue into account and look into it , along with any other barrier face those who need or wish to vote with a postal ballot . let I say , in the spirit of consensus in which the hon . member for North Dorset introduce the debate and make his speech , that I look forward to work closely with he . I thank he for secure this important debate , and other member for their intervention , and for contribute their insight and expertise . the Government consider the effective run of election to be of paramount importance . it be fundamental to trust and confidence in our democracy . as we announce early this month , we be review carefully electoral conduct and registration process . once the review be complete , we will bring forward firm proposal for change where they be necessary . I very much look forward to share those proposal with Members , and to work with the hon . member for North Dorset . question put and agree to . House adjourn .