Oral Answers to Questions Northern Ireland the Secretary of State be ask — Restoration of Power Sharing what recent discussion he have have with party leader on the restoration of power sharing in Northern Ireland . what recent progress he have make on the restoration of political institution in Northern Ireland . what step his Department plan to take to help restore power sharing in Northern Ireland . what recent discussion he have have with party leader on the restoration of power sharing in Northern Ireland . it will not have escape your notice , Mr Speaker , that four year ago , on 11 January , the Northern Ireland Assembly reform . the First Minister effectively collapse the institution and power sharing by resign on 3 February 2022 . behind these question be a desire for the return of power sharing and the Northern Ireland Executive — a desire that I very much share , hence my most recent discussion with the leader of most of the political party that take place in Hillsborough on Monday , when we discuss the very many matter relate to this goal . negotiation with the Democratic Unionist party have be ongoing for quite some time , and they have not yet result in the restoration of the Executive . what do the Secretary of State think the DUP be look for ? I can not answer for the DUP , and would never seek to do so , but behind all this be the concern that it have about the Northern Ireland protocol as we leave the European Union and how , as a consequence , good be gradually be remove from Northern Ireland ' s supermarket shelf — a visible sign that Northern Ireland be be pull away from the United Kingdom ' s sphere of influence and into the european sphere . I believe the Windsor framework set that straight . I very much welcome the Secretary of State ' s commitment to a £ 3 . 3 billion financial package . however , we be seemingly at an impasse . he will be aware that there be a groundswell of opinion that believe element of the package should be release to address the ongoing crisis in our public service and , in particular , public sector pay pressure . will he consider release some of that money to address public sector pay ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question and , indeed , for the way in which he and his party have conduct themselves in the talk to try to restore the Executive . the UK Government put an extremely fair and generous package for a restore executive , worth £ 3 . 3 billion , on the table before Christmas . the money that Northern Ireland civil servant and I have available be from the budget pass in this place in the last year . I be recently in County Kildare with the Minister of State and the british - Irish Parliamentary Assembly , work to build understanding between the two country . we hear from Irish Ministers and the ambassador about the impact of the lack of a function Northern Ireland Assembly . bear that in mind , and the struggle that we know people be have in Northern Ireland with their bill , potential strike action and all kind of issue , can the Secretary of State say a bit more about what he be do , and about the meeting and conversation he be have , to work at pace to try to get a solution ? I thank the hon . Lady both for her interest and for the sentiment behind her question . a huge amount be happen , include meeting galore with all the political party in Northern Ireland , and especially the Democratic Unionist party , because it be the DUP that I need to get on board so that the Executive can be restore . the hon . Lady say " at pace " , and we will happily work at whatever pace we can , but it be slightly determine by our interlocutor . the current industrial action be due to hard - press public servant feel that they be at the end of their tether . would it not be well if the Assembly be function normally , so that this could be resolve as soon as possible ? yes , the hon . Lady be exactly right . there be a fair and generous £ 3 . 3 billion package on the table for a restore Executive to use for this purpose and many other . as everyone involve in Northern Ireland politic understand , there be a need to transform public service in Northern Ireland , and this package would help to do that too . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I commend my right hon . friend for his effort to try to restore the Assembly and the Executive with a big offer . be it not right that , be direct rule to be contemplate , we would now need primary legislation follow the St Andrews agreement ? the political reality be that it would mean huge political pressure on all of we here , not only from within our United Kingdom but from outside . do he agree that the good way to preserve our great United Kingdom be for everyone to get back around the table and to govern Northern Ireland from Stormont ? I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for his question and welcome his election as Chair of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee , probably more than some other member will — I look to a certain member on the Benches opposite . he be absolutely right in what he say ; there be no way this Government want to go down the route of direct rule , which would need primary legislation . we do not want to go down the route of joint authority either and we will not do so . we need to find an appropriate form to allow the Executive to reform , which be what we be work unbelievably hard on with our colleague in Northern Ireland . do my right hon . friend agree that it be deeply regrettable that the Taoiseach , Leo Varadkar , be pander to his domestic audience , rather than think of the great good of Northern Ireland and the victim of the trouble ? my right hon . friend make a very fair point , because in the midst of everything we be try to do to get the Executive back up and run , the Republic of Ireland ' s decision to take an inter - state case out against the UK Government on our Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 , which be design to bring justice and information recovery to victim of the trouble , be unhelpful and unfortunate . we have make our representation very plain on that matter . I call the shadow Secretary of State . now that the talk have conclude , with the House have vote overwhelmingly to support the Windsor framework back in March , Labour Members stand by our commitment to implement it if we be to be in government , and we support the effort the Government be make to restore the institution . furthermore , it be worth point out that there would be no prospect of negotiate with the European Union further arrangement of benefit to Northern Ireland if the UK be to renege , again , on an international agreement it have sign . will the Secretary of State confirm that if the Executive be not restore by tomorrow evening , he will need to bring forward legislation to postpone the election ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question and for his affirmation of the work do on the Windsor framework . obviously , I will be do everything I can to ensure that it be not a Labour Government who come in to do any of this in the future . however , he be right to say that as of midnight on Thursday — tomorrow night — I will need to bring in primary legislation , because a duty fall on I to call an election for the Northern Ireland Assembly . I have a number of week — I believe it be 12 — in which to do that , and I intend to bring in legislation on these matter next week . I be grateful for that clarification . the absence of the Executive and the failure to sort out the urgent question of public sector pay be go to result in the big strike in Northern Ireland for many year tomorrow . some worker have not have a pay rise for almost three year — that be not sustainable . as we await the restoration of the institution , the party leader and indeed the head of the civil service in Northern Ireland have all call on the Secretary of State to release the money for pay , which he have say be available . will he now do so , so that public sector worker in Northern Ireland can get the pay increase they deserve ? I be acutely aware of the industrial action schedule for tomorrow and the detrimental impact it will have on public service . I hear the call from the right hon . Gentleman and other to step in , but let I put this into a slightly different context . public sector pay be devolve to Northern Ireland , and he will know that , as I mention early , this Parliament set the budget for Northern Ireland this year , with primary legislation . he will also know that decision on matter such as this be obviously one that locally elect Ministers should take , as they involve big and fundamental choice ; every penny spend on pay be a penny not spend on service . choice on this be therefore eminently political — indeed , they be as close as we would get to the choice make in the period of direct rule . direct rule be absolutely not the way forward ; these decision be for the Executive , and a restore Executive have a generous financial package available to they to do exactly as the right hon . Gentleman wish . the Secretary of State will know that Northern Ireland can benefit from power sharing arrangement only when those institution enjoy the support and confidence of both the nationalist and unionist community . I think I have previously hear he accept that the Northern Ireland protocol do not enjoy the support of any Unionist in Northern Ireland . despite reference to talk have conclude in December , the Secretary of State helpfully indicate on Monday this week that further progress have be make . do he accept that the restoration of institution will be secure only when that confidence within the Unionist community be put where it need to be ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question and for the many , many hour of work that he personally have put into the talk we have be have . they be detailed talk and it be a complex situation . I have say before , because it be absolutely obvious , that the Unionists in Northern Ireland be deeply unhappy with the exist Northern Ireland protocol . I believe we have make excellent progress . I hope that in the come day and week , we can get to a point where his party can come to a conclusion on those talk that lead we to reform the Executive , because I know that he be a democrat and want it reform . I appreciate the Secretary of State ' s remark . he will have hear the concern around the general strike , which will be call tomorrow . he will know that his Government dismiss our call when we say that there simply be not sufficient money . he know we have to battle for sufficient money and that in the run - up to Christmas he personally secure the availability of that money . the release of the fund be call for by the DUP , every political party in Northern Ireland , the head of the Northern Ireland civil service and , this morning , 50 chief executive of public sector agency across Northern Ireland . I do not believe there be a lack of will on the Secretary of State ' s part , but this be a choice — a political choice that the Government can make . will the Secretary of State use today to encourage his Government colleague , the Treasury and anyone else who believe that use public sector worker as blackmail or political pawn be beneficial in any way ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question and the way that he put it . as I mention early , public sector pay be devolve and be properly a matter for locally elect politician who be well place to take decision in that space . flooding : fund what progress he have make on allocate funding to help tackle the impact of flooding in Northern Ireland . in the absence of the Executive , this Government have make up to £ 15 million of support available for business and non - domestic property through the reallocation of exist funding . it be for the Northern Ireland civil service and local council to consider how to utilise the remain fund to provide further support to business and non - domestic property . build resilience for the future be vital if this government be to address the challenge around climate change . York ' s resilience measure cost over £ 100 million to protect my city this winter , but the estimate cost to business in Newry alone be £ 37 million as a result of the winter weather . when will the Minister bring forward a proper amount of money — not just £ 15 million , which may be a deposit — to ensure that Northern Ireland can build its resilience for the future ? I will answer in a couple of way . first , only just over £ 1 million of that £ 15 million have be draw down , which be a sign that the amount be sufficient . secondly , the Northern Ireland civil service have recently announce that up to £ 10 million have be make available to assist small and medium sized business , with up to £ 100 , 000 available per business . the experience of her constituent — I have the figure in front of I — show that this Government be commit to our infrastructure be ready for the future . that be partly why we be so keen to see the Executive back , with a large package to help support the stabilisation and transformation of public service , so we can get the kind of investment she refer to . cost of live what recent discussion he have have with the Administration in Northern Ireland on the effect of increase in the cost of live on people in Northern Ireland . what recent discussion he have have with the Administration in Northern Ireland on the effect of increase in the cost of live on people in Northern Ireland . what recent discussion he have have with the Administration in Northern Ireland on the effect of increase in the cost of live on people in Northern Ireland . the Government have take decisive action to help tackle increase in the cost of living , include support for the most vulnerable household in Northern Ireland . we be target support this winter through a range of measure , include cost of live payment of £ 900 . it remain vital that there be a function Executive in place that can deliver for the people of Northern Ireland , who deserve that stable government take the relevant decision . I want to return to the subject of public sector pay . public sector worker in Northern Ireland have see their real pay fall by more than 7 % over the past year . do that not demonstrate that the UK Government ' s response to the cost of living crisis be leave Northern Ireland behind ? I encourage the Minister to join the cross - party call to ensure that public sector worker in Northern Ireland be fairly pay for their important work . I be grateful that the hon . Gentleman raise this matter again . he will have hear what my right hon . friend the Secretary of State say . I wish to emphasise that the money that have be make available in what be a large package for stabilisation and transformation in Northern Ireland include a sum of money to enable public sector pay to be settle , but that be a matter to be decide in Northern Ireland . that be why we continue to press the DUP and other party with as much force as we can muster to restore the Assembly and the Executive to deal with that . give that the UK be experience the big drop in living standard on record , with household bear the brunt of high energy cost and temperature drop dramatically this week across Northern Ireland and , indeed , Scotland , why have the UK Government leave household out in the cold this winter ? I do not accept that we have leave household in the cold . further cost of live support through the winter period for Northern Ireland household be announce in the autumn statement in 2022 , with additional payment to household across the UK . those on mean - test benefit be get £ 900 , those on disability benefit £ 150 and pensioner household £ 300 . we be resolve to promote prosperity in Northern Ireland and we be seize of the reality that disposable income in Northern Ireland be particularly squeeze . that be why we have put in a range of measure to promote prosperity , which I hope to return to in later answer . we have just hear the Minister say that income in Northern Ireland be particularly squeeze . in November , the typical monthly pay in Northern Ireland see a month - on - month fall of 1 . 8 % . by contrast , typical wage in the UK show a 1 . 2 % month - on - month increase . that mean that earning in Northern Ireland sit 11 % below UK earning — the big difference on record . what step be be take now , in the absence of a function Stormont , to offer some kind of sustainable pay deal in Northern Ireland for public sector worker ? Mr Speaker , I could give a lengthy answer to the hon . Lady ' s question , which would try your patience , so I will just return to her final question on what be be do for public sector worker . we be absolutely seize , as we have say previously , of the need to ensure that public sector worker have a pay rise . that be why a very substantial sum be in the package on the table for the party . none the less , we be absolutely clear that , on this issue , as across a wide field of other about which I be sure we will hear in the course of these question , Northern Ireland need devolve Government to take the relevant decision in Northern Ireland , and on that there be consensus across the House . the Government ' s package to support people with the cost of living amount to about £ 94 billion over two year . it be one of the most comprehensive in Europe . can my right hon . Friend assure the House that people in Northern Ireland , as an integral part of our United Kingdom , have have full access to those cost of live support measure ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . the extent of Government support for Northern Ireland household be unprecedented . it include the energy price guarantee on electricity and gas bill ; £ 600 in payment comprise £ 400 for energy bill support scheme payment , plus £ 200 to recognise the widespread use of home heating oil ; and target support for the most vulnerable household , some of which I have already touch on . she be right that we be determined to ensure that Northern Ireland feel the benefit of be in the Union of this United Kingdom . I call the shadow Minister . I recently meet the Melted Parents campaign group in Belfast . it speak for so many parent across Northern Ireland , where the cost of living crisis be far hard for family because there be no funding for a free childcare scheme , or the 15 or 30 hour of pre - school , just eye - watering and unaffordable bill . but there be a cross - party childcare strategy proposal . will the Minister say for all the employer and parent watch , if there be a new temporary Budget for Northern Ireland , whether it will include childcare funding provision ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for raise this issue . it be of the high importance in Northern Ireland , and it be impress upon I frequently . the Budget will be debate in this House , of course , and I be confident that we will return to it . as we have say before , this be one of those issue that underscore the importance of the Executive return , and I be grateful that we agree on that point . she be absolutely right to raise the issue . I call Martin Docherty - Hughes . [ interruption . ] trouble Permanent Disablement Payment Scheme what recent discussion he have have with the Administration in Northern Ireland on ensure timely payment from the trouble permanent disablement payment scheme to eligible individual . like the hon . member , I too be quite surprised that he be that popular . [ interruption . ] I be sorry ; I misread the room again . the trouble permanent disablement payment scheme be a devolved matter deliver by the Victims ' Payments Board . I meet Judge McAlinden , the president of the board , last week to discuss those matter . accord to recent evidence present to the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee — this be actually very serious ; it be not a joke , so maybe member would like to listen — it could take more than 10 year to process the application for the trouble victim ' compensation scheme , mean that victim in Northern Ireland who have wait decade for compensation to be deliver will need to wait even long . can the Secretary of State advise not only the House but those await payment what his Government be do to deliver that compensation scheme ? as I say , have meet Judge McAlinden , I be conduct a review of the operation of the scheme , which will report before August this year . the review be under way , and I very much hope that it will address all those matter so that those who qualify for the payment get they in a much more expedited way . I call SNP spokesperson . give the length of time it take in many case to gather the support evidence to make a claim under the scheme , the pressure on the payment board itself , and the strong likelihood that many of those who be potentially eligible be yet to apply , it be clear that there be a risk that many who could be eligible for a payment might miss out as thing stand . one way the Secretary of State could mitigate that be by extend the period allow for claim to be make and process . as part of the review , will he consider extend that deadline ? yes , that be actually part of the review and one of the question we be look at . the Union what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to strengthen Northern Ireland ' s place in the Union . I thank my hon . friend for his question . I wish to reassure he that the UK Government be fully commit to protect and uphold Northern Ireland ' s place in the Union . I regularly discuss matter of the Union , and the importance of Northern Ireland within it , with Cabinet colleague and frequently meet the Secretaries of State for Wales and for Scotland . would my right hon . friend agree that the Union be now strong than ever , particularly with the decline of the SNP , and that its vital importance can be see not only in Northern Ireland but in border constituency such as mine , Clwyd South , particularly in share service across the border with neighbour North Shropshire , such as the Gobowen to Wrexham line , the A5 / A483 and the Chirk - St Martin ' s GP partnership ? as we can see , all politic be local , and I congratulate my hon . friend on the success of shared cross - border service in his constituency ; he be absolutely right . I know he be a great champion of connectivity across the United Kingdom , and I be sure that his constituent appreciate his effort on those matter . every devious , deceitful and dishonest tactic be be use to try to bribe , bully and beat Unionists into accept the Windsor framework and the Northern Ireland protocol , despite the impact it have on our citizenship and on the Union . it seem that the late recruit be the Chairman of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee , the right hon . and learn Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) , who only this week tell the BBC that unionist should get back to Stormont , because constitutional issue be the responsibility of the EU and the Irish Government , in any settlement , would have a say in the future of Northern Ireland . can the Secretary of State confirm that this Conservative and Unionist Government have not hand constitutional control of Northern Ireland to the EU and that the Chairman of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee have either become an over - zealous advocate of the scare tactic or be talk through his hat ? I see you be as brief as ever . Mr Speaker — [ interruption . ] base on that cheer , the Select Committee Chair have a lot of work to do to increase his popularity in this House . as ever , the right hon . Gentleman ask a question in his characteristic shrink violet way . I completely disagree with what he say about my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) . we need to get a deal do now . the people of Northern Ireland want to get a deal do . it be time for a deal to be do . let we get the Executive back up and run . before we come to Prime Minister ' s question , I be pleased to inform the House that , since last week , we have be provide british Sign Language coverage on all question and statement as a matter of course . this be available directly on parliamentlive . tv , and it be also available to broadcaster and medium outlet who may be interested in take up the live feed . I be delighted that the House service have be able to deliver this significant improvement in the accessibility of our proceeding . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 17 January . this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . accord to the Alzheimer ' s Society , nearly 5 , 000 people be currently live with dementia in my Colne Valley constituency , of whom 3 , 153 have have a formal diagnosis . that figure go up by one this week with my dad ' s diagnosis — my dad be my constituent . will my right hon . friend pledge to make dementia a priority by drive up diagnosis rate , bolster dementia research , invest in social care , and improve access to the most innovative diagnostic method and to new , life - change treatment ? I send my warm wish to my hon . friend and his father and family . I recognise that a dementia diagnosis can bring worry , both for the person who be diagnose and for their wide family . he be absolutely right about the timely diagnosis of dementia ; it be vital to ensure that those affect can access the care and support they need . NHS England be carry out a pilot to ensure that we can improve dementia diagnosis in care home , and our major condition strategy include a focus on dementia . crucially , as he say , we be now double the funding for dementia research so that we can help everyone , include his father . we now come to the Leader of the Opposition . I send my good wish to the hon . member for Colne Valley ( Jason McCartney ) and his father , and to all those suffering in that way . I can not let today pass without say how saddened I be by the tragic death of Bronson Battersby , age just two , who die in heartbreaking circumstance in Skegness . I know that the House will join I in send our deep sympathy to his family . the Government have be force to admit that they have lose contact with 85 % of the 5 , 000 people earmark for removal to Rwanda . have the Prime Minister find they yet ? what I can tell the right hon . and learn Gentleman be that , in spite of he seek to block every single attempt that we have make , we have now manage , because of our action , to reduce the number of people come here by over a third last year , to remove more than 20 , 000 people from this country back to their home country , to carry out 70 % more illegal immigration enforcement raid , to arrest hundred of people , to close down thousand of bank account and to process more than 100 , 000 case — the big number in more than 20 year . that be because , on the conservative side of the House , we want to stop the boat . we have a plan and it be work . with he , we would just go back to square one . my first thought be , " how do you actually lose 4 , 250 people ? " then I remember that this be the Government who scrap High Speed 2 , but the cost be still rise by billion ; this be the Government who spend £ 400 million of taxpayer ' money on a Rwanda scheme , yet can not deport a single person ; and this be the Government who wage a week - long war on the greek Prime Minister for reason know only to themselves — and suddenly I remember that of course this farce of a Government could lose the people they be plan to remove . the Prime Minister do not answer the question , so I will ask he again : where be the 4 , 250 people the Government have lose ? where be they ? as I say , we have actually identify and remove over 20 , 000 people from this country back to where they belong . the right hon . and learn Gentleman ask these question about the Rwanda scheme , but it be important that we get it up and run , because it be important , as the National Crime Agency say , that we have a work deterrent in order to resolve this issue . that be how Australia solve the problem , and that be how Albania have work for we . he ask these question about the detail of those thing , but we all know that he do not actually care about solve the problem . we know that because the BBC quiz he , ask : " if … the number cross the Channel on small boat decline — I . e . so it ' s work — would you still reverse it ? " the Labour leader say , " yes . " it be crystal clear that he do not have a plan and it will be back to square one . spend £ 400 million on not get anybody to Rwanda while lose 4 , 000 people be not a plan ; it be a farce . only this Government could waste hundred of million of pound on a removal policy that do not remove anyone . only this Government could claim that they will get flight off the ground only to discover that they can not find a plane . only this Government could sign a removal deal with Rwanda only to end up take people from Rwanda to here . the Prime Minister still have not answer the question , so I will try again . what progress have he make in locate the 4 , 250 people his Government have apparently lose ? he have dodge it three time . where be they ? it be the same thing again and again . here we be , talk about what we be do , and I be happy to go over it . what be we do ? we have increase the number of illegal immigration enforcement raid by 70 % , lead to thousand of arrest , use power that the right hon . and learn Gentleman seek to block in this House . we have close down thousand of bank account of illegal worker — again , use power that he seek to block — [ interruption . ] order . Mr Ashworth , do you want that early cup of tea or will you be silent ? as I say , we have work through a record number of case and return a record number of people back to where they come from . all that be a plan that be work , and we can see that it be work because the number of people come to this country be down by over a third . again , it be a bit rich to hear the right hon . and learn Gentleman pretend here that he care about how we actually stop the boat when he have be crystal clear in say that even if the plan to reduce the number be work , he would still scrap it . that be because he have no value , no conviction and no plan . it be back to square one . More ! order . no . the Prime Minister do not have a clue where they be , have he ? I can tell you one place they be not , and that be Rwanda — the only people he have send to Rwanda be Cabinet Ministers . for all the word , the ridiculous thing be that we know the Prime Minister himself do not even believe in this Rwanda gimmick . he have to be talk out of scrap the whole thing . he do not want to fund it ; he do not think it would work . when he see his party tear itself apart — hundred of bald man scrap over a single broken comb — do he not wish that he have have the courage to stick to his gun ? I have absolute conviction that the plan we have put in place will work , because I believe it be important that we grip this problem . the right hon . and learn Gentleman spend a lot of his time in this House talk about his time as a lawyer , and I would urge he to listen to lawyer , because Lord Wolfson have say that our Bill severely limit the ground for removal . four eminent King ' s counsel have say that it be undoubtedly the most robust piece of immigration legislation this Parliament have see , and — [ interruption . ] order . I want to hear what the Prime Minister have to say , because it matter to my constituent ; those who feel that it do not matter to theirs should please leave . as I say , Mr Speaker , four eminent kc have say that this be undoubtedly the most robust legislation this Parliament have see , and a former Supreme Court justice have be clear that the Bill would work . but I know that the right hon . and learn Gentleman have always be more interested in what leftie lawyer have to say . I even have in my hand the textbook that he author for they — it be call " European Human Rights Law " by Keir Starmer , so — [ interruption . ] Prime Minister , when I stand up , please sit down . can I just say that we do not use prop in this House ? if you need reminding , I will certainly ensure that I do so . it be such utterly pathetic nonsense . the Prime Minister have be brutally expose by his own mps yet again . he have one party chair who say that she hope the Lords will rip his Rwanda deal to piece , and two more who have to quit because they do not think it will work — all of they appoint by he , all now in open revolt against his policy , each other , and reality . be it any wonder that they all think this gimmick be doom to failure when the Prime Minister himself do not believe in it ? it be rich to hear from the right hon . and learn Gentleman about belief in something . it will be news to he that it be actually the case that you can believe in something and stick to that position on this side of the House . [ interruption . ] can I just say to member on the Government side that this be very important ? it be an important day . People want to know what be go on , so I want my constituent , just like yours , to hear what the Prime Minister have to say . just this week we have another example of the right hon . and learn Gentleman do one thing and say another . this week he back the Home Secretary in ban the terrorist group Hizb ut - Tahrir , despite he personally use the European Court of Human Rights to try to stop they be ban . you do not have to take my word for it ; the extremist ' own press release say , and I quote , " the Hizb ut - tahrir legal team , lead by Keir Starmer " . I know that he do not like talk about they because they have be a client , but when I see a group chant " jihad " on our street , I ban they ; he invoice they . [ interruption . ] there be eight question that I think some member might want to hear answer . I tell you what : some who want question have already go off the list . if the Prime Minister stick to his position , he would be vote with we . his former Home Secretary say that the plan will not work , his current Home Secretary call it " batshit " , his former immigration Minister do not back his plan , and even the Prime Minister himself do not believe in it . last week , another of his mp say that the Tories should admit that thing have get " bad " since they come to office , that after 14 year they have leave Britain " less united " , and that the country be a " sad " place . if the Prime Minister can not even persuade his own mps that it be worth support he , and if he himself do not even believe in his own policy , why on earth should anyone else think differently ? another week when it be crystal clear that the right hon . and learn Gentleman do not believe in anything , and he do not have a plan . while he talk the country down , let I update he on what have actually be happen in the past week — inflation more than halve from 11 % to 4 % , and real wage rise for the fifth month in a row . last week , rate start fall , and million of people benefit from a tax cut worth £ 450 . so while he take we back to square one with a £ 28 billion tax grab , let we stick with the plan that be deliver a bright future for Britain . it be against the law to silence victim of crime , but that be exactly what the Post Office do through the use of non - disclosure agreement , and this be just the most recent case of nda cover up mismanagement , misconduct and even crime at work . will my right hon . friend the Prime Minister consider ban their use in all severance agreement once and for all ? my right hon . friend be right to raise an important point . the ability to speak out about thing be key to unlock justice . while nda can have a place — and my right hon . friend be right to say that they should not be use to stop victim of crime in particular get the justice they deserve — I can tell she that the Ministry of Justice be carefully consider how good to address this issue , include the use of legislation , and I know that my right hon . and learn Friend the Justice Secretary will keep the House update on further progress . I call the SNP leader . when people wake up today in home that they can not afford to heat , with mortgage that they be struggle to pay , to news that inflation be once again on the rise , they will have look to Westminster for answer , and instead they find a UK Government who be tear themselves apart over how quickly they can send vulnerable people on a plane to Rwanda . surely the Prime Minister must understand that the anger that some of his own Back Benchers have towards he be no comparison to the anger that the public have towards his party . if the hon . Gentleman do care about support work family to pay their bill and to pay their mortgage , why on earth be the SNP make Scotland the highest tax part of the United Kingdom , where the average — not the wealthy , but the average — worker in Scotland be now pay more tax than they do in England . of course , when it come to the Rwanda Bill the reality be that , if you want to stop the smuggler gang , you should introduce safe and legal route , but instead the Prime Minister be seek to weaponise some of the most vulnerable people in society . it be straight out of the cruel and callous right - wing extremist playbook . his time in office be fast approach its conclusion . do he seriously want this to be his legacy ? as I say , it be important that we stop the boat because illegal migration be simply not fair . it be not right that some people jump the queue and take away our resource from those who need our help most — and , by the way they be exploit by gang and many of they lose their life make these dangerous crossing — so I completely disagree with the hon . Gentleman . the fair and compassionate thing to do be to break these criminal gang , and that be why we be go to stop the boat . unexpectedly , five month ago , I have a heart attack . thank to the swift action of the NHS emergency service , it be catch early . so one stent operation later , I be on a swift path to rehabilitation and recovery , and I be sit here today fight fit and a bit light , too . so along with encourage everyone to visit the British Heart Foundation website to understand the early warning sign and get fantastic resource to help they , would the Prime Minister also join I in personally thank everyone who help to save my life and help I recover , include the East of England Ambulance Service , the team at Watford General Hospital and Harefield Hospital , the cardiac rehabilitation team and everyone who support I , especially my family and my team , some of whom be in the Gallery today , who help to ensure that I continue to deliver for the great people of Watford ? I thank my hon . friend for share his story , and I know the whole House will be delighted to hear that he have make a swift recovery . we all wish he good health for the future , as he resume his excellent campaigning on behalf of his constituent in Watford . I also join he in thank our fantastic NHS staff for the life - save work that they do up and down the country . we be back they with record resource — from our doctor to our ambulance service — and we be all in this House truly grateful for what they do . Mr Speaker , " until the UK Government call for an immediate ceasefire , it be complicit in the horror … in Gaza . " those be not my word but those of the head of Oxfam who , like every single agency try to operate on the ground , be clear that aid can not be effectively deliver while fighting continue . More UK aid be of course welcome but even when it do get through , it can result in what one palestinian aid worker call " bomb we on full stomach . " some 24 , 000 people have already be kill so what will it take for the Prime Minister to back a permanent bilateral ceasefire ? of course we want to see a peaceful resolution to this conflict as soon as possible . a sustainable permanent ceasefire with an end to the destruction , fighting and loss of life , the release of hostage and no resumption of hostility would of course be the good way forward , but in order to achieve that a number of thing need to happen : Hamas would have to agree to release all the hostage ; Hamas would have to no long be in charge of Gaza ; the threat of more rocket attack from Hamas into Israel would have to end ; and the Palestinian Authority , boost with assistance , would need to return to Gaza in order to provide governance and aid . that be a sustainable ceasefire that we will work very hard to bring about . today I be unsure whether to raise a national issue such as the desperate need for a Minister for man or a local issue such as Doncaster ' s need for a new hospital or Edlington ' s for a new leisure centre , but I think the good thing I could do be ask the Prime Minister to come and have a tour of Doncaster , and while I be show he around my home town I can press the need for a Minister for man , I can show he the site for a new hospital , and I can introduce he to the people of Edlington so that he can discuss their new leisure centre . will the Prime Minister accept my invitation ? thank to my hon . friend ' s fantastic campaigning on behalf of his constituent , City of Doncaster Council have receive more than £ 80 million in levelling - up funding to support its regeneration project and most recently Doncaster have be award £ 20 million in our long - term plan for town over the next 10 year , which I know he be work very hard to make sure be prioritise for local people . I will be delighted to discuss both project and his other idea when I come and visit he as soon as my diary allow . some 71 % of request for funding from the community ownership fund aim at save library , pub and village hall have be reject since 2021 . it pit community against each other and do nothing to address the underlie cause that have lead to the loss of these much - love asset . when will the Government offer more than a simple sticking - plaster for our town , high street and community ? I set up the community ownership fund when I be Chancellor and it be do fantastic work fund hundred of project across the country , include , I believe , one in the hon . Lady ' s constituency — the back on the map scheme . it be there to support local community , take over asset — whether pub , village hall or other community asset — and be do a fantastic job . it be right that there be a competitive process because we want to make sure the money be deploy in the area where it can make the most difference . over - crowding on Chiltern Railways have become a daily misery for commuter from station include Haddenham and Thame Parkway and Princes Risborough in my constituency , the root cause of which be an age fleet constantly break down and short train have to be run . there be proposal on the table for both short - term additional capacity and long - term fleet renewal . will my right hon . friend instruct the Department for Transport to fast - track those proposal so we can end overcrowding on Chiltern ? I agree with my hon . friend that the performance on Chiltern have not be good enough in recent time . I know that Chiltern have recently begin engagement with the rolling - stock leasing market , which will help reduce overcrowding , but also , together with dft , it be look at provide additional capacity at peak time . I know that the rail Minister my hon . friend the Member for Bexhill and Battle ( Huw Merriman ) will ensure that these plan continue to progress and keep my hon . friend the Member for Buckingham ( Greg Smith ) update . what exactly be it about the prospect of deportation to Rwanda that make the Government think it will be such a deterrent to asylum seeker ? do they think that life in Rwanda be somehow less comfortable , secure and safe than here in the United Kingdom ? what do the Government think be wrong with Rwanda that mean asylum seeker will not want to live there ? it be not that there be anything wrong with it ; it be just that it be not the United Kingdom . and I have to point out to the hon . gentleman that deterrence work : we know that it work because our scheme with Albania have ensure a 90 % reduction in arrival from that country . I know that my right hon . friend the Prime Minister be commit to energy security and the development of renewable , as be I , and that be why Sizewell C start a development consent order this week . however , there be plenty of other development happen on greenfield site , where National Grid plan to use compulsory purchase order to plough up farming field use for food and tree production when brownfield site be available that be connect to the network . National Grid be refuse to publish its study on Bradwell and why they deem it not suitable for the connection of offshore wind farm and interconnector . will he meet I and other East Anglian mp to discuss this matter and use the power of his office to get that study publish ? as my right hon . friend will know , planning application for new infrastructure be manage independently , so I can not comment on specific case , but I agree with she that it be important to listen to the view of local community , such as those she represent across Suffolk and East Anglia . I know that the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) be visit her area recently to mark the commencement of the project at Sizewell C , and I can assure she that relevant Ministers will continue to pay close attention to her concern . the Leader of the House last week correctly describe the contaminate blood scandal as " on another level " compare with other scandal . Sir Brian Langstaff have announce today the publication of the final report of the infected blood inquiry , and he remind we : " my principal recommendation remain that a compensation scheme should be set up with urgency . no - one should be in any doubt about the serious nature of the failing over more than six decade that have lead to catastrophic loss of life and compound suffering . " More than 100 parliamentarian write to the Prime Minister this week , so can he tell we when those affect will be pay compensation for their loss ? I be acutely aware of the strength of feeling on this issue and the suffering of all those impact by this dreadful scandal . I give evidence to the inquiry last year , and as I say then , I recognise the suffering that thousand have experience over decade . the hon . Gentleman will know that the Minister for the Cabinet Office , my right hon . friend the Member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) update Parliament on this matter towards the end of last year . the hon . Gentleman will know that it be a highly complex issue . interim payment have be make in some case , and we be absolutely committed to respond to the final report as quickly as possible follow its publication . last week , Conservative - control Bromley Council ' s child ' s service be rate outstanding by Ofsted in all four area of inspection . that be only the third time that have happen under the current framework . will the Prime Minister join I in congratulate the officer and member of Bromley Council and perhaps even visit Bromley and see our new cost - save civic centre ? it be perhaps not quite on my way to Doncaster , but I will bear it in mind . I join my hon . friend in pay tribute to Bromley Council and all the officer involve in provide an incredibly important service in their local community and look after some of the most vulnerable child in our society . they all deserve our thank and praise for their brilliant effort . HS2 promise to transform intercity travel and my seat , where Old Oak Common will one day be . however , after Leeds and Manchester be ditch , the London end of HS2 be now in doubt . can the Prime Minister commit today to ensure that it at least reach Euston , or be he intent on stop all transport form , except perhaps private jet ? the Leader of the Opposition may have something to say about form of transportation , and perhaps about HS2 as well — I still have not hear his position on the subject . Old Oak Common be destine to be one of the foremost station in the country because of the extra connectivity it will have across London and as the initial terminus for hs2 train . as we say at the announcement , we be work with the private sector , as we have in other development in London , to raise private money , save the taxpayer money and deliver the connection to Euston as plan . I have just get back from the inaugural woman ' s health summit . during the summer , it be announce that specialist maternal mental health service will be available to woman in every part of England by March . that be particularly pertinent for I , after one of my constituent , Jessica Cronshaw , pass away while pregnant with her baby Elsie after suffer severe pregnancy sickness , hyperemesis gravidarum . I thank the Government for follow through with this important reform and push to keep go with the spirit of this reform so that our NHS be fit for woman in the future . I thank my hon . friend for raise this matter . I know that the whole House will want to convey its sympathy to Jessica ' s family . I be pleased that the reform we be make will make a difference to woman across the country in the future . we be committed to our woman ' s health strategy , and I be grateful for her support and , again , her advice and idea so that we can ensure that it deliver the care that we want it to across the country . yesterday , the conservative candidate for the Wellingborough by - election reveal that the conservative party have offer she a deal to be the candidate if the previous Member — her partner — stand down without a fuss . just last week , the Prime Minister say that " candidate selection be do locally " in his party , so would he like to deny that this secret deal be offer ? as I say last week , in our party candidate selection be do locally . do my right hon . friend the Prime Minister agree that a remote rural hotel be the wrong place to house asylum seeker or refugee from their point of view ? will he therefore join I in thank the Home Secretary for announce yesterday that the Wiltshire Hotel outside Royal Wootton Bassett be to be return to its proper purpose in April ? I thank my hon . friend for the question . he be absolutely right : the use of hotel be unfair on local community and cost taxpayer £ 8 million a day . our plan to reduce the number of people come have mean that we can close the first 50 hotel across the country , with more to follow . I thank the Home Secretary and his team for their effort . but , fundamentally , the only way to resolve this once and for all be to implement our Rwanda scheme so that we can have a work deterrent . that be how we will stop the boat . I have be contact by desperate constituent who have ring every single pharmacy within a 50 - mile radius of Warrington and still have not be able to access their medication for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder . this have be go on for month , and it be not just a Warrington issue : pharmacist be call it the bad shortage ever , with only 11 % of people able to access their full dose this month . ADHD UK have call the Government ' s response " pathetic " . it be right , isn ' t it ? I be sorry to hear about the situation in the hon . Lady ' s constituency . the Health Secretary hear what she say and be in touch with the relevant drug body to ensure that we can have the provision of ADHD medicine for all those who need it . for about a decade , over 200 of my constituent in the Mill complex in Ipswich have be catch in the cruell form of limbo . the building have deep structural problem and clad problem . a few year ago , they get about £ 15 million in an out - of - court settlement to make a contribution towards clad cost , but the freeholder , the National Asset Management Agency — an irish financial entity set up after the irish banking crisis — run away with that money , put my constituent back to square one with little to no hope . will the Prime Minister talk to the Irish Taoiseach to raise this immoral case and meet I to discuss a way forward for my constituent , who I meet every week ? I be sorry to hear about my hon . friend ' s case . I will ensure that the Government look into the detail and get back to he in the short order about how we can support he and his constituent . First Minister of Scotland when he next plan to meet the First Minister of Scotland . I have repeatedly express my commitment to joint work with the First Minister of Scotland to deliver for the people across the country . I be grateful for that answer . although much attention have rightly be pay to the Post Office - Horizon scandal , there be another shocking example of Government and private sector collusion that begin under the last Labour Administration and have continue under the Tories . almost 200 , 000 mortgage prisoner who borrow with high street lender such as Northern Rock have become trap after the portfolio be sell off to foreign entity include Topaz Finance and Heliodor , who have be cream off extortionate standard variable rate since 2008 , leave even those who keep up with payment in danger of have their home repossess . some 200 , 000 aspirant homeowner have have their dream take away from they . will the Prime Minister , instead of play catch - up as he be with the Post Office scandal , meet I and campaigner to discuss what more can be do for mortgage prisoner ? I be familiar with the situation for mortgage prisoner , and it be something that I work on as Chancellor . the Treasury and the current Chancellor have be engage with campaign group and other to find way to resolve it . it be not an easy situation to fix overnight , but thing be be look at as we speak . yesterday , the Scotch Whisky Association publish a report on the economic impact of the sector not just in Scotland but across the whole UK . some highlight include that in 2022 , it generate £ 7 . 1 billion in gross value add , £ 2 . 1 billion be invest in capital project between 2018 and 2022 , and 41 , 000 job be support by the sector in Scotland , include one in nine in my Moray constituency . do the Prime Minister agree that support the Scotch whisky industry in the forthcoming spring Budget and beyond be a correct priority for this Government ? my hon . friend be a superb ambassador for Moray and Scotch whisky . he be right that it be a hugely successful export industry that support ten of thousand of skilled job across Scotland . I will not tread on the Chancellor ' s toe about future Budgets , but I be proud of this Government ' s track record of support the industry , have remove US tariff on Scotch whisky , reduce tariff in deal with country like Morocco and Argentina and support the sector ' s interest in our free trade agreement with Australia and New Zealand and , most recently , the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership . engagement the Prime Minister have be very keen to take credit for fall inflation in previous month . will he now take responsibility for today ' s rise ? inflation be over 11 % when I get this job . inflation today be 4 % , in common with the US , France and Germany . all country have see a mild tick - up in December , but the crucial thing be that inflation have be more than halve and deliver ahead of schedule . that be an enormous benefit to family up and down the country — a benefit that would be reverse by the Labour party ' s plan to saddle they with £ 28 billion of tax rise . I be a keen parkrunner in Walsall , but I be also part of the core team of volunteer that recently bring parkrun to Tamworth . in the 20th anniversary year of parkrun , will the Prime Minister join I in encourage other town that do not yet have a parkrun to get one ? it be great to hear that my hon . friend be an avid parkrunner . I thank he for volunteer so that the people of Tamworth can enjoy one , too . I completely agree with he — when I have more time , I be a regular at the Northallerton parkrun , and the junior parkrun , which I recommend to those with child . it be a fantastic and accessible way to get people move . I join he in encourage everyone to get involve in his local area and beyond . at the last general election , resident in west Hertfordshire be promise a new hospital , but we be still wait for the green light and be have to put up with broken lift and overly crowded treatment ward . in other part of the country , entire hospital building have have to be close down , like the one in Stepping Hill in Stockport , because they be structurally unsafe . from broken promise on new hospital to the backlog of repair , people be sick and tired of wait . will the Prime Minister tell I , by the time of the next general election , how many broken hospital will be fix , and will my resident be able to point to a single spade in the ground ? we be invest record sum to deliver not just 40 new hospital across the country but 90 different hospital upgrade . the hon . Lady will be familiar with the plan at West Hertfordshire trust to develop a new emergency and specialty care facility at Watford General , include woman ' s and child ' s service . it will make an enormous difference to resident in the area . a recent BBC news article raise fear that Blyth could become a ghost town , as we see our shopping centre close , to be replace by a new high education facility . resident be right to be concern . I have personally see decade of labour neglect and decline in our town . this Conservative Government have invest hundred of million of pound to level up my constituency , with spade in the ground as I speak . will my right hon . friend assure I that the rebirth of our town will continue as a key focus of this Conservative Government ? my hon . friend be absolutely right and I commend he for be such a strong advocate for Blyth . nearly half the recent town fund have be distribute to northern region in England to level up constituency like his . that be the difference . as he say , after year , if not decade , of neglect under the Labour party , it be this Government who be level up across our country . in June 2022 , to some fanfare , the Government announce the approval of £ 41 million for a package of work for the restoration of the Tyne Bridge , which be the route of the a167 , the old A1 , and connect Gateshead with Newcastle city centre . it be instantly recognisable around the world as an emblem of Tyneside . however , the funding be still await sign - off within the Department for Transport and work can not progress . give the scale and complexity of the work require , and the significant additional cost implication if funding do not come forward , can we please have the money to get on with the work so that the bridge will be ready for its centenary celebration in 2028 ? I will ensure that the relevant Minister get back to the hon . gentleman with an update on the project . I be pleased that we be not just invest in that project in his area . follow on from the previous question , I know his area have receive levelling - up funding worth £ 20 million to help transform the visitor economy in Gateshead — yet another example of the Government invest to level up across the north and across the country . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . far to the question ask by the hon . member for Glasgow South West ( Chris Stephens ) and the announcement this morning by Sir Brian Langstaff that the infected blood inquiry report be now schedule for publication in May , the hon . Member raise what Sir Brian say very clearly this morning . Sir Brian make the follow recommendation in April 2023 : " my principal recommendation remain that a compensation scheme should be set up with urgency . " the Prime Minister do not respond to what Sir Brian say this morning . I wonder , Mr Speaker , whether you have have any indication that there would be a statement from the Cabinet Office to set out what it will do about comply with the recommendation make by Sir Brian ? this be a very important issue and the right hon . Lady have campaign all the way through to ensure that people recognise the suffering that have take place and the tragedy in family . I be not responsible for the Prime Minister ' s answer and I have be give no notice that a statement be forthcoming . what I know , however , be that I can rest assure that the right hon . Lady will not stop at the question she have just ask , but will pursue it through other avenue to ensure that it be answer . Bill present Outdoor Education Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Tim Farron present a Bill to require that every child be offer at least one outdoor education experience during primary school year and at least one such experience during secondary school year ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 21 June , and to be print ( Bill 147 ) . Clean Air ( Human Rights ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to establish the right to breathe clean air ; to require the Secretary of State to achieve and maintain clean air in England ; to involve the UK Health Security Agency in set and review pollutant and their limit ; to enhance the power , duty and function of various agency and authority in relation to air pollution ; to establish the Citizens ' Commission for Clean Air with power to institute or intervene in legal proceeding ; to require the Secretary of State and the relevant national authority to apply environmental principle in carry out their duty under this Act and the clean air enactment ; and for connected purpose . in 2013 , the life of nine - year - old Ella Roberta Adoo - Kissi - Debrah be tragically cut short when she suffer a fatal asthma attack . Ella live close to the heavily congested south circular in Lewisham , and , follow an inquest in 2020 , become the first person to have air pollution list on her death certificate , with the coroner , Philip Barlow , conclude that Ella : " die of asthma contribute to by exposure to excessive air pollution . " next week would have be Ella ' s 20th birthday , and I know that all our thought will be with her family at this time . I want to pay tribute to Ella ' s mum Rosamund , who be in the Public Gallery today , for her incredible campaigning on air pollution , and to express my personal thank to she for allow this Bill to be call " Ella ' s law " in memory of her daughter . it be an honour to be able to present it to the House today . this Bill be need because , to put it simply , the state of our filthy air be a public health emergency . air pollution be associate with condition such as asthma , heart disease and cancer , and have be show to have an impact on our mental health too , lead to an increase risk of schizophrenia , depression and anxiety . its impact be not equally feel , however , with those on low income and from black and ethnic minority background far more likely to live in polluted area . it be child ' s health that be affect most of all . a study publish just last week by the University of Dundee reveal an increase in the number of under - 16s admit to hospital for respiratory problem follow period of high air pollution , while a 2019 study conduct by King ' s College London show that live within 50 metre of a busy road could stunt child ' s lung growth by up to 14 % . let I put that in context : it be estimate that in London a third of the population — about 3 million people — live near a busy road . it be therefore profoundly shocking , but perhaps not entirely surprising , that the UK have one of the high rate of asthmatic child across Europe , with one in 11 young people live with asthma . it have be calculate that clean air could prevent up to 43 , 000 avoidable death in the UK each year , and it could save the public purse billion as well . estimate of the public cost of air pollution total as much as £ 20 billion each year , include the cost of the impact on social care and on our crumble NHS . it could not be more urgent for the Government to take action to clean up our air and protect life , both now and in the future , could not be more urgent , but , although their current approach be vastly insufficient , Ministers remain bullish in defend their effort . indeed , last year the Prime Minister himself tell I : " we be confident that the measure we be put in place be not only legally binding but world lead in tackle air quality . " he go on to say that the Environment Act 2021 provide " the capability , accountability and ambition " need " to make all the effective intervention to drive down air pollution . " — [ Official Report , 1 February 2023 ; Vol . 727 , c . 338 . ] the reality be , however , that the Environment Act do very little to help deliver clean air , and it be certainly not " world lead " . the environmental target that do get make under it — to reduce level of PM2 . 5 to 10 microgram per cubic metre — fall short of the new World Health Organisation guideline of 5 microgram per cubic metre , and could certainly be achieve far early than the Government ' s target date of 2040 . indeed , when Professor Frank Kelly of Imperial College London , an adviser to the World Health Organisation on health and pollution , recently give evidence to the Environmental Audit Committee , he state very clearly : " our study show that 99 . 8 % of the UK could achieve a figure of 10 microgram per metre cube by 2030 and the 0 . 2 % that could not be certain hotspot in London , which again if you take extra measure on you could probably eliminate those as well . " Professor Sir Stephen Holgate from the University of Southampton , a special adviser on air quality to the Royal College of Physicians , subsequently write to the Committee to confirm that such a change would result in about 20 few infant death each year — 20 few life lose , and 20 family save from unimaginable heartache . give that the Mayor of London have already commit himself to deliver on this more ambitious target , and give such significant benefit , it be incumbent on Ministers to explain why the current legal limit remain so unambitious . they must also set out , as a matter of urgency , how they will meet the new who guideline , which have halve the limit for PM2 . 5 to 5 microgram per cubic metre in response to the marked increase in evidence show how air pollution affect different aspect of our health . in the word of the chief medical officer , Professor Chris Whitty , " we can and should go far — and it be technically possible to do so . " the Clean Air ( Human Rights ) Bill , or Ella ' s law , would set out an entirely new approach to deliver clean air in England . it would enshrine the human right to clean air precisely and explicitly in english law , thereby transform decision making by public authority by require they to consider clean air alongside other right under the Human Rights Act . it would be a step towards incorporate the 2022 resolution adopt by the UN General Assembly , which recognise the human right to a clean , healthy and sustainable environment . it follow a " one air " approach that encompass the health and environmental impact of air pollution and greenhouse gas , and it would set standard base on advice from the Climate Change Committee and on the who ' s new air quality guideline and require the Secretary of State to achieve clean air within five year , with the possibility of postponement for up to a further five year per pollutant , subject to strict condition . the Environment Agency and the Climate Change Committee would be require to review the pollutant and the limit annually and advise the Secretary of State if they need tighten . the Bill also cover air pollution , both outdoors and indoor , in public space , and where health and safety standard apply . the tragic death of two - year - old Awaab Ishak , bring on by " extensive " mould in his family ' s flat , shine a spotlight on the significance of indoor air pollution . while I welcome the prompt action take by the Secretary of State for Levelling up in bring forward Awaab ' s law — a law that should now , frankly , also be apply to the private rent sector through the Renters ( Reform ) Bill — it be clear that legislation to address indoor air pollution must extend beyond the home too , especially since on average we spend around 80 % of our life indoor , whether for work , study or leisure . finally , in order to ensure independent scrutiny and continuous improvement , the Bill would establish a citizen commission for clean air , which would review annually the Secretary of State ' s compliance with the provision of the Bill and advise the Secretary of State where improvement be need . this Bill have already undergo significant scrutiny in the other place , after my noble Friend and Green party peer , Baroness Jones of Moulsecoomb , top the private Member ' s Bill ballot in the previous parliamentary session . it have already be extensively debate , amend and improve and it receive cross - party support , include from Lord Randall of Uxbridge , a former environment adviser to the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) when she be Prime Minister . he say : " we have wait too long for proper clean air legislation … I urge the Minister to take this back and say that it be a golden opportunity to do something really wonderful . the Government could take pride in be part of a world - beat Bill " . — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 18 November 2022 ; Vol . 825 , c . 1133 . ] he be absolutely right . by take up Ella ' s law , the Government have a real opportunity to genuinely lead the world in tackle this press public health emergency , and I urge they to take it . question put and agree to . order , that Caroline Lucas , Mr Barry Sheerman , Layla Moran , Ian Byrne , Dan Carden and Munira Wilson present the Bill . Caroline Lucas accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 14 June , and to be print ( Bill 145 ) . safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill [ 2nd Allocated Day ] Further consider in Committee [ Dame Rosie Winterton in the Chair ] I remind member that in Committee they should not address the Chair as Deputy Speaker . please use our name when address the Chair . Madam Chair , Chair , Madam Chairman or Mr Chairman be also acceptable . clause 3 - Disapplication of the Human Rights Act 1998 I beg to move amendment 11 , page 3 , line 21 , after " Act " insert " , and of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 insofar as they relate to the removal of person to Rwanda " . this amendment be intend to ensure that the relevant provision of the Human Rights Act 1998 be fully disapplied for both this Bill and for the Illegal Migration Act 2023 in relation to removal to Rwanda – include by rule out the use of section 4 and 10 of the HRA . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow : amendment 12 , page 3 , line 22 , after " disapplied " insert " , in relation to both of those act in relation to the removal of a person to Rwanda " . this amendment be intend to ensure that the relevant provision of the Human Rights Act 1998 be fully disapplied for both this Bill and for the Illegal Migration Act 2023 in relation to removal to Rwanda – include by rule out the use of section 4 and 10 of the HRA . amendment 13 , page 3 , line 25 , after " legislation ) , " insert — " ( ba ) section 4 ( declaration of incompatibility ) and 10 ( power to take remedial action ) , " this amendment be intend to ensure that the relevant provision of the Human Rights Act 1998 be fully disapplied for both this Bill and for the Illegal Migration Act 2023 in relation to removal to Rwanda – include by rule out the use of section 4 and 10 of the HRA . Amendment 14 , page 3 , line 27 , leave out from " apply " to end of line 29 and insert " in relation into provision make by or by virtue of this Act , the Illegal Migration Act 2023 and the Immigration act in relation to the removal of a person to Rwanda " . this amendment be intend to ensure that the relevant provision of the Human Rights Act 1998 be fully disapplied for both this Bill and for the Illegal Migration Act 2023 in relation to removal to Rwanda – include by rule out the use of section 4 and 10 of the HRA . amendment 15 , page 3 , line 30 , at end insert " , the Illegal Migration Act 2023 or the Immigration act " . this amendment be intend to ensure that the relevant provision of the Human Rights Act 1998 be fully disapplied for both this Bill and for the Illegal Migration Act 2023 in relation to removal to Rwanda – include by rule out the use of section 4 and 10 of the HRA . Amendment 16 , page 3 , line 30 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) section 4 and 10 do not apply in relation to provision make by or by virtue of this Act , the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , or the Immigration act . " . this amendment be intend to ensure that the relevant provision of the Human Rights Act 1998 be fully disapplied for both this Bill and for the Illegal Migration Act 2023 in relation to removal to Rwanda – include by rule out the use of section 4 and 10 of the HRA . amendment 17 , page 3 , line 32 , leave out paragraph ( a ) to ( c ) and insert " provision make in relation to the removal or propose removal to Rwanda by or by virtue of this Act or the Illegal Migration Act 2023 . " . this amendment be intend to ensure that the relevant provision of the Human Rights Act 1998 be fully disapplied for both this Bill and for the Illegal Migration Act 2023 in relation to removal to Rwanda – include by rule out the use of section 4 and 10 of the HRA . Amendment 18 , page 4 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( 5a ) this section apply only in relation to the removal or propose removal of a person to Rwanda under this Act or the Illegal Migration Act 2023 . " . this and other amendment to clause 3 be intend to ensure that the relevant provision of the Human Rights Act 1998 be fully disapplied for both this Bill and for the Illegal Migration Act 2023 in relation to removal to Rwanda – include by rule out the use of section 4 and 10 of the HRA . the Immigration act be list in section 61 ( 4 ) of the UK Borders Act 2007 , as amend . clause 3 stand part . amendment 7 , in clause 5 , page 5 , line 12 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) . this amendment would omit the provision that only a Minister of the Crown can decide whether the United Kingdom will comply with interim measure of the European Court of Human Rights . amendment 23 , page 5 , line 13 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) and insert — " ( 2A ) the interim measure be not bind on the United Kingdom , and will have no effect on any provision make by or by virtue of this Act or the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , and shall not prevent or delay the removal of a person to Rwanda under this Act or the Illegal Migration Act 2023 . " . this ensure that the default position be that rule 39 indication be not treat as bind on the United Kingdom and will not prevent removal to Rwanda , but to provide an optional discretion to Ministers . amendment 8 , page 5 , line 15 , leave out subsection ( 3 ) . this amendment would remove the requirement that a court or tribunal must not have regard to the interim measure when consider any application or appeal which relate to a decision to remove the person to the Republic of Rwanda . Amendment 51 , page 5 , line 15 , leave out " not " . this amendment would require court or tribunal to have regard to an interim measure of the European Court of Human Rights . amendment 24 , page 5 , line 19 , leave out subsection ( 4 ) and insert — " ( 4A ) a Minister of the Crown , act in person , may ( but need not ) determine that the duty to remove in section 2 ( 1 ) of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 be not to apply in relation to a person to whom this section apply . " . this amendment be link to Amendment 23 . amendment 52 , page 5 , line 22 , leave out paragraph ( b ) . this amendment remove the definition in relation to Clause 5 of " Minister of the Crown " as a Minister of the Crown act in person . amendment 38 , page 5 , line 23 , after " person " insert " in consultation with the Attorney General . " . explanatory note : this amendment ensure a Minister of the Crown make a decision on compliance with an interim injunction consult with the Attorney General . amendment 9 , page 5 , line 23 , at end insert — " ( 5 ) the Government must , within three month of this Act receive Royal Assent , lie before Parliament a copy of a report set out how this clause be compatible with section 7a of the European Withdrawal Act and the UK ' s obligation to citizen under the Good Friday Agreement . ( 6 ) within three sit day of a report be lay under subsection ( 5 ) the Government must move in each House an amendable motion that that House have consider and approve the report which have be lay . ( 7 ) subsection ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) do not come into force until such as time as both Houses have pass motion under subsection ( 6 ) approve report lay under subsection ( 5 ) . " . amendment 25 , page 5 , line 23 , at the end insert — " ( 5 ) section 55 of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 be amend as follow . ( 6 ) in subsection ( 6 ) — ( a ) omit " where a Minister of the Crown do not make a determination under subsection ( 2 ) " , and ( b ) after " apply " insert " in relation to the removal or propose removal of a person to Rwanda " . ( 7 ) for subsection ( 9 ) substitute — " ( 9A ) where a Minister of the Crown have not make a determination under subsection ( 2 ) in relation to the removal or propose removal of a person to Rwanda , section 4 ( 2 ) of the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act 2024 apply . " ( 8 ) after subsection ( 10 ) insert — " ( 11 ) section 8 ( 18 ) apply to any decision make in connection with this section or section 5 of the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act 2024 . " " . this amendment ensure that the default position be that rule 39 indication be not treat as bind on the United Kingdom and will not prevent removal to Rwanda , but to provide an optional discretion to Ministers . clause 5 and 6 stand part . amendment 58 , in clause 7 , page 6 , leave out line 18 and insert — " " safe country " — ( a ) mean a country to which person may be remove from the United Kingdom in compliance with all of the United Kingdom ' s obligation under international law , and ( b ) include , in particular , a country — ( i ) from which a person remove to that country will not be remove or send to another country in contravention of any international law , and ( ii ) in which any person who be seek asylum or who have have an asylum determination will both have their claim determine and be treat in accordance with that country ' s obligation under international law . " . this amendment be consequential on the removal of Clause 1 and restore to the Bill a different clarification of the meaning of " safe country " for the purpose of the Bill . clause 7 stand part . amendment 4 , in clause 8 , page 6 , line 23 , leave out " Scotland " . the intention of this amendment be to prevent the Bill affect the law in Scotland . Amendment 5 , page 6 , line 25 , after " within " insert " the rest of " . the intention of this amendment be to ensure that any amendment make by any Act result from this Bill would affect only the rest of the UK , and not Scotland ( see Amendment 4 ) . amendment 32 , page 6 , line 25 , leave out " the United Kingdom " and insert " England and Wales and Northern Ireland . " . this amendment be link to Amendment 4 and be intend to remove the application of this Bill to Scotland . clause 8 stand part . amendment 53 , in clause 9 , page 6 , line 38 , leave out from " Act " to end of line 39 and insert " shall only come into force only when each House of Parliament have come to Resolution on the follow motion table by a Minister of the Crown : that the Agreement , do at Kigali on 5 December 2023 , between the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of the Republic of Rwanda for the Provision of an Asylum Partnership Agreement to strengthen Shared International Commitments on the Protection of Refugees and Migrants ( CP 994 ) , a copy of which be lay before Parliament on 6 December 2023 , should not be ratify . " . this amendment aim to remove the treaty section from the bill and ensure there ' s a separate debate on the matter . amendment 59 , page 6 , line 38 , leave out from " force " to end of line 39 and insert " on the day after the Secretary of State have lay before Parliament a statement that the Monitoring Committee under Article 15 of the Rwanda Treaty have be fully establish ( and see section ( suspension of Act if Monitoring Committee not in operation ) ) " . this amendment make commencement of the Act contingent on the establishment of the Monitoring Committee under Article 15 of the Rwanda Treaty . Amendment 33 , page 6 , line 39 , after " force " insert " in England and Wales and in Northern Ireland " . this be a pave amendment for Amendment 34 . amendment 36 , page 6 , line 39 , after " force " insert " , or the day on which a full economic impact assessment for the bill be publish include any financial memorandum sign between Rwanda and the UK relate to the Rwanda Treaty , whichever be later " . this amendment require the publication of a full impact assessment on the cost involve in removal to Rwanda under the bill , include per - person removal cost and the confidential financial memorandum sign between the two country , in advance of the Bill enter into force . Amendment 34 , page 6 , line 39 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) this Act come into force in Scotland on the day after the scottish parliament grant its legislative consent to this Act . " . this amendment would prevent the Bill come into effect in Scotland until after it have be agree to by the Scottish Parliament . clause 9 and 10 stand part . new clause 2 — monitoring and enforcement of condition ( no . 2 ) — " ( 1 ) if the condition of subsection ( 2 ) be meet , then no provision of this Act shall have effect until such as time as each House of Parliament have pass a motion agree that the Act remain in effect . ( 2 ) the condition of this subsection be that the Monitoring Committee have — ( a ) publish a report note that any provision of the UK - Rwanda treaty be not be adhere to by either party , ( b ) publish a report note that the condition under which asylum seeker be be hold in Rwanda be materially different to those in place at the point where the UK - Rwanda treaty be sign , or ( c ) publish a report in the last six month confirm that neither ( 2 ) ( a ) or ( 2 ) ( b ) have in their view be necessary . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section , the Monitoring Committee refer to the Committee establish by Article 15 of the UK - Rwanda treaty : provision of an asylum partnership . " . new clause 3 — effect in Northern Ireland — " the provision of this Act shall have effect in Northern Ireland , notwithstanding section 7a of the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 . " new clause 4 — Court of Session — " notwithstanding anything in this Act the supervisory jurisdiction and the nobile officium of the Court of Session be preserve . " new clause 5 — Monitoring Committee — " ( 1 ) a Monitoring Committee oversee removal to Rwanda must be establish and maintain in accordance with article 15 of the Rwanda Treaty . ( 2 ) the Monitoring Committee must report to Parliament every 90 day from when it be first establish to confirm that the obligation set out in the Rwanda Treaty be be comply with . ( 3 ) if a report make under subsection ( 2 ) either ( a ) be not receive within a 90 - day period or ( b ) do not confirm that the relevant obligation be be comply with , the provision of this Act relate to the removal of person to Rwanda do not apply . ( 4 ) report make under subsection ( 2 ) may be take into consideration in proceeding of any court or tribunal . " this new clause place the Monitoring Committee for the Rwanda Treaty on a statutory basis , require regular reporting to Parliament , and ensure that their finding can be review and can affect the operation of measure in the Act result from this Bill . new clause 7 — reporting requirement — " ( 1 ) within 60 day of this Act receive Royal Assent , and at every 90 day subsequently , the Secretary of State must provide a write report to Parliament set out — ( a ) the number of individual relocate under the Rwanda Treaty , ( b ) the current location and immigration status of any individual relocate under the Rwanda Treaty , and ( c ) the quarterly and total cost incur to transfer individual to Rwanda under the Rwanda Treaty , include processing cost . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must also notify Parliament within 10 day of any direct payment be make to the Republic of Rwanda under the term of the Rwanda Treaty . " this new clause require the Secretary to report regularly to Parliament on the operation of the Rwanda Treaty , and to promptly notify Parliament of any payment make by the UK Government to the Republic of Rwanda under the term of the Rwanda Treaty . new clause 8 — return of individual due to serious criminal offence — " ( 1 ) a Minister of the Crown must lay a statement before Parliament within 40 day if both of the follow condition be meet — ( a ) the Secretary of State have approve a request from the Republic of Rwanda to return to the UK a person previously relocate under the term of the Rwanda Treaty , ( b ) the person specify in ( a ) have their permission to remain in the Republic of Rwanda revoke owe to the person ' s participation in serious crime . ( 2 ) if Parliament be notify of the condition be meet as set out in section ( 1 ) , — ( a ) a motion must be move by a Minister of the Crown to be debate on the floor of the House of Commons , and ( b ) the motion must require the House to — ( i ) consider the statement lay before Parliament under section ( 1 ) , and ( ii ) consider whether or not as a result of the content of the statement , there should be a suspension of the Rwanda Treaty . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section — " the Rwanda Treaty " mean the agreement between the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of the Republic of Rwanda for the provision of an asylum partnership to strengthen shared international commitment on the protection of refugee and migrant , sign at Kigali on 5 December 2023 ; " Minister of the Crown " have the same meaning as in the Ministers of the Crown Act 1975 . " . new clause 9 — removal to Rwanda under the Illegal Migration Act 2023 — " within 60 day of this Act receive Royal Assent , the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament a statement refer to all individual whose asylum claim have be deem inadmissible since the granting of Royal Assent to the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , confirm — ( a ) the number of such individual due to be remove to Rwanda under the Rwanda Treaty , ( b ) the timetable for these removal , and ( c ) the arrangement in place for any such individual not due to be remove to Rwanda during the time period set out in the Rwanda Treaty . " . this new clause require the publication of a timetable for the Government ' s plan to remove the 33 , 000 asylum case accrue under the provision of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 to Rwanda . new clause 13 — suspension of Act if Monitoring Committee not in operation — " ( 1 ) this Act cease to have effect on the day after the Secretary of State have lay before Parliament a statement that the Monitoring Committee under Article 15 of the Rwanda Treaty have ( for whatever reason ) cease to function . ( 2 ) the suspension of this Act under subsection ( 1 ) be terminate ( and this Act accordingly resume effect ) on the day after the Secretary of State have lay before Parliament a statement that the Monitoring Committee under Article 15 of the Rwanda Treaty have start to function normally after a period when it have cease to function . " . this new clause make the operation of the Act result from this Bill dependent on the continued operation of the Monitoring Committee to be establish under Article 15 of the Rwanda Treaty . Amendment 39 , in clause 1 , page 1 , line 2 , leave out from " to " to " the " in line 3 and insert " uphold the intention of Parliament to respect and abide by the Human Rights Act 1988 and International law ( see subsection ( 6 ) ) in respect of " . this amendment reword part of the declaratory Clause 1 . amendment 40 , page 1 , leave out line 6 . amendment 41 , page 1 , line 7 , leave out paragraph ( a ) . this amendment aim to remove the treaty section from the bill and ensure there ' s a separate debate on the matter . Amendment 42 , page 1 , line 11 , leave out paragraph ( b ) . amendment 31 , page 2 , line 4 , leave out subsection ( 4 ) . the effect of this amendment be to remove the reference to the sovereignty of parliament and the assertion that an Act be unaffected by international law . amendment 43 , page 2 , line 6 , leave out " the validity of an Act be unaffected by " and insert " Parliament of the United Kingdom will normally legislate with the intention of abide by , comply with , and implement , international law " . amendment 44 , page 2 , line 7 , leave out subsection ( 5 ) . this amendment leave out the definition for the purpose of this Bill of a " safe country " . amendment 54 , page 2 , line 9 , leave out from first " Kingdom " to " and " in line 11 . this amendment would remove from the Bill text which suggest that Parliament can determine whether the UK be in compliance with international law . Amendment 55 , page 2 , line 14 , leave out from " country " to end of line 19 . this amendment would remove from the Bill text which suggest that Parliament can determine whether the UK be in compliance with international law . clause 1 stand part . I know that the Minister for counter Illegal Migration , my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Mid Dorset and North Poole ( Michael Tomlinson ) , say that he do not watch box set , but here we be once again for the next episode of this drama . it be also the most important one of all , because this be likely to be the final opportunity for this House to consider the Bill . do it work ? will we be able to stop the boat ? can we secure our border ? as member in all part of the House know , I feel passionately that illegal migration be do untold damage to our country , and we have to make sure that the Bill actually do the job . I want to speak to two amendment , but one in particular , and that be the one with respect to rule 39 . let I say at the outset of this debate that I do not believe that our membership of the european convention on human right be sustainable . I think that that will become clear and clear to the british public in the month and year ahead , but that be not the purpose of my amendment today and it be not the subject of this debate . that be a discussion for another day . what we be discuss here be whether we believe it be appropriate for a foreign judge in an international court to impose a late - night judgment , often without the United Kingdom be able to give its own argument or to hear the reason for that judgment ; whether we think that that really accord with the rule of law , particularly in relation to this policy ; and whether we be willing to see the same thing happen again that happen in the summer of 2022 , when a judge do just that , ground the flight and prevent the policy , lead to month , indeed year , of legal action and ten of thousand of illegal migrant break into our country , cost our taxpayer billion of pound , imperille life in the channel and perpetuate this challenge for year to come . I be happy to support my right hon . friend tonight on this amendment , as I do last night . I be on the Council of Europe , so I take quite a lot of interest in this . there be an established legal principle that , in fact , the judge be act ultra vis in 2022 and that it be not in his power to do that . there be also an established legal opinion that our Government could actually have ignore it . how do this relate to my right hon . friend ' s amendment ? I will come on to the exact point that my right hon . friend be make ; they be fair and important one . as night follow day , if we do not make change in this respect , we will find ourselves in a few month ' time in exactly the same position that my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) be in as Home Secretary in the summer of 2022 , wherein the Strasbourg Court could issue one , or potentially many , rule 39 interim measure . the decision about what to do will fall to a Minister — perhaps my hon . and learn Friend the Minister for counter Illegal Migration — and other colleague within Government . the court will be involve and we will find ourselves in a very difficult , indeed intractable , situation . as I have say before , set this scheme in train without know what we would do when that happen be a bit like pull the pin out of a grenade but not be prepared to throw it . this be entirely foreseeable . let we find a way through this challenge . to answer the question from my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) and to address the legitimate challenge that be make to those like I who make this argument , we have to go back to the foundation of the Court . many of my colleague say , " well , it be great conservative and british jurist who be the author of the european convention on human right . why would you want to alter what they create ? " with respect , that be a misunderstanding of what be do when the convention be found and the treaty sign . no one sign up to the Court be able to make binding injunction . in fact , quite the opposite : it be consider at the time and reject . the UK , like all other signatory to the european convention , expressly decline to give the Court the power to make bind interim measure . this be create by activist judge in 2005 , in response to the Mamatkulov and Askarov v . Turkey case , whereby the Court confer upon itself a power that be not give in the treaty . it be a mistake that the United Kingdom have for many year , by convention , go along with the approach the Court have take to itself . do not take my word for it ; take the word of many eminent jurist and lawyer . when this very point be consider in the other place during the passage of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , a not dissimilar point — I will not put word into their lordship ' mouth — be make by the noble Lord Sandhurst , the noble Lord Faulks and the noble Lord Woolf . in a foreword to an important piece relate to this debate , the noble and learn Lord Sumption make a similar and very important point . in fact , the professor of international law at the University of Oxford , Professor Richard Ekins , whom many of we respect highly , have say that to change the current approach be not to breach the rule of law but to defend the rule of law , because we , as signatory to the european convention , expressly object to the approach , which have be confer by activist judge outside the rule of law . we should not be follow through with this . at least the right hon . Gentleman have the strength to be vocal about what he actually believe , which be more than can be say for many other conservative Members . he have make it clear that he could not care less about what the european convention on human right say . will he go far and openly say that this vile , dangerous and inhumane Bill have one purpose , which be to flout international law , and that his party could not care less about the human right of the most vulnerable individual ? it be a pity , but I can not say I be surprised , that the hon . Gentleman sink to those depth and do not present a proper legal argument . have he be listen to I , he would have hear that I do not say anything of the sort . the case that I be advance be far from an undermining of the european convention on human right , although there be many who might wish to leave it . we be defend the original intent of the european convention on human right , and the rule of law , because it be not sustainable for activist judge in Strasbourg to bend and change the original intent of the signatory to that convention , in way that they would never have accept , by invent new power . I want we to defend the rule of law , and in this case it be well defend by say that the Court ' s interim measure be not bind on the UK , either on the domestic plane or on Ministers . it be well that we simply return to the position before 2005 . in fact , I think most of this happen under a Labour Government . be this british exceptionalism ? be the right hon . Gentleman make the case that the ECHR should no long apply only to the UK ? or be he say that it be not fit for purpose across the board and should be scrap entirely ? it seem as if we be have a dialogue of the deaf , because that be not what I say at all . I say that the debate about the european convention be for another day , but the hon . Gentleman be say that the decision of the Strasbourg Court in 2005 to confer upon itself , without seek the consent of any of the signatory to the convention , the ability to impose bind interim injunction on other country be the right way forward and , indeed , that those injunction should be able to be make at the eleventh hour , in the middle of the night , without give reason , without ask for our argument and without even name the judge behind the ruling . that pose very serious rule - of - law question and be a reason why convention such as the echr be increasingly out of step . my right hon . friend be , of course , right that it contradict the long - establish custom and practice that be the accepted basis for the rule of law in this country . he cite Lord Sumption and Lord Woolf , but he might also have cite the constitutionalist a . v . Dicey who , long ago , support by Lord denning and many other after , establish that the relationship between the rule of law and this place be that a polity can make and change law because it have the legitimacy to do so , confer on it by the people . frankly , that mean this House be supreme . that in no way underestimate the significance of international agreement and treaty , but it affirm the significance and sovereignty of this House . I entirely agree with my right hon . friend . as somebody who have serve on the Council of Europe and be proud to do so because of the United Kingdom ' s history of set it up to protect citizen from overbear government , I think it be worth look at the datum on interim measure . in 2019 , 82 request be make to the Strasbourg Court for interim measure against this Government and zero be grant ; in 2020 , 47 request be make and two be grant ; and in 2021 , 51 request be make against this Government and five be grant . that be just seven out of 180 . be the right hon . Gentleman really suggest that this government get thing right all the time , so there should be no capacity to challenge they legally , even when irrevocable harm be on the agenda ? that be not the point I be make . once again , the hon . Lady be not listen . the point I be make be not about the virtue or otherwise of our membership of the european convention on human right , which I have say be a matter for another day . the discussion on the amendment be simply about whether we believe it be right that the Strasbourg Court should confer upon itself , without our consent , the ability to impose bind injunction . there be a separate question , not unrelated , as to how those injunction be make . I would like to believe that most of we agree that do they late at night with an unnamed judge , without give reason , raise serious rule - of - law question . perhaps the hon . Lady disagree with that , but the purpose of the amendment be to enable we to return to a previous position . [ interruption . ] she now have her clip for social medium , so the rest of the debate be largely irrelevant . I want to address the point of law in respect of the Strasbourg Court . the difficulty with the right hon . Gentleman ' s argument be that , under the scheme of the convention , the Court be the body that determine the meaning of the convention . not just in the 2005 case but consistently thereafter , the Court have hold that fail to comply with interim measure amount to a breach of article 34 of the convention . that be the legal difficulty with his argument , be it not ? no . there may be a good - faith disagreement between the hon . and learn Lady and I , but I do not believe that international body and court should be able to grow organically as a result of the decision of activist judge . this be a matter of the rule of law and of parliamentary sovereignty . we in the United Kingdom choose to be a signatory to the european convention on human right , and I do not think it be correct that the Court give itself this power in 2005 . I return to how this matter relate to the policy . first , let we cast our mind back to the summer of 2022 . a rule 39 interim measure be impose by the Court to ground a flight and to prevent we from proceed with the policy . do we think that anything have change in the month and year that have pass ? my conjecture be no . we will be in exactly the same position in a few month ' time unless we take action . we include a provision in the Illegal Migration Act that merely restate the orthodox constitutional and legal position that , in theory , it be at a Minister ' s discretion whether to comply with a rule 39 interim measure . underlie that be the Government ' s legal advice — which I believe to be erroneous , for the reason I have just describe — that they would be in breach of international law not to do so . as far as I be aware , the Attorney General and the Government Legal Service therefore continue to advise Ministers and civil servant that a decision not to support a rule 39 interim measure would be illegal and in breach of the ministerial code . my good recollection be that no Minister should give any indication that they would ignore a rule 39 interim measure . the Attorney General ' s position , as I understand it , be that there be a very small number of case in which it be conceivable that one could do so , but that be a vanishingly slim number of case and situation . as night follow day , if that position be to continue , we would find ourselves in exactly the same situation as we be in during the summer of 2022 . I do not want to be in that position . it would be a huge breach of trust with the british public if we know that something be likely — if we watch this train not speed down the track but move slowly towards we — and have ample opportunity to resolve the issue , but choose to do absolutely nothing . we have kick the can down the road and now there be no more road — at the end of the road there be a precipice . we be move forward with a scheme , but we do not know how to implement it . we be pull the pin out of the grenade , but we have not get the gut to throw it . we need to resolve this and the way to do that be simple : the Government could accept the amendment that stand in my name and those of many other . to do so be not to say that we be leave the european convention on human right . there be respectable international law argument behind the amendment , and I would wager that the Government would have no difficulty in find senior King ' s counsel and former judge in the other place who would support my position — and the Government ' s position , should they choose to adopt it . the Government could change some of the accompany minor documentation , such as the civil service code and the ministerial code . I would not place too much emphasis on those . at the end of the day , this be not about civil servant ; it be about Ministers and the law . a good captain do not blame his sailor . it be on we : we have the power to fix this and we have the responsibility . so let we use the opportunity we have today with the amendment to resolve this situation . if we do not , we will be here in two month ' time , the Strasbourg Court will impose a rule 39 measure and the Government will be scramble around try to resolve the situation , and they will have no one else to blame . I be here to help the Government , to ensure that this policy work , because I , like everyone , at least on this side of the Committee , believe passionately that we have to make this policy work and to stop the boat . so I strongly encourage my hon . and learn Friend the Minister , and indeed the Prime Minister , to support the amendment , and I encourage everyone else on both side of the Committee who share my determination to fix this problem to do exactly the same . I call the shadow Minister . it be a pleasure to serve under your chairship again , Dame Rosie . here we go again : it be day two in Committee for the third asylum Bill in less than two year , and day 643 of the Rwanda psychodrama that the conservative party continue to inflict on our weary and baffled nation . let we not forget that the Rwanda saga start off as Operation Save Big Dog , that desperate and , thankfully , doom attempt to save the skin of Boris Johnson . but then , for some bizarre reason know only to Conservative Members , it do not fade away once Mr Johnson exit stage right — quite the opposite . it take on a life of its own , evolve into an article of faith for the Conservative party , a purity test that have come to define whether or not someone be a true believer , so vast quantity of political capital and untold amount of Government time , resource and energy have be squander on a policy that , at most , might one day enable the transfer of a few hundred asylum seeker to Rwanda . it truly be an absolutely extraordinary state of affair . meanwhile , out there in the real world , food bill be spiral and mortgage be go through the roof ; 7 . 8 million people be on NHS waiting list ; raw sewage be be pump into our river ; and at least 30 , 000 people risk life and limb to cross the channel on small boat . nothing in this Bill will address any of those challenge , not even the last one . as I say yesterday , the Rwanda plan be extortionately expensive , with £ 400 million on its way or commit to the Government of Rwanda , without a single asylum seeker ever have be send there . in addition to that vast sum , it will cost at least £ 169 , 000 to send each individual asylum seeker to Rwanda ; the figure will probably be far high , but the Government be refuse to come clean on that point . the plan be also unworkable , because there be no evidence that send just a few hundred asylum seeker will deter the ten of thousand who be cross the channel each year . desperate people who have risk life and limb crossing continent to escape violence and persecution be not go to be deter by a less than 1 % chance of be send to Rwanda . of course , we know that in addition to be unaffordable and unworkable , the scheme be unlawful , as have be find by the Supreme Court , owe to Rwanda ' s not be , as it stand , a safe country . yet here we be again , be force to indulge the fantasy , fixation and psychodrama of Conservative Members . we have hear that before , but let we address the narrow legal point . do the hon . Gentleman think that it be right for a Strasbourg judge to impose an injunction in the night , on his own , without give the British Government the chance to make their case ? what we be see be complete shambolic incompetence in the asylum system , and if case be not make clearly and be open to legal appeal , legal appeal will come and , in some case , will succeed . on the broad point , the UK be party to a number of international agreement and convention . that reality be extremely important to our national interest . in many case , it strengthen our sovereignty , not weaken it . so Labour Members be clear that politic be about choice , and when we look at the big picture of our country ' s place in the world , it be absolutely clear that our sovereignty and national interest be strengthen , not weaken , by be party to these international agreement and convention . it be deeply troubling that every day seem to bring a new example of the tail wag the dog . we now hear that the Prime Minister be assemble 150 judge and 1 , 000 staff to fast - track Rwanda case through our court . sorry — what ? do he not know that under his leadership and on his watch , the Crown court backlog in this country be at a record high of 65 , 000 ? victim of serious crime regularly wait more than two year for their day in court , so that they can seek justice against the perpetrator . the system be completely break because of 14 year of Tory incompetence and indifference , yet the Prime Minster click his finger and , glibly , be apparently able to magic up 150 judge and 1 , 000 staff . where on earth have those 150 judge be hide all this time ? be they go to be new recruit or be they currently work ? if it be the latter , be they go to be tell to drop everything and transfer to deal with asylum case ? I trust the Minister will be able to answer those question today , but I be not hold my breath . regardless of the operational issue , imagine the impact the Prime Minister ' s glib announcement yesterday would have on you if you be a rape victim who have be languish for year in our broken judicial system . imagine the anger and disgust you would feel at the spectacle of a conservative Prime Minister sacrifice your fight for justice on the altar of his desperate attempt to cling to power by appease his Back Benchers . what an utterly shameful and shabby way for the Prime Minister of our country to behave . on the point the shadow Minister make about political choice , he be valiantly oppose the Bill and he vote against it on Second Reading , just as I do , but do he recognise that give that this be the last session of this Parliament , the Parliament Act can not be engage and plenty will take place in the other place , so the only way the Bill will become law be if Labour make the political choice to say that fighting and frustrate it any long be not in its interest ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his comment , but we have make it absolutely clear that the Bill be unaffordable , unworkable and unlawful . the opposition will never support any piece of legislation that be guilty of those three sin — that be as clear as crystal to we . with pride we vote against the Bill on Second Reading , with pride we vote against the amendment that would only make it even bad , and with pride we will vote against it on Third Reading . my hon . friend be right about the purpose of the Bill , which be one of the most flagrant attempt to directly flout international human right law that we have see . do he agree that that be the only purpose of the Bill before we today ? I thank my hon . friend for his powerful intervention . it be difficult to determine the true purpose of the Bill these day , because it have become embroil in various Tory internal war , fight between faction and certain people ' s leadership ambition , but we know it will not stop the Tory small boat chaos . it be that chaos that have to be stop . the people smuggler gang be trade in human misery and must be stop , but we need practical , sensible , pragmatic measure , rather than the headline - chase gimmick we have see from this Government over the last year and month . the irony of the announcement yesterday about the judge be that , by definition , it be an admission of failure , because it recognise that the Bill will fail to prevent the legal challenge and appeal that the judge will be work on . the Prime Minister ' s announcement yesterday be further evidence of the profoundly troubling way in which the Government be prepared to disregard and disrespect our judiciary . I urge member on all Benches to take careful note of what Sue Carr , the Lady Chief Justice , tell the Justice Committee yesterday : " I ' m afraid that this headline draw matter of judicial responsibility into the political arena … matter of deployment of judge , the allocation of work for judge and the use of courtroom be exclusively a matter for the judiciary and , more specifically , a matter for myself and the senior president of the tribunal . it ' s really important that people understand that clear division . " there speak a true democrat . the shadow Minister know that our view on the Government Benches be that the problem can not be comprehensively tackle without a deterrent ; I can not think of any example around the world where it have be tackle without a deterrent . the shadow Minister have speak before about safe and legal route , and I have ask he question about whether the number use those route should be cap or uncap , so have he think about what the cap level would be ? what would be the number ? it be clear that in order to stop the Tory small boat chaos , we have to smash the criminal smuggler gang . that will be do through enhance co - operation with european partner and ally . the shadow Home Secretary and the Leader of the opposition visit Europol recently . it be hugely important that we get well datum sharing and co - operation with european authority , such as Europol and Frontex , in order to be able to smash the criminal gang upstream . as I will go on to say in my remark , the more we jeopardise co - operation with our european partner and ally by threaten to leave the european convention , the more difficult we make it to have that European co - operation and the more we undermine our own ability to deter the criminal smuggler gang . if someone be look for a definition of counterproductive legislation and policy , this would be the one they would go for . rise — the shadow Minister make a good point about co - operation . he be right that the only way to tackle the problem be through a suite of measure under an umbrella policy but , as my hon . friend the Member for Ipswich ( Tom Hunt ) just describe , an important part of that be deterrence . the brand and the marketing message of the criminal gang be that people will get to Britain and never leave . sadly , that have too often be the case , have it not ? as I say yesterday , there be pragmatic , sensible thing the Government have be do that we support . for example , the Opposition fully support the Albania deal . the fact that removal to Albania be facilitate by that deal have act as a deterrent and lead to a clear decrease in the number of Albanians try to come over . why do the Government not do more of that ? they should do the pragmatic , sensible stuff rather than be suck into endless bun fight about the Rwanda deal , which be unaffordable , unworkable and unlawful . I say to the right hon . Gentleman that it be a question of priority : the Government have limit time , resource and energy , so they should focus it on the stuff that work rather than on the headline - chase gimmick . the mantra have be clear for many month from the Opposition Benches , include from the shadow Minister himself , about the need for safe and legal route . can we have some indication of what level of immigration through safe and legal route would be need to address the problem ? I put it to he that as soon as that cap be reach , the rest will come by boat unless there be a deterrent . on safe and legal route , as a priority I would look at thing like the afghan scheme , which be completely and utterly break . the afghan relocation and assistance policy have collapse and the afghan citizen resettlement scheme never really work . which nationality be always in the top three or four nationality cross the channel ? the Afghans . we need to get the scheme that be currently in place work properly , and then we need to look at international co - operation , work with our european partner and ally , to create a dynamic whereby the United Kingdom do its bit , as part of ensure that those try to cross the channel in small boat do not do so . to draw the shadow Minister back to the amendment and the interim measure of the Strasbourg court , and to build on the question ask by my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , be I right in understanding that the Labour party ' s position be that it do not want to see reform of rule 39 interim measure ? I find that surprising , give that the UK be work in concert with many , perhaps all , signatory of the european convention on human right to do just that . Most of our friend and ally in Europe consider there to be serious rule of law issue arise from the so - call pyjama injunction and , like they , we want to see they reform . would the Labour party abandon that piece of work ? when we enter Government , as I hope we will , everything we do will be base on a test : be it affordable , be it workable and be it legal ? the legal piece have to be base on compliance with our international legal obligation . however , if one cherish something , one also have to be open to change and improve it . it be clear that a global conversation and a european conversation be require about the immigration position in which we find ourselves . if we , in concert with our international partner and ally , can find way to improve the system , of course labour would look to do that . unfortunately , we can not negotiate that deal from Opposition , but we will certainly prioritise that as and when we come into Government . rise — if the hon . Gentleman do not mind , I will make a little more progress and then come back to he . order . it be the convention that any Member wish to intervene should have be in the Chamber from the start of the speech . I know that the hon . Gentleman come into the Chamber a little after the start of Stephen Kinnock ' s speech . thank you , Dame Rosie . it be against the backdrop of chaos , confusion and " party before country " that we consider the amendment before we today . I wish to start by comment on the amendment in the name of the former Immigration Minister , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) . this Bill be riddle with shamefully anti - democratic clause that undermine the rule of law and seek to undermine the convention and value that we on the Labour Benches hold dear . perhaps the most egregious example of this be the admission in the Bill that its provision may not comply with the United Kingdom ' s obligation under international law . indeed , clause 3 explicitly disapplie international agreement , include the 1951 refugee convention and the 1984 convention against torture . the leader of the more moderate conservative caucus , the one nation group , describe this approach as " authoritarian " and " a betrayal " of who we be as a nation . he be absolutely right on both point . our liberal democratic nation be found on the rule of law and our respect for the judicial function ; our international standing be found on our commitment to human right and international law ; and our proud history be found on the delivery of those principle , include , indeed , Winston Churchill himself help to establish Britain as a founder of the 1951 convention . I make the point yesterday — I will make it again now — that it be not for politician to interfere with court judgment , and it be not for the Government to respond in a knee - jerk manner to court ruling that they dislike . that be the behaviour of an autocracy , not a democracy . how on earth can our country be the international standard bearer for the rule of law in the face of , for example , Putin ' s barbarism or an increasingly belligerent China if we be break our own international obligation ? indeed , how can we even hold Rwanda to account on its commitment within this new treaty if we be not practise what we preach ? then there be the real and present danger that this Bill represent to the international agreement that Britain be party to , all of which be central to our national interest . those who be worried about social medium may also find it useful to use their phone in the Chamber to double - check those international obligation , and indeed the original text of the european convention on human right , which state explicitly : " the high Contracting Parties undertake to abide by the final judgment of the Court in any case to which they be party . " from the start , it be intend that there be a check — [ interruption . ] I listen to the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) ; I hope that he will accord the same respect and courtesy to I . do my hon . friend agree that , from the start , it be envisage that it be an important check and balance to involve the court in decision making ? my hon . friend make a very good point . as we have also see in the letter that Nathalie Loiseau send to she about the potential risk that there be to the trade and co - operation agreement , and to a range of other commitment , it be absolutely clear that it be in our national interest to pool our sovereignty with other nation through these convention in order to strengthen our own national sovereignty . I agree absolutely with she on that point . let we look at some of these agreement . first , the european convention on human right be weave integrally into many different part of the Good Friday agreement . the political settlement in Northern Ireland should not be take for grant , so disapplye the echr in british legislation would be play with fire in that regard . the Prime Minister ' s very own Windsor framework , which seek to resolve the issue around trade and Northern Ireland post - Brexit , be agree on the basis of the UK ' s full commitment to the Good Friday agreement . I be sure that the Prime Minister would not want to accidentally set fire to his own carefully craft negotiation . the EU - UK trade and co - operation agreement include clause on important mutual security co - operation , which be reliant on Britain ' s commitment to the european convention on human right . under article 1 and 692 of the TCA , UK withdrawal from the ECHR entitle the EU to immediately suspend or terminate the entirety of section 3 of the TCA . therefore , introduce notwith - stand clause into the Bill mean that the Government would also be dice with the risk of jeopardise security co - operation with our european partner and ally . the irony here be that this very security co - operation and data sharing be of pivotal importance when it come to smash the criminal gang that be behind the small boat crossing . this Bill , which be design to deal with the issue of the small boat crossing and the criminal gang , could undermine the very co - operation that be suppose to be smash those gang — you literally could not make it up . I do not believe that such legislative belligerence be in the interest or the tradition of the conservative party , and I certainly do not believe that it be in the interest or tradition of our own proud nation . the amendment that have be table by the former Immigration Minister would , I be afraid , simply increase all the risk that I have describe , so we on the Labour Benches will be oppose they . let I turn now to labour ' s amendment . again , I stress that we reject the Bill in its entirety and that our amendment be design to limit the damage of this unaffordable , unworkable and unlawful piece of legislation . a major concern of ours be the way the Government be handle the entire Rwanda saga from the point of view of transparency — everything from cost and the processing capacity of the Rwandan Government , to Ministers try to hide the fact that criminal will be send from Rwanda back to the UK , and the fact that the UK may have to take some refugee from Rwanda . our amendment 36 and new clause 7 and 8 be all part of an attempt to force the Government to shed more light on the less clear aspect of the scheme , and to introduce more accountability . amendment 36 would require the Government to publish a full impact assessment , set out the cost per person for the removal scheme , and the confidential financial memorandum already agree between the two country . we believe that the cost per person be far high than the £ 169 , 000 already acknowledge by the Government , and we want Ministers to come clean on that point . new clause 7 would require the Secretary of State to report to Parliament on a regular basis — every 90 day , as with the monitor committee — on the operation of the scheme , include datum on the number of people relocate to Rwanda and the cost incur by the UK Government . similarly , new clause 9 would require regular reporting on the number of asylum seeker declare inadmissible under the Illegal Migration Act 2023 from the point of its entry into force — whenever that may be — and the number of such asylum seeker who be subsequently remove to Rwanda . new clause 8 would impose further reporting requirement on the Government , include on the number of individual involve in criminal activity who have be transfer from Rwanda to the UK . in the event of any such transfer , the Government would be require to table a debateable motion in Parliament , so that mps could consider whether , in the light of the transfer , the operation of the treaty should be suspend . it be important that the british public understand just how many foreign criminal the Conservative Government will be import back into our country as part of this Rwanda deal . further amendment relate to the monitor committee — a central part of the new treaty , which both side be require to set up in order to oversee the operation of the removal scheme , and to provide a mechanism for individual asylum seeker to lodge confidential complaint directly with the committee . the Supreme Court raise initial concern about the capacity of the committee to review complaint in its judgment . our amendment 59 would make the establishment of this committee a necessary precondition for the commencement of this Act . new clause 5 would place the committee on a statutory footing . the monitoring committee would be require to report to Parliament every 90 day , confirm that all the relevant obligation set out in the treaty be be fully comply with . in the event that the monitoring committee either fail to meet the 90 - day requirement or report to Parliament that Rwanda be not in full compliance with any provision of the treaty , this Act would effectively be suspend from be in force until any issue with timing or compliance have be resolve . link to this , new clause 13 stipulate that the operation of this Act should be suspend at any time when the monitoring committee " be not in operation " . finally , new clause 5 state that it be for a Minister of the Crown , and that Minister only , to decide whether to comply with any " interim measure " issue by the ECHR for the purpose of block a person ' s removal to Rwanda . amendment 38 stipulate that , in make such a decision , the Minister in question must consult the Attorney General . the conservative psychodrama of the past 24 hour only go to serve the old political adage : if a Prime Minister be incapable of manage his own party , he must be utterly incapable of run the country . the resignation of not one but two deputy chair last night , follow by a 60 - strong rebellion , illustrate the level of utter incompetence at the heart of his Administration . we know what they say : to lose one deputy Chair could be down to misfortune ; to lose two in one night look like sheer carelessness . at least we might see a bit more of they on their GB News show , discuss day of yore while spoon - feed each other cold bake bean , which be my personal television highlight of 2023 . it also explain quite a lot about the amount of hot air emanating from the Government Benches . I certainly hope to see and hear more from they in this election year . in all seriousness , what on earth be go on ? the country be look on , baffle that the Prime Minister could pay the Rwandan Government £ 400 million for nothing , yet place such little focus on strengthen our security co - operation with Europe to stop the boat in the first place , and he have spend little time improve our break public service or help our struggle household during the cost of living crisis . they be perplexed that the Conservatives be spend so many hour on a piece of legislation that be not really mean to stop the boat ; it be about the Prime Minister get a single plane in the air , with a handful of asylum seeker on it , so that he can say , " look , I do it ! I deliver the Rwanda plan and remove a few refugee . " he think the british people will deliver something to he on that basis . we be perplexed because this be not the behaviour and politic we can afford to expect from a british Prime Minister . these be not the serious policy that will fix our asylum system and make our country a well place — all the headline - chase gimmick over hard graft and get a grip . that be not what the british public vote for . indeed , nobody — not even his own party — vote for he at all . this plan be a con . this Bill be a sham . I urge all hon . member to get behind Labour ' s amendment to limit the damage and to vote against the Bill on Third Reading . it be unworkable , unaffordable and unlawful . if we be to stop the Tories ' small boat chaos and end expensive asylum hotel use , which cost £ 8 million a day , this conservative psychodrama need to end . we need labour ' s five - point plan to end this chaos , start with go after the criminal gang upstream in a new security partnership with Europol . we need a government that put country before party , and we need a general election this spring . it may be helpful if I clarify a few thing . first , if colleague wish to intervene , it be important that they be present from the start of the relevant speech . it be also important that they remain to the end of the speech . secondly , I intend to give priority to those who have amendment down on the selection list — I will then come to other . in addition to the fact that we be discuss amendment , I should explain that , because we be also discuss clause stand part , the debate can range slightly more widely than would be normal , but it be not a Third Reading debate . there will be a Third Reading debate — an hour have be put aside for that — just in case colleague prefer to speak at that stage . I know that Sir Jeremy Wright have an amendment , so I call he to speak . thank you , Dame Rosie . in fact I have two amendment — amendment 54 and 55 — on which I wish to focus my remark . we all understand that the purpose of the Bill be to allow this Parliament to designate Rwanda as a safe country so that people can be remove to it lawfully . in order to achieve that , of course , we require a definition of what a safe country be . the Bill do that in clause 1 ( 5 ) ( a ) , which describe a safe country as " a country to which person may be remove from the United Kingdom " . so far , so good . it seem to I that that be an essential part of the Bill ' s inherent purpose . the part of that subsection ( a ) that concern I , and on which my amendment be focus , be where it say that that be " in compliance with all of the United Kingdom ' s obligation under international law that be relevant to the treatment in that country of person who be remove there " . in other word , the Bill seem to say that the United Kingdom , by say that Rwanda be a safe country , can also deem itself to be in compliance with a set of its international law responsibility . I do not think that can be correct . few in this House be as familiar as I be with the vagary and complexity of international law . if international law mean anything , surely it must mean that it do not lie in the hand of any individual nation state — even this one — to determine its own compliance with it . be it otherwise , international law would not really be international , and it would certainly serve no purpose in contain bad behaviour , as we sometimes ask it to do . I work closely with my right hon . and learn Friend in a number of way , as he know , and I be well aware that he be a former Attorney General . if he be right that it be not for the Government or this House to determine whether measure be compliant , why on earth would they seek and get the Attorney General ' s advice on just that ? my right hon . friend know that the Attorney General be consult on a variety of different legal question , both domestic and international . he would not expect I to disclose any of the advice I have previously give , but I can tell he that the Attorney General do give advice on whether the Government ' s action may or may not be in compliance with international law , but neither the Attorney General , nor , I think the Government , expect to be the ultimate arbiter of that question . the advice be give as to whether it be likely that that action would be in compliance with the law . I will come in a moment to what I think the Bill and the Government can properly do in relation to international law responsibility , but it seem to I that what they can not properly do be set themselves up as judge in their own cause on question of international law . this House would be wrong to pass a Bill that suggest that they could . that be really where my amendment be focused . as I say , there be a good practical reason why we should be nervous about this : because we do sometimes rely on international law to discharge our own policy intent and purpose . not more than 48 hour ago in this place , we be do exactly that . we be say that it be important to criticise the action of the Houthis in the Red sea because they contravene principle of international law . we be say too that we justify our own response to that because it be in accordance with the principle of international law , and quite right , too . we would not have accept the Houthis ' unilateral declaration that they be in compliance with international law when they do what they do , nor should we have , and we would not of course accept a russian legislative Act to say that the invasion of Ukraine by Russia be in compliance with Russia ' s international law responsibility . let I make it clear that I be not , of course , suggest that what the Government have in mind here be in any way comparable to those two example , but it seem that the point here be that to arrogate to oneself the right to declare one ' s own compliance with international law run the risk of , first , other state find comfort in our example and , secondly , undermine our own message in other situation . that make this not just bad law , but bad foreign policy . I be pleased to hear what the right hon . and learn Gentleman have to say on the question of international law . do he share my concern — and I fully accept that I be not as legally qualified as he — that the Government ' s own legal advice say that by state that the Bill be incompatible , it make it compatible ? be that not worthy of the mad March Hare when it come to consistency in stand up for the rule of law ? I suspect that what the hon . Lady be refer to be the statement of incompatibility with the convention on human right and the Human Rights Act 1998 at the beginning of the Bill . of course , that provision be there for a reason : to allow the Government , if they so choose , to act in defiance of those responsibility . that be perfectly proper , and I will come on to explain why I think that be something the Government can properly do . I be concern about something a little different . instead of say , " we don ' t think this be in compliance with international law , but we ' re go to do it anyway . " , the Bill be say , " we think this be in compliance with international law ; it be down to we to decide that , and we have so decide . " that feel to I like something that we could not and should not do . it would be concern enough , in my judgment , if this Bill only try to deem the UK ' s compliance with international law , but it also seem to say that we can deem Rwanda ' s compliance with international law . that be set out in clause 1 ( 5 ) ( b ) , which go on to say that , for the purpose of this Act , a safe country include , in particular , a country " from which a person remove to that country will not be remove or send to another country " . so far so good ; that be essential , to I , to do what the Bill seek to achieve . however , it go on to say , " in contravention of any international law " . again , it can not lie in the hand of this Parliament to decide whether or not a person may be remove to another country in contravention of any international law . it go on in sub - paragraph ( b ) ( ii ) to say that a country would be a safe country " in which any person who be seek asylum or who have have an asylum determination will both have their claim determine and be treat in accordance with that country ' s obligation under international law . " it seem to I that the Bill be seek to say that , if we deem it so , not only be the UK in compliance with its international law responsibility , but Rwanda be go to be as well . that feel to I not valid and somewhat over - ambitious . do my right hon . and learn Friend , who have great experience as a former Attorney General , agree that the deeming provision under the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 create a rather similar situation , because we deem EU law to be UK law ? therefore , on the analogy he have just give , I imagine he would argue — though I think he might even have be Attorney General at that time — that that do exactly the same sort of thing , although I be listen with great interest to the more precise point he be make about the relationship with international obligation , on which I will speak later . I be grateful to my hon . friend for his intervention . I know , Dame Rosie , you would not want I to abuse the privilege you have give we to range slightly more widely in this debate to range quite that widely , so I will not . he be right that I be make a fairly precise point about what this language appear to I to say . I stress that I do not think it be necessary to include this language in order to achieve the objective that the Government have set in this legislation — with which I have some sympathy , although their method make I nervous , and I make no bone about that . bad than unnecessary , it present some danger that I do not think we need to present in order to achieve the Government ' s objective . I suspect my hon . and learn Friend the Minister will tell I in a few moment ' or hour ' time that I do not need to worry about any of this . he may give two reason for that . first , he may say that the Bill do not mean what I think it mean . you will forgive I for say this , Dame Rosie , but I be increasingly troubled that in this place we answer point such as mine by say , " yes , well , it doesn ' t really mean that , and we don ' t really mean that by it . " we should be concern as legislator with what the language we be pass into law actually say , not what we mean to say . I be concerned that what this language say be not in accordance with what I be sure the Minister want to do or what the Government want to do , but it might none the less have that effect , or be take by other to mean the thing that I be concerned about . when the Bill say what a safe country be , it be potentially confuse two different thing . one be deem our own compliance with international law , which I do not think any country should be able to do , and the other be say that Parliament resolve to do something even if it contravene the UK ' s international law obligation , which , go back to the previous intervention by the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) , I do think the British Parliament can do . we as a legislature can resolve to do that if we so choose . we have to decide whether that be a wise and sensible thing to do , with all the ramification it might bring , but as a matter of law it seem to I that the UK Parliament can , if it wish , pass a law to say , " despite or irrespective of our international responsibility , this be none the less what we want to do . " that be not the same as deem our own compliance with international law , which I worry this language almost certainly seem to do . the point I make about the UK Parliament be able to do thing even when they contravene its international responsibility be already in the Bill and reflect in the language of clause 1 ( 4 ) ( b ) , which point out that " the validity of an Act be unaffected by international law . " quite right . we can , if we so choose , deem a country a safe country for the purpose of domestic decision make if we want to . what I do not think we can or should do be legislate to say that we comply with our international law responsibility when we do not — and when , crucially , to achieve the objective of this Bill we do not need to . the second reason the Minister may give for why I do not need to worry myself about all this be that he may say that domestic and international law exist on different plane , and that this legislation be only target in any event at domestic authority , so the Bill could not , even if it choose to try , deem our compliance with international law in actual fact . I would agree with that . it be perfectly true that domestic law and international law operate on different plane , and it be not likely that this Bill could determine any question of international law before any international tribunal . if that be so , though , why include the language ? if it do not have any meaning or legal effect , it do not serve any purpose , but I fear it may send a damaging political signal to other state . the language I be concern about , which amendment 54 and 55 would remove , be either offensive or otiose , and in either respect the Bill would be well without it . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . and learn Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) . I find myself in agreement with much of what he say , and he make his point very forcefully . I rise to speak to amendment 32 , 33 and 34 and new clause 4 in my name and amendment 4 and 5 in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow North ( Patrick Grady ) , and to support the amendment in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) . I also want to comment on clause 3 and clause 5 stand part and the amendment that have be put forward , particularly by the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , in my capacity as Chair of the Joint Committee on Human Rights . I turn first to my amendment , which relate to the impact of this Bill in Scotland , and in which respect I be speak in a personal capacity . my amendment and those of my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow North deal with the extent of the Bill , its extension to Scotland and the date of its commencement in Scotland . we both seek to prevent this Bill ' s extend to Scotland and , in the event that we be not successful in do that , my amendment seek to ensure that the Bill will not extend to Scotland without the legislative consent of the Scottish Parliament and that nothing in it will interfere with the supervisory jurisdiction of the Court of Session or its nobile officium . I will explain what that mean later . we must not forget that the regime this Bill seek to impose , together with the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , be impose on asylum seeker across the United Kingdom , not just those who arrive in small boat on the Kent coast . the UK Government have not forget that , and that be why they want this Bill , with its far - reach and unprecedented ouster clause , to extend to Scotland . accordingly , asylum seeker in Scotland look to our court for protection will find that the court in Scotland have be emasculate in the same way as this Bill emasculate the court of England and Wales . as well as have their jurisdiction oust on certain matter of fact , as be debate yesterday , the scottish court will find themselves unable to apply the Human Rights Act or to respect the United Kingdom ' s obligation under the european convention on human right and other international treaty . I believe that that constitute a serious and unprecedented intrusion on the jurisdiction of the scottish court , and a serious interference with the separation of power between legislature , Executive and judiciary . I do not think that this Parliament should be rubber - stamp the Bill at all , but particularly not in relation to Scotland . what the Bill seek to do in emasculate the jurisdiction of the scottish court in relation to asylum seeker be anathema to the scottish constitutional tradition . People in Scotland do not want it ; they do not vote for it — in fact , nobody in the UK vote for this , because the policy be not in the Government ' s manifesto . in contrast to England and Wales , no opinion poll carry out in Scotland support the Bill . as the great scottish judge Lord President Cooper note in the famous case of MacCormick v . Lord Advocate in 1953 : " the principle of the unlimited sovereignty of Parliament be a distinctively english principle , which have no counterpart in scottish constitutional law " . in Scotland , it be the people who be sovereign . that make a difference to our view of how constitutionalism work and on the separation of power . it be the essence of the scottish constitutional tradition that executive power should not be unchecked . that go back in our history as far as the declaration of Arbroath in 1320 , when scottish noble assert the sovereignty of the people of Scotland in a letter to the Pope tell his Holiness that if the King of Scotland should ever seek to make scot subject to the King of England again , they would kick he out and seek another King to defend he . in Scotland , the sovereignty of the people be our guide principle , not the sovereignty of the monarch . neither our Parliament nor this Parliament be sovereign . it be the people who be sovereign . let I turn to the jurisdiction of the scottish court . this Parliament — this Union Parliament — exist because of the Treaty of Union . Scotland have always have a separate legal system . article xix of the Treaty of Union between Scotland and England protect that separate legal system , include its inherent supervisory jurisdiction and the nobile officium of the Court of Session , which be a power that the Court of Session have to give remedy where otherwise there would be none . since the modern advent of devolution by virtue of the Scotland Act 1998 , the civil jurisdiction of the scottish court , include judicial review , have be a devolved matter and therefore properly one for Scotland ' s Parliament , so I believe that the Bill be a grave intrusion of the civil jurisdiction of the scottish court , and that be the reason for my amendment . the Scottish Government be consider a legislative consent motion . my amendment 34 would ensure that the Bill can not come into force in Scotland without a legislative consent motion . my new clause 4 would ensure that , notwithstanding anything in the Bill — I like a nice notwithstanding clause , and I hope that Conservative Members who have be so excited about notwithstanding clause will support my scottish one — the supervisory jurisdiction and the nobile officium of the Court of Session would be preserve . in that way , I hope to ensure that asylum seeker in Scotland will still have the protection of the court , in accordance with our constitutional tradition . just to explain , the nobile officium of the Court of Session be a noble office or duty of Scotland ' s high court — a sort of extraordinary equitable jurisdiction by virtue of which the Court may , within limit , mitigate the strictness of the law and provide a legal remedy to people where otherwise none would exist . without prejudice to the content of what the hon . and learn Lady be say otherwise , may I simply say in relation to she notwithstanding clause that I be extremely glad that the scottish eagle have land ? I certainly will not be support the other notwithstanding clause in the Bill , but I feel that it be perhaps time that we have one that benefit Scotland for a change . my amendment be design to protect Scotland ' s court and constitutional tradition . they be there to ensure that asylum seeker in Scotland might still enjoy the protection of the court from the infringement of their fundamental right . that be what people in Scotland want , and it have be express repeatedly through the Scottish Parliament . I be , of course , a Scottish MP and a member of the Scottish Bar , and I be here to do what I can to protect Scotland and its legal system from the extraordinary attack on human right and the rule of law that this Bill constitute . however , I be not a scottish exceptionalist . I recognise that — as reflect in the House of Commons Library ' s excellent legal briefing on the Bill , and indeed in the speech that precede mine , by the right hon . and learn Member for Kenilworth and Southam — concern about the impact of the Bill on the rule of law and the constitution be share by many in England , include many lawyer . for every lawyer cite by Conservative Members in favour of the Bill and the draconian amendment to it , they will find two lawyer who disagree . the Library briefing , which be an excellent summary of the different legal view on the Bill , conclude : " tension between the sovereignty of Parliament to legislate , and the role of the court in enforce the rule of law principle that executive body must exercise their power within their statutory limit , may be temper by restraint on both side . if either the court or Parliament cease to exercise such restraint , significant constitutional uncertainty could result . " I believe that if we pass the Bill , this Parliament will have cease to exercise the restraint refer to there — it would be a major departure from such restraint . I predict that , if the Bill pass , we will see what might be an unprecedented constitutional challenge to an Act of the British Parliament . the hon . and learn Lady be make a good point about the check and balance that prevent arbitrary power , and she be right that that be central to our constitutional settlement , but this be not the exercise of arbitrary power , because the Bill , and the amendment to it , be quite specific about their provision . for example , in the amendment table by my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , our separation from the international obligation that I know she hold so dear be very specific to this particular legislation . that be not arbitrary — it be anything but . the Bill seek to carve out a group of people come to our country , or who be in our country , from the protection that the rest of we enjoy . history show we that that sort of legislation can put a state on a pretty slippery slope . that bring I to my argument in relation to clause 3 and 5 stand part . the Joint Committee on Human Rights have not yet have the chance to complete legislative scrutiny of the Bill give the speed with which it have pass through the House , so we have not as a Committee reach a conclude view on the Bill . however , before Christmas and before Second Reading , a Chair ' s briefing paper refer to the legal advice that the Committee have receive be publish , and it be extensively refer to in the excellent legal commentary publish by the House of Commons Library . the briefing say , inter alia , that the disapplication of the Human Rights Act 1998 in clause 3 be very significant . as I indicate a moment ago in my answer to the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) , human right be mean to offer a fundamental level of protection for every person on the basis of their humanity alone . as our Committee have note in a previous report , if those protection be disapplied when they cause problem for a policy goal , they lose their fundamental and universal character . arguably , that be especially the case when they be disapplied in respect of a particular group . in this case , fundamental human right be be disapplie in respect of migrant who come to the United Kingdom without prior permission . bill that disapply part of the Human Rights Act be not unprecedented under this government , I be sad to say . both the Illegal Migration Act and the Victims and Prisoners Bill have seek to disapply section 3 of the Human Rights Act in respect of certain legislation . however , this Bill seek to disapply section 6 of that Act — the obligation on public authority to act compatibly with human right — which have never before be attempt , even by this Government , and represent a significant inroad into human right protection . if we pass the Bill with clause 3 in it , it will effectively mean that this Parliament be authorise public authority to breach human right . that be an awful long way from what this Parliament intend when it pass the Human Rights Act , and what the United Kingdom intend when it sign up to the convention . as we hear at some length yesterday , as a result of parliamentary sovereignty , if we pass the Bill , breach human right would be in accordance with our domestic law . however , it would still violate the UK ' s obligation under the convention , because we can not unilaterally change what the convention say . also , as the Bingham Centre for the Rule of Law have note in its briefing on the Bill , if we disapply the Human Rights Act in the manner propose , we be also breach article 13 of the convention , which entitle people to an effective remedy . I be afraid to say that the amendment to clause 3 table by the right hon . member for Newark , who be no long in his place , would make the situation even bad . his amendment 11 and 12 appear to extend the disapplication of the Human Rights Act to anything do under the Illegal Migration Act that relate to the removal of a person to Rwanda . that could potentially mean that the detention of people await removal to Rwanda and their treatment prior to their removal would not be protect under the Human Rights Act . be that what this Parliament really want to legislate for ? additionally , the right hon . member for Newark want to extend clause 3 to disapply section 4 of the Human Rights Act . as it stand , that clause do not disapply section 4 ; if the clause remain as it be when the Bill become law , it would be open to a court in future to declare that it be not compatible with the convention . that would be through a declaration only : it would not affect the ongoing function of the Bill , or allow removal to Rwanda to be prevent or delay , but this Parliament and the Government would have to decide whether any change to the law should be make . if we amend the Bill to disapply section 4 of the Human Rights Act , again , that would be something that have never be do before , and would far restrict the jurisdiction of our court in say to the Government and the public what their view be on the law ' s compatibility with human right . finally , I also believe that clause 5 should not stand part of the Bill . we have hear a lot today about conservative Members ' concern about interim measure issue by the European Court of Human Rights . the reality be that , no matter what this legislation end up say , it can only affect domestic law . in respect of the ECHR in particular , the UK will remain bind by the convention as a matter of international law . indeed , even if this government — God forbid — be to exercise the nuclear option of withdraw we from the convention , thereby put we in bed with Russia and Belarus , we would remain bound for a further six month after withdrawal take place . I hope they will bear that in mind . at the moment , clause 5 say that only a Minister can decide whether to comply with interim measure , and that the domestic court should ignore they . it remain to be see what a Minister would do , but we all know that the Prime Minister have say repeatedly that he would not let a foreign court — to use his word — prevent flight take off , which indicate that interim measure may be ignore . as I say early , in my intervention on the right hon . member for Newark , interim measure be make under rule 39 of the Court ' s rule of procedure . they do not form part of the text of the convention ratify by the UK , but when we ratify that convention , we sign up to the idea that the European Court of Human Rights be the body that determine its meaning , and since the 2005 case that the right hon . Member mention , it have hold consistently that fail to comply with interim measure amount to a breach of article 34 . interim measure be fundamental to any court — they be issue to protect the position of an individual while their legal right be determined . all this fuss about people in their pyjama in the middle of the night be very silly . judge in the United Kingdom , both in the english jurisdiction and in the scottish jurisdiction , be regularly get out of their bed in the middle of the night to issue interim injunction in England and interim interdict in Scotland . it be a standard part of any legal system , and many of the concern that Conservative Members have express about those interim measure have now be address by the Court in the reform it be propose . any decision of a Minister not to comply with an interim measure would be inconsistent with our obligation under the echr . that mean that if we let clause 5 stand part of the Bill , we will expressly authorise british Government Ministers to act in breach of international law . that be the reality , and I note that accord to the Times , that be the advice that have reportedly be give to the Government by the Attorney General and by the Minister , the hon . and learn Member for Mid Dorset and North Poole ( Michael Tomlinson ) , when he be Solicitor General . that do not surprise I at all ; it should not surprise anyone , because any legal undergraduate would be able to tell they that . as such , in so far as amendment 23 to 25 state that interim measure be not bind , that be inaccurate as a matter of law , and we must understand that they would put the UK directly in conflict with our international legal obligation . Madam Chair , I realise that I have take up a little bit more time than I have intend , but I hope the amendment and new clause that I have speak to would go some way towards ameliorate the Bill . however , even if they be to be pass , I would certainly vote against it . I call the Chair of the Select Committee on Justice . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . and learn Member for Edinburgh South West ( Joanna Cherry ) and my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) . although I will not be support the hon . and learn Lady ' s amendment , I have great respect for the intellectual rigour that she bring on Scots law and its application in this case . I say the same about the point make by my right hon . and learn Friend in relation to his amendment 54 and 55 . I hope the Minister will think seriously about how we deal with that issue — I be sure he will , because serious point have be raise . in a nutshell , I agree with the proposition that while Parliament can , of course , legislate to do whatever it like in domestic law , the simple fact be that one can not legislate away international law obligation or treaty obligation , and it would be misleading to pretend otherwise . I now turn to the amendment table by my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) . I be sorry that he be not in his place , because I have to say that , with every respect , I profoundly differ from his characterisation of pyjama injunction by a foreign court . respectfully , I would argue that that characterisation be both inaccurate and rather unworthy . as be observe by the hon . and learn Member for Edinburgh South West , it be perfectly normal for interim injunction to be issue at difficult hour when the test for they be meet , so we should not say that that be unusual . argument can be legitimately make about the way in which the rule 39 procedure in the Strasbourg Court work , but let we make they on the basis of an accurate construction of what the Court be about , rather than otherwise . I have great respect for the argument that my hon . friend be make , and I defer to his experience and knowledge on this issue . I be genuinely interested in his view : he have describe a judge in the UK issue an injunction late at night in the event of what , in normal circumstance , would be an individual situation . do he really think it be comparable to describe in the same term the act of a Court that be genuinely in another country and a judge who be anonymous and do not publish the rationale for their opinion , which call a halt — with the support of the Government , it must be say — to the policy of the British Government , enact a law pass in Parliament ? surely there be a difference , both of degree and of nature , between the two case . I think my hon . friend need to bear in mind that the application that be make to Strasbourg be also about the circumstance of an individual case , so that be no different . there be a legitimate criticism — one that I have voice in the past — about the procedure adopt in Strasbourg for these application in two area : first , the anonymity of the judge , and secondly , the failure to state reason . from our point of view , that would not be acceptable , but the answer be not to throw out the whole of the judicial and treaty baby with the bathwater . thank to the Brighton declaration that be sign by my noble and learn Friend Lord Clarke of Nottingham , it be possible to make reform follow dialogue between member state , the Council of Ministers and the judiciary of the Court . I be pleased to say that after pressure from the United Kingdom — perfectly properly — the Court itself have indicate that it will to consult on reform to its procedure , which can only be a good thing . that be what I think the balanced position be on that issue . in fact , far than that , there be already propose reform to the interim procedure , which will come into place this year and crucially will remove the anonymity provision and allow contracting party such as the UK to make the argument , as I believe apply in this case , that there be not an imminent risk of irreparable damage . we can fly people back from Rwanda , and that be the argument we need to keep make . my right hon . and learn Friend be entirely correct , and he and I would probably have very happily argue the UK ' s case in Strasbourg on those ground , so let we be realistic about what we be fight against . with respect , a bit of an Aunt Sally have be set up because step be already be take to deal with the objectionable matter relate to rule 39 , but the principle of they be not itself objectionable . secondly , with respect , the characterisation of a " foreign court " be not helpful in these circumstance , because it imply something alien , which it be not the case for international law as a concept or for the Court itself . the fact that it happen to meet in a different place from the UK be inevitable because it have to meet somewhere . we should bear in mind that not only be the UK one of the drive power behind the creation of the convention in the first place , behind the Court itself and behind much of the jurisprudence of the Court , but the UK do actually have share ownership of the Court , along with all the other member state . that be demonstrate not just in the treaty , but in practical way . for example , the british member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe — member of this House and the other place — have a role in the appointment of the judge of the Court . my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) and I serve at one time on the sub - committee of the Assembly that deal with that process , and I like to think that we do so diligently , so there be involvement in that process . a british judge always sit on the Court and be a member of the Court . Judge Tim Eicke , the current judge , be a very distinguished international lawyer , and we be very lucky to have he . two of the recent registrar of the Court , who run its administration , have be british lawyer , and british lawyer appear regularly in case before the Court . this be not an alien body ; it be a Court of which we have joint ownership . it be our Court , along with that of all the other member state of the convention , and it be wrong to mischaracterise it as something alien . certainly , in all international matter , as my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam say , it operate on a different plane , but the tone of comment about its alienness be , with respect , both inaccurate and somewhat offensive . it be also unnecessary for the purpose of this Bill anyway , and that be the point I want to come on to in relation to rule 39 . the amendment table by my right hon . friend the Member for Newark be otiose . they be unnecessary and , frankly , would make a difficult situation bad . as a matter of law , an interim measure under rule 39 be an indication make to the Government of the member state . it be not make to the court of the member state ; it be convey to the Government of the member state concern . therefore , it be for the member of the Government of the member state — the Ministers — to decide what to do about it . I personally take the view that we should be very loth indeed to ignore the finding of the Court on an interim matter . as the hon . and learn Member for Edinburgh South West rightly say , it run the risk of put we in breach of our international law obligation in that regard . however , the truth be that it be a political decision that the Ministers can take . so what the Bill in its current formulation state be actually no more than a statement of the law as it stand , and we probably do not need clause 5 in the Bill . I be not go to die in a ditch over that , because it be simply state what the law be already , but , equally , there be absolutely no need for the amendment from my right hon . friend the Member for Newark to put bell and whistle on otioseness , if I can put it that way . I be loth to interrupt my hon . friend as he be describe not so much the separation of power as the desiccation of power . however , on the specific point he make about his reticence or reluctance not to abide by the advice of the Court — he say Ministers could do that , but he would not — would he on that basis not have do what the noble Lord Cameron do as Prime Minister when he resist the overture from the Court to give prisoner vote ? I would make two point about that . in fact , I support the noble Lord Cameron in that regard because it be a political decision . it be also worth look at the practical politic . although we be for a period of time at variance with the Court , no harm be do to the polity of the United Kingdom in that regard . no harm be do to the interest of the United Kingdom and no terrible international consequence for we flow from it . I think the Court get it wrong on that occasion , and one of the problem be that there be no appeal system in the Strasbourg Court , so we have to wait until some future decision go a different way . I think many of we take the view that , in reality , the Court as currently constitute in Strasbourg — it be perhaps less activist , if I may say so , than its predecessor — might well have find differently in the prisoner voting case . however , the fact be that UK Ministers take the decision , and they do what be right in the UK , which be support by those in all part of the House , and no harm be do . so the idea that some terrible consequence will flow for the UK because of the ability to seek rule 39 interim measure be just misplace . would my hon . friend reflect on this fact about prisoner voting ? I discuss the matter with the noble Lord Cameron when he be Prime Minister at the time , but it be regard by the noble Lord Clarke of Nottingham as a " particular political policy " — I think those be the word he use . how would my hon . friend describe the issue of illegal migration ? would he not regard that as a particular but very important political policy ? that be why , as it happen , I will not vote against this Bill , because although I have some misgiving , there be a legitimate concern that need to be deal with in relation to illegal boat . however , the simple fact be that that be not a reason for the blanket derogation , or the blanket removal of ECHR protection , that be propose in a series of amendment . that be the difference . my hon . friend and I be at one , but sometimes a mixture of politic and law arise in these matter . the point I be make be that , frankly , if any Government want to take the political risk of ignore an interim measure , they can do so under our law as it stand . it happen that they effectively do so on prisoner voting , so they could do that now if they want to . I be not go to advise on that , because one have to be very wary not to come to view that may very often not be fact - specific when individual decision be make . I do not want to prolong the discussion about prisoner voting , but like my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) , I remember have conversation about it inside Government . I think it would be fair to describe the situation as one in which the UK do not at any point refuse to comply with the judgment , would it not ? we have perhaps adopt a more augustinian approach to compliance : we just have not quite get around to it yet . I think that be right . as I recall , the UK Government put a motion before this House , which the House reject . so we have a perfectly legitimate legal argument that we have take step to comply , and Parliament , as it be entitle to , decide otherwise . that be why the whole of my argument with the amendment from my right hon . friend the Member for Newark be that they be an Aunt Sally — a complete red herring compare with the real issue we be concern with — and I urge hon . member on both side of the Committee to reject they . finally , I have misgiving about this Bill , and I speak about that on Second Reading . I say that it stay acceptable — just — and I maintain that position . my right hon . friend quote the noble Lord Sandhurst , a very distinguished lawyer in the other place . I should say that he be a personal friend of mine . the noble Lord Sandhurst be chair of the research committee of the Society of Conservative Lawyers , and I happen to chair the executive committee of the society . Lord Sandhurst and Harry Gillow , a fellow member of the society , publish a very useful pamphlet about the impact of this Bill , and they have update it in the light of these amendment . their conclusion , with respect , be that " the Bill go as far as reasonably possible without risk collapse of the Rwanda scheme as a whole " . they go on to say in their pamphlet that the Bill as draft represent the good chance of success for the migration and economic development partnership with Rwanda . so they be on the same side of the argument as I and say that the amendment propose by my right hon . friend the Member for Newark take it over the line in term of be able to deliver the partnership scheme and risk collapse the whole scheme . it be ironic that my right hon . friend talk about blow up the Bill because the truth be that his amendment will blow up the deal with Rwanda , because the Rwandans have make it abundantly clear that anything that breach international law will be unacceptable to they and they would withdraw from the agreement . not only be the propose amendment legally unsound and otiose , then , but they be ridiculously bad politic as well because they would defeat the objective of those who want to see people be move to Rwanda in order to deter the boat . so on both legal and political ground I urge the Committee to reject the amendment and leave thing as they stand . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , Chair of the Justice Committee . he say that at time we will see a collision between , or an interface with , politic and the law , and I hope that what arise from my contribution be that there be a third element , which be principle . throughout the passage of this Bill , and indeed some of the precursor to it , we have advance a number of principled position , one of which challenge the basis of the legal aspiration contain in the Bill , while another rightly make the challenge that it do not matter how hard some might suggest that this be the most robust piece of legislation if it do not do what it be intend to do and be not go to work , and that it be an unprincipled place to be with the british electorate to suggest that all these step be in earnest and have some virtue while know that they be inconsistent and will not work . I make those point during the passage of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 , and Ministers on the Front Bench at the time tell I that I be entirely wrong , that there be no need to strengthen the provision and that that Bill would do what they say it would . yet now I hear , throughout discussion on this Bill and in this Committee , the very same people who then occupy the Front Bench adopt the same argument that we deploy for the Nationality and Borders Bill . I still find it thoroughly inconsistent in the context of this Bill that our Government have reach the position where they have an agreement with Rwanda that also involve our country accept refugee from Rwanda , which be therefore a country deem capable of produce refugee . it be incongruous to I that a country deem safe by this Parliament should be capable of produce refugee from that very same country . I have not hear a robust argument as to how that be not an inconsistent position . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for give way and give I a chance to put he right . I offer the example of the transit mechanism that be in place , whereby Rwanda be already host refugee from Libya — Rwanda , in its generosity and safety , be host hundred of thousand of refugee . that be how . if the Minister be prepared to say that the only refugee who can come to the United Kingdom from Rwanda be those who have be produce as refugee from other country , that be an absolutely fair point , but I do not think that be the point he be make . I be very happy to let he intervene again but I genuinely do not think that be the point he be make . the point I be make be that it be entirely inconsistent to say on the one hand that we will accept refugee from a country and on the other hand to deem that country as safe . I accept our right to do it , however , and I do not quibble with the Government ' s aspiration that Rwanda be a safe country . I do not quibble with that ; I just say that there be a complete juxtaposition between on the one hand say it be safe and on the other accept refugee from that very same country . I recognise the nature of Committee stage , but I make the point again to the shadow Minister that this be not about his valiant opposition in Committee or on Third Reading , or what pass on second reading ; it be about the Labour party ' s opposition on this Bill , which I have no doubt will fold in the other place . the political choice will be the Labour party ' s to make ; there be no second session or additional session of this Parliament . there will be no Parliament Act available to pass the Bill and it be go to be torture in the other place . the Bill will be torture in the other place and the only way it will emerge or emanate from this Parliament be if a political calculation be make by the Labour party that there be too much political cost in opposition to the Bill and they draw stump and allow it to pass . I reiterate that point ; I be say it very clearly now and I suspect that in a number of month ' time the point that be be ignore today will become quite acute in our political discourse . I apologise if I do not fully understand the hon . Gentleman ' s point in his question to I when I be make my remark . it be specifically about the other place . what I would say to he be that Labour Members of the other place will give this Bill the scrutiny that it deserve and will hold the Government to account . the Illegal Migration Act 2023 end up go through and get Royal Assent in spite of very severe and serious reservation , but of course we recognise not only that in the other place we have the duty to scrutinise but that we be responsible for ensure the proper functioning of Parliament across the board . I say to the hon . Gentleman that I do not think this Bill will be treat in any way differently from any other piece of legislation that would go to the other place , at least from the point of view of my colleague there . I be glad to accept that intervention , and the shadow Minister have make his point and I have make my point . I suspect we will find as much safety in the point that have just be make as in that of those who stand bullishly and say that this be the strong , most robust piece of legislation ever , irrespective of whether it work . I just put that on the record . as member will be aware from Second reading , we have concern about the operability of the Bill in the light of the UK ' s withdrawal from the European Union and the legislative framework that surround that relationship . that be why our new clause 3 be a notwithstanding clause . I know that we have have some humour around notwithstanding clause from the hon . and learn Member for Edinburgh South West ( Joanna Cherry ) , but that notwithstanding clause be there because we have concern , in contradiction to the Government ' s position , that the claim that have be make in this House and the position that the Government have deploy be not sustainable legally . our amendment state : " the provision of this Act shall have effect in Northern Ireland , notwithstanding section 7a of the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 " , amend in 2020 . that be important from a principle perspective as a Unionist and from a practical perspective as a Member of this Parliament who believe that our immigration policy apply equally across the United Kingdom — it always have apply equally across the United Kingdom . the worry be that the Government be blindly ignore our concern and allow a situation to develop that will cause a fracture in the immigration policy , which until this point have apply equally across the United Kingdom . I have engage with the Minister on this issue and I be grateful to he for both make the time available and the courtesy with which he always approach these issue . colleague will recall that we raise this issue on Second Reading and the Minister give a commitment , which fundamentally come in two part : that the Government have never accept that the right chapter of the Belfast agreement engage immigration policy , and furthermore that the Government have in the past robustly defend the position that the right chapter of the Belfast agreement do not engage immigration policy and have win . they have advance that argument in court and have win . the argument that the Government be put forward be predicate on article 2 of the withdrawal agreement — that there be " no diminution of right " for the people of Northern Ireland whenever the United Kingdom leave the European Union . as a consequence , and give that they say the right chapter do not apply to immigration , they say there be no diminution of right , so this situation be not capture by article 2 . we engage with the Government — rise — I will not take an intervention at this stage , because there be a few element that I want to get out clearly and cleanly . I will then be happy to give way . the Minister put forward his point , and we exchange position on Second read about the potential of an update legal note . I have to say in all candour that the Minister and the Government have be forthcoming in more formally address this point in term of article 2 of the European Union withdrawal agreement alone , and not article 7 . let we be clear : we as a national Parliament be consider on a national basis our national immigration policy , and our amendment be intend to elicit a response from the Government . eye wide open , they could choose to ignore we at this point , to dismiss the concern that have be raise and ultimately leave it to the court to decide and the judiciary to determine whether there be cause for concern . or they could take the simple step on immigration ground alone to disapply section 7a of the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 . that be the choice . yesterday I share with the Minister — I share it with the Committee today — the detail of a High Court case in Belfast . it be an application for judicial review by Aman Angesom , and it be interesting reading . paragraph 94 of that judgment state clearly : " the combined effect of section 7a of the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 … and article 4 of the Protocol limit the effect of section 5 ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) of the EUWA 2018 and Schedule 1 , para 3 of the same Act which restrict the use to which the Charter of Fundamental Rights and EU General Principles may be rely on after the UK ' s exit . thus , the Charter of Fundamental Rights remain enforceable in Northern Ireland and fall within the ambit of article 2 ( 1 ) of the Protocol . " contain within the charter of fundamental right be article 18 , the right to asylum . everything we have see from the Government have engage the discussion around the right chapter of the Belfast agreement . it have not engage the consideration that be resolve and share in paragraph 94 of that Belfast High Court judgment , which have a completely separate legal construction for the Government ' s ambition for how this Rwanda Bill will not apply to Northern Ireland . the Minister have say clearly on the Floor of the House that the Bill will apply in full in Northern Ireland in the same way as it do in the rest of the United Kingdom . new clause 3 be our attempt , first , to get the Government to rule out the concern that have be raise by agree it . then , if they should not do so , they should at least articulate their intention , their position , what they believe to be the case , why they believe that interpretation and why the judgment from Belfast be wrong . I raise those issue on a number of level : as a parliamentary spokesperson on home affair and somebody who have engage on immigration issue for a while , as someone who have vote against previous attempt because I do not believe they be the right approach , and as someone who vote against the Bill on Second Reading because I still do not believe it be the right approach . I also raise those thing as a representative for Belfast . believe it or not — I say this with no alarm and no theatric but as a matter of record — House of Commons Library figure from September point out that , across the entire United Kingdom , Belfast have the second - high number of asylum seeker , house within our city . we have 78 asylum seeker for every 10 , 000 of the city ' s population . I be not be alarmist about that and I will not over - egg it ; I be just make the point that these be important issue , and the unity of our immigration system be important . the protection of our border be an important issue in immigration term . Heaven know , we have have enough difficulty around the creation of a trade border in the irish sea that we be have to deal with . we can not casually , or mistakenly , or through misplaced hope , walk ourselves into the creation of an immigration sea border in the Irish sea because the Government fail to accept the strength of feeling on this issue , the cause for concern surround it and the legal and judicial opinion that have be give that leans into it . this be our opportunity to put it right , and we should take it . I be about to finish , but in fairness I do indicate to the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) that I would give way , and I mean no discourtesy , so I will . I appreciate the case the hon . Gentleman be make . my concern be that the Angesom judgment — I look it up after he and I talk about it — state : " the applicant and respondent both agree that the right , safeguard and equality of opportunity enshrine in Strand Three of the GFA do not exclude asylum seeker . " the Home Office , which bring the case , accept that the Good Friday agreement extend to refugee in Northern Ireland , yet with this piece of legislation the Government be seek to exempt they from those right and therefore undermine the Good Friday agreement . I just want to clarify my reading of the ruling he mention . the hon . Lady be entirely right in the quote that she share . it be fair to say that the Government win that case . we therefore do not see the Government — indeed , they do not have any rationale to do so — take forward an appeal to defend some of the point that they may well have choose to defend , but she highlight a frailty in the position , if the Home Office be not accept a position that it have defend in other case by say that the right chapter be not engaged . that be a frailty of the Government ' s position , and that be why , in fairness , the hon . Lady have table her own amendment . it be not as fatal as our new clause 3 , in term of the notwithstanding provision , but it be at least ask the Government not to proceed with the Bill until they be in the firm position to publish a position . this House have agree that that be the basis upon which we should proceed . I have be in this place for almost nine year . there be many occasion when this House have agree to proceed in the face of what I believe to be well - ground , politically support and principled decision . it be not an amendment I take comfort from , but I very much look forward to hear what the Minister have to say , give the day that this be and the potential for Third Reading this evening . I speak yesterday to the amendment that stand in my name and be potentially subject to division later , so I will not trouble the Committee on that . my amendment 58 would amend clause 7 to preserve a small element of clause 1 — namely , the definition of a safe country . I listen carefully to the reasoned argument of my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) , whose position be similar to mine , except that he take exception to part of clause 1 that I want to retain . I would rather get rid of the rest of clause 1 , because it be bad lawmaking , but I will come back to that in a moment . I might have an answer to my right hon . and learn Friend ' s sensible question of why the definition of a safe country in clause 1 ( 5 ) ( b ) ( ii ) contain reference to the other country ' s " obligation under international law . " it be simple : that have to flow , because unlike many people ' s understanding of this scheme , it be not about the offshoring of UK processing , but the wholesale handing to another country of the determination of application . that be why the measure be in the Bill . I hope that give he some satisfaction . it be why , in consider my amendment , I decide to retain the entirety of subparagraph ( ii ) by move it to the interpretive clause towards the back end of the Bill . it be the only part of clause 1 that I could see have any function whatsoever . I understand the argument that my right hon . and learn Friend be make , and I will not be dogmatic about the approach that I set out early . be there not a danger , if we retain the language that he be refer to , that we open up another channel of legal challenge , which be exactly what the Government be seek to avoid ? if the question become , " be Rwanda in compliance with its international law responsibility ? " , that be something else that someone may choose to argue if they wish to resist their transfer to Rwanda . my right hon . and learn Friend be absolutely right . I think I have say outside the Chamber that , when it come to the passage of statute , the principle of " less be more " be not only fundamentally conservative , but fundamental to good lawmaking . although the Bill do not weigh in at a heavy number of clause — it have a mere 10 — we as parliamentarian have a continue duty to demonstrate economy . any clause — in this case , clause 1 — that be title " introduction " should give we all pause for thought , if not break out into a cold sweat . it seem to I that the language in clause 1 to 6 would belong well in a White Paper or an accompany policy document . we know what the purpose of the Bill be . we have read the treaty , and most of we will have read the policy document that accompany the Bill ' s publication — that be where such language belong , not in a Bill . that be not just because I have a tidy and ordered mind — well , I try — but because of the very point make by my right hon . and learn Friend : the more word we put into legislation , the more opportunity we give for their litigation and justiciability , and the argument that will then go before the court about fundamental issue at a high level that , in my view , really should not be the province of litigation . it be for the contracting party to a treaty to agree its term and sign the document , and then either directly , as in the case of Rwanda or , in our dualist system , via the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010 — the CRaG procedure that be ongoing — the treaty will come into force . so , to use one of my favourite wartime adage , I must ask my hon . and learn Friend the Minister , for whom I have great esteem : why be our journey really necessary ? in my view , clause 1 need to go , save for the retention of clause 5 . although we will have a stand - part vote anyway , I table amendment 27 just to emphasise my extreme distaste for clause 1 . it be a distaste base on the fear that this somehow become the norm and we start to see legislation of this nature proliferate . let we start with clause 2 , because that be what the Bill be all about : the safety of the Republic of Rwanda . that be where it should begin . what clause 2 say be clear , and I speak to it yesterday . I turn now to clause 3 , which throw up a series of interesting question . I be not a particular fan of section 3 of the Human Rights Act , because I never like the read - down provision , which draw the justice — the Court of Appeal and the Supreme Court in particular — into a province where they be act almost as a constitutional court . we have see it happen : the read - down provision where judge in effect pass and reinterpret the will of Parliament . it be a sticky and dangerous place for the Court to go , and I do not like it . if I have have the opportunity and we have do what we say we would do in the manifesto , which I help to write , we would have update the Human Rights Act by now . we could have get rid of section 3 , so we would not have need to refer to it in this ad hoc way in the Bill . it be a horrible echo of that Bill of Rights , which happily never see the light of day — it do not even have a second reading , thank goodness — and perhaps some of what I be say in the context of these amendment and the stand part debate be an echo of my deep distaste for aspect of that fail legislation . why have we get clause 3 in the Bill ? I can see what the Government want to do — they want to avoid argument relate to the Human Rights Act — but I be afraid that they can not get out of jail . as people have an individual right to petition to Strasbourg anyway — I entirely agree with my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) that we help to set up that court and have direct ownership of it — we be in effect send the argument to that so - call foreign Court . of course , the danger in allow petition to go to Strasbourg without any airing of the argument in domestic court be that we do not really get that margin of appreciation evidence that be so crucial for the Strasbourg Court . I do get frustrate by inelegant , inaccurate comparison between the Luxembourg Court — the Court of Justice of the European Union — and the Strasbourg Court , which be a very different place . we have a much wide margin of appreciation , much big discretion and much more room in which to make argument of interpretation and context — indeed , political context as well — about the way in which we do thing in this country . perhaps it be no coincidence that the number of time the United Kingdom be find to be in breach of the convention be vanishingly small . we have hear about prisoner right — more case , anybody ? we might remember the Abu Qatada case , which be on all four with what we be deal with here . we solve the problem by make sure that Jordan have a fair trial system . if I be right , I think Abu Qatada be try and acquit in Jordan , but the point be make . that be the point on all four with this Bill : if we be to rely on the process of another country , get they right in order to be compliant seem to be the good way forward . that be why the Government ' s treaty approach be to be commend . so , no , I do not see the need for clause 3 — get rid of it . we will end up with these argument whether we like it or not . I turn to clause 5 , which be another clause that , in the word of my hon . friend , be just unnecessary . I do not see how interim measure equate in any way to the bind nature of final judgment , which article 46 of the convention draw we to , or indeed anything different from the approach that we take to interim injunction in domestic case that High Court judge , county court judge — judge of all shape and size — will be enjoin to create or refuse on ex parte or inter parte application . in the context of the debate about interim measure , it be important to pray in aid the work do in the plenary session of the European Court of Human Rights last year . the rule will be change , with that come into effect in 2024 . may I ask my hon . and learn Friend the Minister to work with colleague in the Attorney General ' s Office — his former Department — and indeed the Lord Chancellor , to ensure that the Council of Europe and the plenary session of the Court get on with implement these change ? the change to interim measure be really important . first , the limiting of the granting of interim measure to " exceptional circumstance " — those word do not currently exist in the definition of rule 39 — will change the ball game at a stroke . secondly , there be the end to anonymity for judge , which be a proposal that will be enact . finally , and importantly , there be the opportunity for party to the proceeding to request the court to reconsider its decision . so the United Kingdom will have an opportunity to say , " no , there be no imminent risk of irreparable damage here . we can fly people back from Rwanda if there be a problem . " in any event , because of the measure that we be take in the Bill , we will not be send people who be vulnerable or at risk — those who might be terminally ill , pregnant or have some serious condition , whatever it might be — to Rwanda in the first place . we have get the argument to deal with rule 39 and we should have the self - confidence and the ability to make our case . I think that the reform to rule 39 will be significant . I be delighted to have follow the hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) , who make a thoughtful contribution . he and I have have some difference of opinion about thing in recent day , but he always couch his argument in a respectful way , and for that I thank he . first , do my right hon . and learn Friend understand that there be those who argue that the rule 39 indication be be use by the Strasbourg Court in a way that be not bind ? have he hear that argument , and do he agree with it ? secondly , with regard to how people react to the manner in which the propose reform be be do , can he speak with authority — not that he do not have his own authority — by quote to we any specific document that demonstrate that the whole thing be now more or less sew up ? I have source that I be look at to research this speech . I will send my hon . friend the link that I have to the European Court web page that deal with several meeting hold in the summer and November last year where the proposal be agree . now , the question be implementation in 2024 . the Court have not be specific about precisely when these reform will be bring in . therefore , now be our opportunity not just as a Parliament but as a Government , together with other member state , to say , " look , these be welcome . can you please bring they in ? " hopefully , it will bring they in a way that dovetail with the eventual come into force of these provision . my hon . friend make an important point , and I will send that information to he . on the bind nature , I make the point that these be not final judgment , so they be not bind in the sense that article 46 bite , and therefore we have a prisoner vote scenario . however , procedurally they have to be abide by , since as a matter of procedure in our own domestic court , if an injunction be pass , it will be potentially a contempt of that court for any party to those proceeding to do something that would defeat the injunction . my hon . friend will know that . for example , if there be an injunction to prevent the removal of a particular asset from the jurisdiction , remove it would frustrate the whole purpose of litigation and would be contempt of court . my hon . friend get the point . that be why it be not necessary to add clause 5 . we all know the argument . if we do add it , we get the unfortunate consequence of have to consider the ministerial code and the civil service code . I agree with my hon . friend — I take the view at the time of the United Kingdom Internal Markets Act 2020 that the drafting of part 3 , which never become law , be not a breach of the ministerial code or the civil service code . it be entirely in order , and we be able to do that . that be when I part company with my good friend Sir Jonathan Jones , the former Treasury solicitor . I do not agree with he about that . I know my hon . friend would approve of that . there be other part of part 3 of the 2020 Act that we need to bring forward in legislation to help our colleague such as the hon . member for Belfast East , who nod sagely from a sedentary position . we need to do that . we bring forward that legislation and the Northern Ireland Protocol Bill as a way of leverage the negotiation , and we be successful . we manage to sort that out through the joint committee between my right hon . friend the Member for Surrey Heath ( Michael Gove ) and Maro š Š ef č ovi č , which come to a conclusion on the protocol . from the Protocol Bill we have the Windsor framework . we have different view about that , but that Bill be not necessary . that be why I say in all candour to my hon . and learn Friend the Minister that we be use the Bill not as a way to leverage negotiation but as a direct enactment of policy . that be why we have to be very careful about it . I now come to the point make by the hon . member for Belfast East and the intervention from the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) . we can not ignore the Northern Ireland dimension . we have see two very good , nuanced argument , first about the interaction between the EU charter of fundamental right and Northern Ireland law , and secondly about the position of the european convention itself and its centrality to the Belfast / Good Friday agreement , which I think we all agree be a fact , whatever our view . to come back to the point about the EU dimension , the Supreme Court be clear in its judgment about the rwandan application relate to case before it , that there be no role for retain EU law . what the Court say be very clear . the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 be clear that retain EU law no long apply to the procedure directive , which be the particular directive that we be talk about . however , the hon . member for Belfast East be right to sound the alarm bell to make sure that we do not inadvertently end up in a position where our immigration law be divide or complicate by the EU law factor , which be undeniably an issue in Northern Ireland law . I be grateful to the right hon . and learn Member for his contribution . he would accept that the argument around the particularity of Northern Ireland , should an application come from Northern Ireland , be not consider by the Supreme Court in detail . I be not say that I be right , but for as long as we have an undetermined position of the Government on one hand juxtapose with some advocate in Northern Ireland on the other , we need to get it settle . we need to be sure about the position . that be my point . the hon . Gentleman make a powerful point . I hope that be take up in the other place as well . as Chair of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee , I want to discuss that far with he and with Ministers in the Home Office or the Northern Ireland Office — directly with the Home Office would probably be the good way forward . that open up the point make by the hon . and learn Member for Edinburgh South West ( Joanna Cherry ) about the interaction of Scots law with all this . she be not wrong to remind we that scot law look at parliamentary sovereignty differently from the law of England and Wales . we can not get around that . however , I would qualify her remark by say that that be overcome by have a United Kingdom Supreme Court , which have at the moment two very distinguished Scots lawyer , in the form of the president and vice - president , who understand these principle deeply . at any time , the composition of that Court will include senior scot lawyer , and it also have a senior judge from Northern Ireland , Lord Stephens . the whole function of the Supreme Court be to bring together the slightly differ concept of constitutional law that undoubtedly exist in our jurisdiction and strike the right balance , base on restraint — we come back to that word again . I will not labour the point I make yesterday , but my hon . and learn Friend the Minister know that he be walk a tightrope to get this legislation right . anything that smack of a lack of restraint , such as the amendment table by hon . friend — I say oblige thing yesterday and I will repeat they today — do not follow that sense of restraint and balance . it be about the risk of an imbalance not just between the court of England and Wales and this Parliament , but between the differ jurisdiction of the United Kingdom . that should give we all pause for thought , particularly those of we deeply committed to our Union and who believe in this United Kingdom . I be not say that my hon . friend be deliberately try to undermine that , but I be sound a word of warning about tread too heavily down this path of exceptionalism and go too far in normalise what be the exceptional circumstance of withdrawal from the EU . I should know about that because I sit on that Front Bench make the case for many of the provision in the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act that be cite by my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) and other . those be exceptional time . I know that this be an exceptional global challenge , but before I conclude my remark , I will simply say that we need to tread carefully . if we do not do so , in try to deal with an external problem we will create internal , constitutional and legal problem of our own . I do not think that any self - respect Conservative Government would want to do that , and no self - respect Parliament would want to follow that . for those reason , I urge right hon . and hon . member to reject many of the amendment that complicate the Bill , and to follow the maxim that less be more . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . and learn Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) and many of the colleague sit next to he who have bring an immense level of legal expertise to their concern about the Bill . let I try to offer something different , as somebody who be not legally qualified : a lay person ' s view or perspective on what the Bill be do , in particular why I table and will speak to amendment 9 , and why I support the amendment in the name of my Front Bench colleague . this be not about the r of refugee or even the r of Rwanda ; it be about the r of right — the right we enjoy that protect those freedom and liberty that so many of we fight for , be passionate about , and believe be intrinsic to a good life . the Government state that the Bill be : " a clear statement of Parliament ' s view that Rwanda be safe , ' notwithstanding ' all specify domestic legislation and the common law , and any alternative interpretation of international law include customary international law " . for those of we who be not qualified , the word " notwithstanding " be do an awful lot of work to justify the diminution of right for people in our country and the concept that somehow international law do not protect we . so much of the anger we have hear about the idea of a foreign court have come from it be about the European Court of Human Rights : that it be an affront to our democracy that that organisation be part of protect those right , liberty and freedom on which we depend . how dare Winston Churchill sign we up to such a thing ? how dare he believe that work with other country be the way to protect those right ? as he say : " in the centre of our movement stand the idea of a Charter of Human Rights , guard by freedom and sustain by law . " the scoundrel . what sort of right be he try to protect ? what sort of abuse by the state do he dare to think we might need a court to uphold for we ? the right to family life ? a travesty , surely . the right to privacy ? I mean , goodness I , what a terrible thing to be concern about . the right to freedom from torture or the right to liberty , or even the right to freedom of thought ? well , no wonder we need to look at all this again . how terrible those thing must sound to those of we who be not legally qualified and who can not see the rub there . let I to try think through a real world example of why those right might be uphold by a third party . one could think of somebody , perhaps a Member of this House who do not have the respect and courtesy for other people speak in this debate to even stay and listen to they shortly after he have speak ; somebody who think that the rule do not apply to he , that the treatment of other be not something that matter and who perhaps be far too busy worry about his social medium account . the Chair would want to hold he to account , and rightly so . goodness , many of we would think he might need legal representation for what could happen next . he would want his day in court . he might not want to be in the Chamber when we be talk about those very issue . he might be concern about the idea of a judge and jury exist in the same person . the very principle that lead to set up the European Court of Human Rights be one that we all feel every single day , because it do not just defend those basic thing like a right to family life or the right to privacy , it also defend a process by which those right be uphold . even if the Chair want to take somebody to task for not follow the rule in this place , they might at least be entitle to a fair hearing or a fair trial for what they have do . yet what the Bill do be remove that concept of a fair hearing from those people in our country who be often some of the most vulnerable : people flee torture and persecution . they want to uphold Government Ministers as judge and jury , and it do not even align with their own datum on how many people they be grant asylum to when their case be hear . nevertheless the point about the ECHR be the point that be understand by Churchill and , I believe , by many of we in the Chamber : we withdraw at our peril the opportunity for that freedom to be hear , that freedom for a fair trial and for somebody else to hear your case against an overbearing state . article 13 of the European Court of Human Rights convention set out the right to an effective remedy . it dare to impose on state party , on country that sign up to the court , that " everyone whose right and freedom as set forth in this Convention be violate shall have an effective remedy before a national authority notwithstanding " — that word again — " that the violation have be commit by person act in an official capacity . " in lay person ' s term , when you think the Government have do you wrong , who do you turn to , to protect you ? rightly , you might want to turn to our court , but if the Government be set the law it make sense to many of we who value freedom and liberty that there be a third party that you can adhere to . frankly , it be a sign that I be get old that I look at the conservative party now and I wonder where those libertarian be , those people who recognise , rightly , the concern that a government might be overbearing and repressive . [ interruption . ] freedom - love indeed , but not enough for their own freedom it seem from how this Bill start the inevitable process of remove that right to a remedy . we all know that right - wing government might start with refugee , but they never end with their right when it come to remove they . the Bill ' s removal of the right to an article 13 remedy would not just have consequence for refugee . many of we have debate the concept that each person should be able to have their day in court — a concept that lie person across the world understand , for it be write not just into the European Court of Human Rights and our Human Rights Act but the United States ' convention . it be not some terrible communist , socialist , marxist idea that people might have a remedy and the idea of due process . it be part of be a state that play by the rule and treat people fairly . if we start to unpick that in this legislation , it have consequence not just for our immigration system but far beyond the remit that anybody have think about . for so long it have be a byword for british liberty and freedom that we have be prepare to stand up for the rule of law , play by the rule , and , yes , be part of make they through be part of the Council of Europe . I declare an interest as somebody who take part in one of those election to vote for one of those " terrible " pyjama - wear judge who then have to uphold the legislation that we have help to create . where do it have an impact ? the hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) talk about the Good Friday agreement and the right hon . and learn Member for South Swindon recognise that too . let we sound the alarm here . if the Government will not deal with it now , it must be deal with in the other place . peace be precious and the peace in Northern Ireland be build on the bedrock of the Good Friday agreement , and the Good Friday agreement be build on the bedrock of the European Court of Human Rights . it be bake into the Northern Ireland peace process . the Good Friday agreement place a direct duty on the UK Government and all of we in this place to incorporate the European Court of Human Rights and its work into northern irish law , so that people in Northern Ireland could challenge an injustice in the court if their right be breach . that be not my interpretation . the Good Friday agreement explicitly state " full incorporation in Northern Ireland law of the ECHR " and state explicitly that the party — we and the Irish Government — " affirm their commitment to the mutual respect , the civil right and the religious liberty of everyone in the community " . when we start remove those right , which be what the Bill do by deny the right of a refugee to go to court under article 13 , we start undermine the Good Friday agreement because it do affect people in Northern Ireland . it be a principle establish in UK law through section 7a of the withdrawal agreement . the Government acknowledge that when we debate it on 12 December . the Home Secretary himself acknowledge that the Bill make " differential treatment in different part of the United Kingdom " and that somehow " the Bill will address the practical implication . " — [ Official Report , 12 December 2023 ; Vol . 742 , c . 749 . ] but we have not see any practical addressing of the implication and the potential consequence for our commitment to uphold the Good Friday agreement , an agreement that I think we would all concur , 25 year on , still matter and therefore be worth fight for . it matter because refugee be people too . I do not know why we have to state that in this place , but it seem increasingly that we must . the hon . member for Belfast East be right to talk about the Angesom ruling , but the ruling show that the Government recognise that just a few month ago . the Government say , in the Court , that it apply to refugee . section 108 explain explicitly that the applicant and respondent both agree that the right and safeguard in equality underpin by the Good Friday agreement be not exclude from asylum seeker , and that the concept of who everyone in that community be — write into the Good Friday agreement — include those outside the background of communal conflict . we could be in a position where there be a fry pan and a fire . if the Government proceed with this measure we will undermine the Good Friday agreement , but if they exempt Northern Ireland so that those right be uphold they will create a loophole in the Bill , as I be sure member on the other side of the Benches opposite — I be not sure which part of the mafia contingent that refer to these day — will recognise . it reflect the further chaos and confusion that the Government ' s Rwanda legislation cause . I table amendment 9 to address this issue head - on . it ask the Government to do something very simple : to set out how the Bill uphold the Good Friday agreement . surely that be not a controversial question to ask , but it seem very controversial for we to be give an answer . mess around with article 13 unpick not just the Good Friday agreement but part of our trade and co - operation agreement : when deal with international treaty , evidence that we play by the rule and be therefore good to do business with be part of the reason other country want to work with we , and that matter post - Brexit , because our reputation be everything . time and again , the Government have seek to undermine it by suggest that somehow the rule should not apply to we , and that therefore people should not expect the United Kingdom to stand up for those value , abide by they and uphold they . article 524 of the trade and co - operation agreement state : " the cooperation provide for in this Part be base on the Parties ' and Member States ' longstanding respect for democracy ; the rule of law and the protection of fundamental right and freedom of individual , include as set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and in the European Convention on Human Rights , and on the importance of give effect to the right and freedom in that Convention domestically . " " give effect " be the crucial phrase . it make simple sense to I , as a lay person . there be no point in have right if you can not actually use they — if there be no Court , and no possibility of be able to seek a remedy — but that be exactly what the Bill start to unpick . it be not a surprise to I , therefore , that Nathalie Loiseau , the chair of the committee in the European Parliament that be charge with oversee the trade and co - operation agreement , recognise this legislation , unamended , for what it be , namely a direct threat to that . the worry that many of we have be not about Brussels tell the UK what to do ; it be about the fact that we be head into the month and year before the TCA be to be renegotiate . next time a constituent come to a Member with all the paperwork that the Tory hard Brexit have create and the TCA underpin and ask , " what be you go to do to deal with it ? " , or ask about the border tax that will be introduce at the end of January and all the paperwork they be go to have to pay for at the end of April , that Member should bear in mind that the opportunity to reduce and remove all that , and to bring back the trade that we desperately need , will depend on those negotiation . walk into they with the message " you can not trust a word that we say as a country , because we might say that we will follow the echr , but if we think it do not suit we we will not , and what be you go to do about it ? " be not the way to get a good deal for british business . there be consequence from the way in which this legislation have be draft that we have not even begin to unpick in the House , but today be our last day to do anything about it . we must not look like a country that other do not want to do business with or that be hypocritical , but that be exactly what we be . to those of we who have fight for and defend the right of people with whom we disagree , that hypocrisy stink strongly from the Home Office . the Home Office that want to use the European Court of Human Rights to deny the implementation of the buffer zone for which this Parliament vote on the basis that there would be an article 9 contention under the ECHR be the same Home Office that be seek to rip up the right of refugee to use the echr when it feel like it . what be sauce for the goose be sauce for the gander . in layman ' s term , everyone can see what be go on here : pick and choose to suit your own end , and the consequence for people be damn . the Bill be contrary to the rule of law because it amount to a legislative usurpation of the judicial function . it be an assault on our constitution . it be not stand up for liberty and freedom ; it be deny those by remove those basic right , and the Government be do that in their own legal assessment . I raise this point early with a Conservative Member . again , I be not legally qualified , but I think that the assessment read like something out of " Alice in Wonderland " . it state : " article 13 echr be engage but will not be infringe " . that sound a bit like " present but not involve " as a way of think about legislation . it seem to be say that because we can say that Rwanda be safe and will always be safe , no concern can ever be raise about safety . that be a tautology . it do not make any sense , not least give the evidence that there be safety concern about Rwanda , and the possibility that thing might change in future even if we do not accept the evidence of extrajudicial killing , death in custody , enforce disappearance , torture , and the persecution of those in the LGBTQ + community . the assessment then begin to sound a bit more like the mad March hare : " the Government consider that a Declaration of Incompatibility be sufficient to provide an article 13 effective remedy for challenge to decision under the presumption of safety in clause 2 to treat Rwanda as safe " . to those of we who be not legally qualified , that seem to be say that something be incompatible to make it compatible . basically , it be say that someone can bring a court case — so the Bill be a lawyer ’ charter . the Government keep tell we that they do not like lawyer , but they seem to want to encourage they to make a lot of money out of badly draw piece of legislation that will encourage court case . that be exactly what the Government ' s own legal ruling do . this House can and should do well . amendment 9 be about resolve these challenge , and show that we have think about they . if nothing else , it would give succour to the Court that we have — as we do with prisoner voting — consider the matter , which be often what the Court be ask we to do : not to leave people ' s right lock away and inaccessible , but to look at how they be be use . Churchill say at the Hague : " we welcome any country where the people own the Government , and not the Government the people . " I think that be a very noble proposition . I be sorry that conservative Members be increasingly advocate our removal from the European Court of Human Rights because they can not live up to those terrible ideal of a protection of the right to family life or a protection of privacy or , goodness know , a protection of freedom of thought . will the hon . Lady give way ? oh , go on , then . the hon . Lady be constantly and sarcastically evoke Winston Churchill . obviously he do sign up to the ECHR and he send lawyer to deal with the drafting process , but will the hon . Lady acknowledge that he do not initially think that the United Kingdom would join it ; and when he do sign we up to it , there be no right of individual claim to the European Court ? it be properly on the plane of international law — between state , which be the appropriate place for this sort of law . nor would Churchill accept , surely — and nor should any of we — what the ECHR have become under the jurisdiction of the Strasbourg Court and , I be afraid , our own lawyer . all the article that the hon . Lady have mention , include the right to human life , have be so extended and expand by the court ever since that it have become entirely inappropriate for we to belong to the Court in this way . I really do not think that Winston Churchill would have support what Strasbourg have become , and neither , surely , do the hon . Lady . I be sorry that the hon . Gentleman be not here early to be part of the conversation . I be sure that he would want his own right of remedy to explain why he could not be bother to be here at the start . he would have hear the debate that we have about the original intention of the Court . let I quote back to he the original document , which state : " the high Contracting Parties undertake to abide by the final judgment of the Court in any case to which they be party . " from the start , Churchill himself advocate for the Court as a backstop against overbear government that could speak for people and prosecute people in way that be be talk about after the second world war without any challenge . I do not quote Churchill sarcastically . I recognise what he see at the time : the danger of authoritarianism . the hon . Gentleman would do well to reflect on that and perhaps reread some of those argument — as well as the rule about take part in a parliamentary debate . when Churchill talk about welcome any country in which the people own the Government , he be talk about democracy , and our court be an integral part of our democracy because they keep government honest , even if they be strain with this current Administration . just two country have leave the European Court of Human Rights . I be there when we expel Russia because of its aggression and when we try to prevent it from come back . Greece leave in 1967 when it be under a military regime and rejoin once democracy be restore . we should be proud and confident in our capacity to speak up for human right and to recognise that a right to an effective remedy be an integral part of that . there be no point have a right if we can not exercise it , and that mean have a separate body to oversee the process and ensure that it be fair to all party . more pragmatically , we should be worried about mess up our trade deal and undermine peace in Northern Ireland , as this Bill do . I say to the hon . member for Devizes ( Danny Kruger ) that it be not wake to be libertarian , to not trust government or to think that we need to protect ourselves . it be wack to think that because your Government be in charge , it be okay because they will not abuse their power . all government try to do that at some point , and it be right that all government face a process of challenge . this legislation will not stop the boat . what the Government really want to do be stop the vote , but they can not do that . there will be an election , but not before we have do potentially irreparable damage . the Irish Government have yet to say what they think about this Bill , but the UK Government be clear in the ruling in October that they feel that refugee be cover by the Good Friday agreement . so in table this legislation , this Government be undermine their own logic about their obligation under the Good Friday agreement . even if conservative member do not care about the trade and co - operation agreement , let we at least care about the peace process . let we ensure that these issue about compatibility be not something out of " Alice in Wonderland " but speak to the good of this place and to those obligation , because I promise that we will all regret it if we do not speak up for freedom and liberty in this way . I rise to speak in support of amendment 11 , table by my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , which command the support of 60 of my colleague . I note the comment make by the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) , and I would like to respond to some of they in the course of my speech . we be here to fix a problem . it be the problem that we be all seize by , which be stop the boat . this be our third attempt to fix this problem . we pass the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 , we pass the Illegal Migration Act 2023 and we be here again in 2024 , the third time round , with the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill . the british people be feed up . they have run out of patience and they have run out of time , and this be our last chance to get it right . amendment 11 seek to remedy a fatal flaw in the Bill , which be that , as currently draft , it will lead we directly to a rerun of the scenario that we see on 14 June 2022 , when the Home Office and the then Administration have identify a cohort of illegal migrant and fill a plane ready to take off to Rwanda , but at the 11th hour , pursuant to an opaque process , a decision be make by a still unidentified judge in a foreign court that have the effect of block the flight — [ interruption . ] do the hon . member for Glasgow North ( Patrick Grady ) have something to say ? I be not sure why we have to be frightened of foreign court . what exactly be wrong with a foreign court ? I will tell the hon . Gentleman where we have a problem with a foreign court . in that scenario , when english court have refuse injunction by the migrant to get off the flight , the foreign court overrode English judge , overrode the will of the Government and overrode the will of the british people to control our border and stop the boat . that be the problem with a foreign court , and that be the problem that we be try to fix . when that flight be ground in June 2022 , it be because of rule 39 interim injunction . those order be not contain in the european convention on human right , and they be not a product or a content of the original convention . they be a creation of the Strasbourg court and the Strasbourg judge , and they have evolve over time pursuant to the live instrument doctrine that be espouse by the Strasbourg court and that have inflate and expand its remit over decade , beyond anything conceive by the original drafter or any intention set out in the original version of the european convention . I believe that no one here disagree with the aspiration and the content of the european convention on human right . I do not disagree with anything set out in that document , which contain noble , vital and fundamental human right that we be all proud to defend fervently and fiercely : against oppressive regime ; against authoritarianism ; against genocide ; against mass killing ; and against some of the bad atrocity history have see . that be the context of the european convention ' s genesis . to respond to the hon . member for Walthamstow , the problem we be deal with be the Court . it be the Court that have become politicised . it be the Court that have become interventionist . it be the Court that do not follow the traditional common - law rule of precedent to which the english court subscribe . the Strasbourg Court and its judge have distort the original european convention on human right into something that bear no reflection to its original intention . that have be exacerbate by Labour ' s Human Rights Act . in recent decade we have see a right culture and litigiousness around immigration , asylum and many other area . public sector decision making have be stymie , thwart and undermine by a heavily resource , activist legal industry that be undermine Government decision making , stymie policy making and undermine law enforcement and public safety . I have a few example . take the case of OO , a nigerian national who be sentence in 2016 to four year in prison for offence include possession of crack cocaine and heroin with intent to supply . he plead guilty to battery and assault in 2017 . those be serious offence . in 2020 , the first - tier tribunal allow his appeal against deportation on the ground that he have very significant obstacle to integration in Nigeria that outweigh the public interest in his deportation . despite the seriousness of his offending , and despite the risk he pose to the public , his article 8 right , interpret in a vastly elastic way — a distorted , illogical way — operate to stop he be deport . article 3 be invoke in the case of d v . UK . we can all agree with article 3 , which prohibit torture and inhumane or degrading treatment but , in this case of a non - UK national who be convict of deal drug , the Strasbourg court hold that the effect of discontinue his medical treatment , available in the UK but not in his destination country , amount to inhumane or degrading treatment under article 3 . why should a convict drug dealer be entitle to public service here and not be deport ? surely on that basis almost any deportation could be block , for few country in the world can match the standard of our NHS , and once that precedent have be set every person will claim that they require treatment for the most minor of ailment . I be afraid that my right hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight that point . article 3 , and a stretch interpretation of it originate in the jurisprudence of the Strasbourg Court , by politicised judge pursue a political agenda , have lead to a perception that here in the UK we have an international health service , not a national health service . lastly , let we consider the case of am ( Zimbabwe ) in 2022 , thank to which it have now become law that state that want to remove someone have to prove that medical facility available to the deportee in their home country would remove any real risk that their lifespan would be shorten by their removal from NHS facility . that be exactly the point that my right hon . friend have make : the UK Government now have a duty to establish that foreign health service be sufficient before we deport people who may well pose a risk to public safety and , in some case , national security in this country . those be the overall problem with the Court — not the convention , but the Court . rule 39 be another symptom of the problem that we have with the Court and the judge , which be why the amendment be vital . it will make it clear that rule 39 order be not bind and that it will be for the UK Government to make the decision on deportation , not a foreign court — an unidentified judge somewhere far away who do not have the same ambition or aspiration as this UK Government to stop the boat . that be why I will support the amendment enthusiastically today . let I conclude by say that this be our last chance to fix this problem . we have stretch the patience of the british people . this come down to a simple but profound question : who govern Britain ? be it we , the democratically elect representative who have be directly send here on behalf of the british people , on a clear mandate and with a clear instruction of what to do , and whose law be pass by a clear and transparent majority , to which we can all be hold to account at the ballot box ? or be it an opaque forum many mile away , in a different country , that be distant , outsourced , foreign and do not share our value — rise — I will not give way . be it a forum that do not share our value , that have make decision time and time again that be odd with what the british people have indicate they want and that have operate to undermine our public safety , national security and good governance ? it be the operation of the Strasbourg Court — we can call it the Strasbourg Court or a foreign court , and we can argue about semantic — the European Court of Human Rights , that we be concern with here . that Court be currently control this country ' s ability to stop the boat . that Court and its jurisprudence be prevent this government from deliver for the british people . we make a vow to the british people that we would stop the boat . that be a solemn vow that I take incredibly seriously . it be what people vote for in 2016 in the Brexit referendum by a majority . I know that most Opposition member do not want to believe in the majority , still live in denial and do not want to accept the fact . it be what people vote for by a huge majority in 2019 : to control our border and to stop the boat . we make a promise . I know the right hon . and learn Lady feel this passionately , but will she clarify her concern about a " foreign court " ? what do she think NATO be ? NATO be not a court . I be slightly embarrassed that I have to make that clear to the hon . Lady , as that be really elementary politic . we be be govern by a foreign court and judge who do not have our interest at heart . the decision come from that court be stop we control our border . the amendment will prevent that foreign court from stop we , so we need to support the amendment because it will fix the Bill . the Bill need to work . it be our last chance . if we get it wrong , the british people will not forgive we , and they will be right not to do so . order . I now have to announce the result of today ' s defer Divisions . on the draft Immigration Act 2014 ( Residential Accommodation ) ( Maximum Penalty ) Order 2023 , the Ayes be 331 and the Noes be 51 , so the Ayes have it . on the draft Immigration ( Employment of Adults subject to Immigration Control ) ( Maximum Penalty ) ( amendment ) Order 2023 , the Ayes be 331 and the Noes be 51 , so the Ayes have it . [ the Division list be publish at the end of today ' s debate . ] what a privilege it be to follow the former Home Secretary . the debate have really light up . there be comparison early between the debate and the next episode in a box set , but I think we have just see the first act of the next conservative leadership contest — no doubt the sketch writer and everyone else pay attention have suddenly wake up . she make some incredibly interesting comment . she speak about vow that be make to british people after referendum and election ; I remember a vow be make in 2014 about how the Scottish Parliament be go to become the great , most powerful leader of all Parliaments in the entire world , and look how that turn out . the former Home Secretary be right that the Government will be hold to account and that Parliament will exercise its opportunity to have a say on these issue ; that be why the amendment propose by she and her hon . friend be vote down last night and , I be confident , will be vote down again this evening . come the election , a majority of Members of Parliament , include a majority of mps in Scotland who represent the Scottish National party , will be return to the House and will vote to repeal the Bill , assume the Bill ever make it on to the statute book in the first place . what be play out be a debate not specifically about this legislation but about the future of the conservative party , and some of its past as well . in some way , it have be a real privilege to debate against the Maastricht rebel of old and to have the opportunity to debate people who be on the television when I be study for my modern study standard grade 30 year ago . they still can not get that determination to rebel against the Government out of their system . it do not really matter what the Government be propose — the hon . member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) , the right hon . member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) and for Wokingham ( John Redwood ) and the rest will be against it because they love that sweet taste of rebellion . but the rest of we have well thing to do with our time , and we need to get on and demonstrate what our constituent think about the Bill . we hear at great length yesterday from the hon . member for Stone about the wonderful concept of parliamentary sovereignty , even though we be debate the clause that explicitly recognise parliamentary sovereignty today . my amendment 31 would remove a subsection in that clause because the assertion of parliamentary sovereignty in such a Bill be an innovation . I would be interested to hear the Minister ' s response to that point , because the idea of include in a Bill that language about Parliament be sovereign be an innovation . with the help of the House of Commons Library , the only other instance I have be able to find be in the European Union ( Withdrawal Agreement ) Act 2020 . there be other example of legislation that imply parliamentary sovereignty and that imply the ability of this House to override court and make its own decision . some of that be in the found legislation that take we into the European Union in the first place , and also in the act that establish the devolution settlement . but the line assert that Parliament be sovereign be something of a legislative innovation . give how lyrical the hon . member for Stone wax yesterday about the wonder of an unwritten constitution , it strike I that this be a form of codify the concept of parliamentary sovereignty — write down aspect of the UK constitution . this seem to be a random piece of migration legislation , which may or may not ever actually make it on to the statute book . none the less , it seem a very interesting way to go about codify the UK constitution . the other reason for my amendment be the one cite by both the hon . member for Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath ( Neale Hanvey ) yesterday , when he introduce his ten - minute rule Bill , and by my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Joanna Cherry ) early , when she raise the constitutional tradition express by Lord Cooper in the case of MacCormick v . the Lord Advocate in 1953 : " the principle of the unlimited sovereignty of Parliament be a distinctively english principle , which have no counterpart in scottish constitutional law " . my hon . and learn Friend speak with far great experience than I can about the significance of that ruling and , indeed , about the wide significance of Scotland ' s historically independent legal system to this debate and to this legislation . that perhaps explain my amendment 4 and 5 , which would remove Scotland from the Extent clause because , despite what the right hon . and learn Member for Fareham ( Suella Braverman ) seem to think about the opinion of the british public , voter in Glasgow North want no part of this . I know that because I speak to they on a very regular basis . a significant number of they be asylum seeker , who regularly come to my surgery . I hear the horror story not just of what they have experience in their country of origin , but of their experience of try to deal with the Home Office . frankly , if more asylum seeker know that that be what they would be on the receive end of , perhaps it would have the kind of deterrent effect that the Home Office be so desperately try to achieve . in reality , Scotland have always be a country that welcome refugee , asylum seeker and those who want to make their home there and contribute something to our society — just as so many country around the world do for the scot when they be clear off the land to make way for sheep , or when their crop fall victim to blight or , in the modern world , when people want to study around the world or practise their profession overseas . that be why I also support the amendment from my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Edinburgh South West that say the Scottish Parliament should be ask to give its consent to the Bill before it take effect north of the border . in reality , the Scottish Parliament will not give its consent , because it be not what the people in Scotland want to see , or how they think a humane system of asylum should work . the Bill talk about the safety of Rwanda . I ask the Prime Minister about that today . I also put the same question to the Minister who respond to yesterday ' s debate . I say that if Rwanda be a safe country and a comfortable place in which people can live out their life have be grant asylum , why would the potential of be deport there be a deterrent ? it do not seem to make an awful lot of sense to I . both the Prime Minister and the Minister say , " well , because Rwanda be not the UK , " so not be the UK be itself a deterrent . by the same logic , if the Government come to an agreement with Disneyland and threaten to deport asylum seeker to Disneyland if they arrive here by irregular mean , that too would be a deterrent , because it be not the United Kingdom . sadly , there be not yet a Disneyland in the United Kingdom , although I suspect that , sometimes , people look at this place and wonder exactly where the fantasy in all this be . by the Government ' s own logic , then , the Bill fail under the weight of its contradiction . that be the point of the definition of the safety of Rwanda in clause 1 . the Bill fail under the weight of its own contradiction , and we see that in the contradictory amendment propose by the two , five or however many oppose faction there be in the conservative party . the former Home Secretary , the right hon . and learn Member for Fareham , be right that the public will have their say on the Bill . after the next election , I be confident that Members from the Scottish National party will be prepare to support any legislation that the Government who be return introduce to repeal the Bill — assume , as I say , that it make it on to the statute book in the first place . I will now announce the result of the ballot hold today for the election of the Chair of the Defence Committee . there be 476 vote cast , four of which be invalid . Sir Jeremy Quin be elect Chair with 371 vote . he will take up his post immediately , and I congratulate he on his election . the result of the count under the alternative vote system will be make available as soon as possible in the Vote Office and publish on the internet . I will be slightly unfashionable and talk to the amendment , rather than regurgitate some of the Second Reading speech we have have . I do so with some trepidation because sit to my right be a trio — a former Lord Chancellor , a former Attorney General and the Justice Committee Chair — who speak with much great legal gravita , and much more expensively . perhaps the only upside be that my advice and my talk to the amendment come for free . in contribute to the debate , I be largely speak to the Government side of the Committee . in all the speech we have yesterday , when the opposition could not fill the full allotted time for the debate , have complain about the lack of scrutiny — and I guess they may not be able to fill the full time give to they today — we hear speech after speech emulate their front - Bench team that tell we what they do not like , what they be not support and what they be not vote for . at absolutely no point do they come up with a practical solution for the very real everyday problem we aim to deal with here . although we have disagreement on our side as to the method , what we want to achieve be in common . that goal be something that need to be tackle , and we be have an honest debate about it . the official opposition be play absolutely no part in that debate . my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , who have leave his place , start the debate by talk to amendment 23 in particular . he describe the problem as like pull the pin out of a grenade but then not throw it . I do not think that be helpful language , and he then quit the Chamber have throw the grenade behind his own line . we need cool , calm consensus to come up with practical , workable , acceptable and legal solution . the Rwanda scheme be not perfect — all of we will agree with that — but frankly it be the only real show in town at the moment to answer this essential question that I raise last week in the Opposition debate , which , again , they struggle to fill with their own speaker . that question be : how do we deal with the people who have come to this country , mostly by small boat , have pay criminal gang , with no credible prospect of be able to lodge an acceptable asylum claim , but who come from country to which it be virtually , if not completely , impossible to return they , so they know that once they have make it across the midway of the channel and be in british territorial water , they be effectively in the United Kingdom for the foreseeable future ? that be absolutely the question at the heart of this Bill and the debate today and yesterday . I have hear the hon . Gentleman make that point before about people who come and can not be send back to whatever country because of the situation there . that have occur within my own casework , and at the moment it appear that the Home Office grant people temporary leave for perhaps a year at a time , which give no certainty to the person affect but do I suppose give the Home Office discretion to reconsider , rather than give they permanent status . that already happen , so I would say it be not something he should really be so concerned about . I know it happen already . that be what I have be say , and the hon . Lady at least credit I with be consistent . we have three problem with the immigration system in this country . the first problem be how we can prevent people from leave those , mostly french , beach in the first place to make that most inappropriate and most dangerous journey — we can have a different argument about the safe and legal route , which she know I support , and whether that would reduce the number try to do it , or whether we could come to some accord with the French so that they would intercept those boat and return the passenger to french water . the second problem be that we need to speed up the whole processing — as the Government have , to give they credit — of those people who be in limbo , those who come before the Illegal Migration Act 2023 who be still able to have their asylum application in this country . we need to get through that backlog as swiftly as possible . we then have a problem with those in limbo post the Illegal Migration Act , who have effectively commit a crime under the term of that Act . the third problem in solve the migration process be then remove those people who have not be able to make a credible claim to stay in the United Kingdom . that be why the alternative , of their face a lottery on whether they will end up in a hotel in Kent or a plane to Rwanda and have their claim instead assess there , be an important part of the deterrent factor . it be one part , not an overriding part , as some people have try to caricature it , but an important part of deal specifically with that group of people whom it be really difficult to remove . in time , we need more return agreement , and we have successfully do that with a number of country — Albania have be cite many time . however , there be country , of which Iran will be one , with which a return agreement be frankly impossible and we should not delude ourselves otherwise . it be wrong to suggest that we can solve this problem just by have a further agreement with the French and pay they more money . we have pay the french gendarmerie and police force £ 480 million already , yet the proportion of successful intercept have fall in the past 12 month . we already have joint operation with they . we already have a unit within the National Crime Agency deal with this issue . the Opposition claim that this problem can be solve by get well at crack down on the people smuggler and co - operate with the French , but all that be happen already . we need to speed up the application , as I have just say , but that still do not deal with the problem of what we do with people who we can not then return . that be why I agree with the spirit of what my right hon . friend the Member for Newark and other hon . friend be try to do with amendment 23 , but I do not agree with the method , and that be why I will oppose the amendment . let we just remind ourselves that the reason this Bill have become necessary be in response to the Supreme Court judgment that find the Rwanda scheme to have various specific shortcoming : the refoulement threat and the fact it be a one - way street , which have now be resolve . that be why a number of measure have be bring in with the Rwanda treaty and within this Bill . this Bill be about allay fear about not fulfil our obligation under international law and the implication that may have for the Northern Ireland agreement , as have already be mention , and for negotiate trade treaty and other international agreement in the future . however , the Rwanda agreement as it currently stand , before the reform to it , fall foul of our own court . it be not just the ECHR or the refugee convention ; it be our own court that rule against the Government . the Rwanda scheme need to be see to be lawful , not just by Rwanda , but potentially both by other country who have signify an interest in operate a Rwanda - type scheme as host , and by other european country who be interested in get part of the action if we be able to get the Rwanda scheme into operation . ultimately , my aim be to see a co - operation of european and other nation in a joint Rwanda - type scheme — although not one limit just to Rwanda . that could act as an effective deterrent so that far few people come across the channel and we can clamp down on those who still use that route , because they have little credible claim to have asylum in this country . for that , we need safe and legal route operate properly as well , as I have say many time before . there be a problem specifically with rule 39 indication , or " pyjama injunction . " I be not a lawyer , but on the basis of the threshold for which other thing can go to court , that be a very opaque process . we have hear about the anonymous judge . they do not issue a full judgment , and the Government can not make a case at all . where else be there a legal system whereby the person who be effectively be prosecute can not make their own case in front of a judge ? nor be there any appeal facility in this whole operation . those rule 39 indication be never part of the european convention . that be never include in the constitution . there be attempt to include it in the constitution , but they be never support . those power , as my hon . friend have say , just seem to have be absorb into the Strasbourg Court by its own fiat . to whom be that Court accountable ? why be the European Council not do more governance of how those power have be surreptitiously extend ? last year , the Strasbourg Court itself admit that it need to change its way and that the operation of rule 39 indication be not satisfactory . it say that , in future , they would be use only in extremis — although we do not know how it define that — they would be operate by name judge ; the Government , in this case , would have an opportunity to present their evidence and be listen to ; and judgment would be more transparent . so , the Court itself know that there be a problem with the rule 39 indication . we be not the only country that be concerned about the way that the indication have be operate . too often it seem , we be pillory as if the United Kingdom Government be serial offender against ECHR judgment and european convention diktat , but other country seem routinely to get around rule 39 indication , and we have one of the good record in comply with ECHR judgment . over the past 10 year or so , no few than 400 echr ruling have not be enforce or comply with , include 61 % of those against Spain , 58 % of those against Italy and 37 % of those against Germany . the United Kingdom be one of the good complier with ECHR judgment . the sort of thing that we have not comply with include vote for prisoner , about which we have hear . we have a vote about that in this House — largely to indulge the Liberal Democrats as part of the coalition Government , I seem to recall — and forcefully and robustly vote against it , decide not to go forward with it . I think that that be absolutely the right judgment , and it stay in limbo . we need to reform the echr . in the past year , there have be only four judgment against the UK on convention matter . yet again , the UK have fall foul of abide by rule that too many other ignore , so I support the case for not be bind by rule 39 ruling . as I say , we need urgently to work with our partner , through the Council of Europe and other , to reform those ruling . it be a very opaque governance system . I do not believe , though , that not be bind by these confected rule 39 direction undermine our overall compliance with international law , or with international responsibility and undertaking . however , the Bill already say that in a reasonable and balanced way , the Minister have discretion to make the decision not to comply with those rule 39 indication , so we have give the Minister and the Government the power to say , " actually , we do not think that be right , and therefore for good reason , we be not go to allow that rule 39 indication to apply to this case . " that be a sensible way of proceed . it be not a mainstream , routine , blanket disregard , which could fall foul of our own court and have international implication for the integrity of british legislation and governance . as such , I support the spirit of what hon . member be try to achieve with amendment 23 , but I do not support the method . we all know that get this Rwanda legislation through Parliament be a very difficult , complex and sensitive issue . we have to strike a very fine balance between not trample on international law and enable our government to get on with the measure that they be elect to implement , and I think the Government have get the balance right in this Bill , which be not an easy task . that be why I want the Bill to go through unamended — we all have something to gain from that happening . I will certainly be vote for the full Bill on Third Reading , if that happen this evening , but my hon . friend need to stop and consider before they pull the pin out of another grenade . if this Bill do not go through , there be no plan b for deal with those people who we can not transport back to the country from which they come . there will be no Rwanda Bill , no Rwanda scheme , no deterrent policy , and no obvious end to the small boat . I hope that my right hon . friend the Member for Newark — who make a very strong case , but , I think , with the wrong ultimate conclusion on the method — will consider the implication of pursue that conclusion all the way to vote in the wrong Lobby on Third Reading . I hope he will withdraw his amendment and let the Government get on with the job of see whether we can get this Rwanda scheme to work , get the plane off the ground , offer a real deterrent , and get this problem sort out once and for all . it be a pleasure to serve under your guidance this afternoon , Sir Roger , and to take part in a debate that have be broadly thoughtful , despite very clear difference of opinion . it be also a pleasure to have sit through and enjoy the speech of the right hon . and learn Member for Fareham ( Suella Braverman ) , who be the very definition of an activist lawyer , so we be grateful to have she with we . I speak in solidarity with the minority of other member in the Chamber today who be not legally train — who be not lawyer . it be right that our voice be hear as well . I rise in particular to speak in favour of amendment 6 and 7 , which stand in the name of my right hon . friend the Member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) — who be indeed a lawyer . first , I want to say something that ought not to be even remotely controversial : the evil trade of ship people across the english channel in rickety boat need to be stop , and those people who be carry across the channel via those mean be take huge risk . we have see significant loss of life over the year , include in recent time . however , the two amendment I be speak to seek to challenge the fundamental of the Bill . I believe this Bill will not do what it say : it will not stop the boat . it will not tackle the issue of deterrence and so on , and even if it do , the Rwanda provision would tackle only roughly 1 % of the number of people who seek asylum in this country . as well as lead to poor policy , there be a number of error at the heart of the Bill , because it be base on a series of false premise . there be three basic false premise . the first be the belief that , while this be a global problem and a european problem , the UK ' s position be especially awful . I have hear incendiary language in this place and outside it relate to our be overrun or swamp , with people swarm across the channel , and that kind of thing . the reality be that 85 % of those who declare themselves to be refugee remain in the region to which they have flee , normally the next country , so a very small minority end up in this continent . Germany take four time more asylum seeker than the UK , France two and a half time more and Spain two time more . perish the thought , but if we be to place Britain back into the European Union just for a second for a league table snapshot , we would see that the UK be 20th in the league table of country among the other 27 in the number of asylum seeker we take per capita . the idea that the UK be overwhelm by this particular problem be not true , and it do not take account of the reality across the continent and across the world . it be also worth bear in mind that the voter base issue the Government be really deal with , or think they be deal with , be excessive immigration in general , yet only 7 % of the migrant in this country be asylum seeker . the real issue , and where there be an issue of our be overwhelm , be that the last time I check , 165 , 411 asylum seeker be wait in the backlog . on past experience , 75 % of those people will be count as refugee and give approval by this government , so we know that the people come here be broadly genuine refugee , and a different 75 % — or a not entirely coterminous 75 % — of they be wait more than six month . when member get letter in their postbag and email from people outraged about this issue , it be usually less about the boat cross the channel than the fact that a local hotel be full of asylum seeker , not be use for its primary purpose , and there be a reason for that . those asylum seeker do not want to be in such a hotel ; instead , they want to have their case treat quickly . when I be in Barrow in the constituency of my neighbour the hon . member for Barrow and Furness ( Simon Fell ) a few month ago , I talk to asylum seeker who would rather be tell to leave the country and be give a negative decision than wait the year or more that they have wait so far . one guy tell I he have be an afghan interpreter for the British Army in Afghanistan , but we have leave he behind , and the only way he could find to get to this country be to come via an irregular route . these be the people we be talk about , and the reason we be in the situation we be in be the Government ' s failure to tackle the backlog . the first false premise this Bill be base on be that the UK ' s problem be somehow different and great than any of our neighbour ' or , indeed , somehow separate from the problem that affect the whole of planet Earth . the second false premise be that the only way to control migration — or 7 % of it , because asylum account for only 7 % of UK migration — be to duck international law and become a pariah . the right hon . and learn Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) point out , more eloquently and in more detail than I be go to , the importance of the United Kingdom be credible internationally . we listen to the Prime Minister early this week , and we be aware of what the UK Government be do and what the UK military be do alongside the US in the Red sea , and the justification for that , which I hear , understand and accept , be that this be about uphold the rule of law . if we want to walk on the world stage and be a leader — to be people with influence — then we need to be not among those who habitually break the rule of law and think these thing do not apply to they . I mention this question of global leadership in my speech yesterday for a very good reason . it be to do with reputation , but it be also to do with change . all over the European Union , face with compulsory quota and compulsory fine , country be in a real mess . there be the charter of fundamental right , and the EU can not make change without change in constitutional law and in country ’ constitution , and they may well have to have referenda . in this country , we be in a different position and can make change because , in our dualist system , we be entitle to require our court to obey the decision of Parliament about sovereignty where clear and unambiguous wording be use . there be the difference , and that be why we can lead the world . such negotiation be bind to be happen because my hon . friend at the other end of the Chamber have be say they believe there will be change in the european convention on human right and , for that matter , the refugee convention . of course it be a give that the law change , and law change via a variety of different mean , include how this place vote . nevertheless , the UK would be see to be choose — in order to tackle a problem in an ineffective way — to disapply the Human Rights Act 1998 and at least to an extent not to comply with international law . I hear all the disparage remark about lefty lawyer , activist , judge , foreign judge and so on , all of which demean this place and be not what people who be suppose to uphold the constitution ought to be say , particularly give that the majority of lawyer I have hear speak in this debate be on the conservative Benches ; if Conservative member want to describe themselves as lefty lawyer , that be their business , but it be not helpful . but when we have the Law Society say that the Bill might be incompatible with our international obligation and " set a dangerous legal and constitutional precedent by legislate to overturn an evidence - base finding of fact by the UK ' s high court " , we should take it seriously . there be no doubt whatever that for we to decide to pass a law to say that Rwanda be a safe country be an overreach of Parliament , because if we have evidence to say that Rwanda be safe , present it to the court — do it in the proper way . it be dangerously authoritarian to decide on a matter of fact of law rather than present it before the court . it be not only an overreach , however ; it be also ridiculous . if we be go to declare Rwanda safe just because we want it to be , I declare Blackburn Rovers back in the Premier League and Alan Shearer to be 30 year young and back in a no . 9 shirt play up front for we — there we be , make it so — but that be clearly not the case , sadly . if there be evidence , we should present it to the court . it be ridiculous for this place to say that somehow it can declare a place safe just because it be convenient for it to do so . we do not control migration by this kind of sophistry , but deterrence be still appropriate . People have ask what deterrence we be go to have : the deterrent be if we have a function asylum system where we actually return people whose application fail . on the point about declare a country safe , France , Germany and other EU country have decide they will not entertain any asylum application from Albania because it be a safe country that abide by the same convention . they have do it ; why can ' t we ? I think on balance we would say that Albania probably be safe , and the bulk of return we have have have indeed be to Albania . but I think it be wrong for we to get out of a hole on this individual case in this way where there be evidence that Rwanda be not a safe place ; the issue be that we should present evidence to the court in order to achieve that . the hon . Gentleman have just make a discretionary judgment on the safeness of Albania , have say that nobody can determine whether a country should be deem safe or not . there be many dangerous thing go on in Albania , which be why some people be leave , involve trafficking , drug and various other thing . all I be say be that european country will not entertain asylum application from Albania because they have deem it not to be suitable and applicable , so why can not we apply the same criterion to Rwanda ? I have never be an apologist for other european country : they make their own decision , but the clear issue be that this House have be ask to decide on a matter of law when that be a matter for the court . if there be evidence that Rwanda be safe , we present that evidence to the court . that be the proper way to go about it , and the hon . Gentleman know that . my opinion on whether a place be or be not safe be neither here nor there ; the issue be whether the court have consider the evidence in front of they . the evidence in front of the court be that Rwanda be not safe ; we do not deal with that by just declare it to be safe , which be unconstitutional and also ridiculous . we present the evidence , and if the Government have evidence they should present it to the court . I want to go back to the issue of deterrence , which I be lead into before the intervention . if we want to deter people who do not have a legitimate claim from come to the United Kingdom , we should be some use at remove those people who do not have a legitimate claim . the fact be that only a quarter of those people who be deny asylum once they have go through the process be remove , and that be the problem . we have a Government who be incompetent at do the basic , inefficient , and weak at tackle those people who eventually do get assess and be show not to be refugee . the problem be not activist judge , but weak and incompetent Government . I be not accuse everyone on the Government Benches as be populist , but one of the hallmark of a populist be that they look at a huge and difficult problem and they come up with a simplistic solution . the reality be that we need to be honest that this be a difficult problem that be not easy to solve . it be a global problem , and we have to work with other country to try to address it . for example , some of the issue around Yemen will no doubt have be exacerbate by this country choose to reduce its aid to Yemen . if we want to influence and stop the flow of people away from troubled part of the world , we should get alongside those place and try to deal with these thing at source . I would not make any pretence that that will solve the problem , but let we not pretend that try to attack one part of the symptom be an answer . it be dishonest to claim that this Bill be an overall answer to the problem . the third false premise be that the provision of this Bill will even remotely work . at well , on the Government ' s own figure , a maximum of 1 % of the asylum seeker come to this country will end up be remove to Rwanda , at the cost of £ 240 million and counting . we could just say , " why not put that money into a well Border Force ? why not put that money into clear the backlog ? why not put that money into do thing that actually would deter people from come ? " the Bill will not work , though , and it will not deter people , and let we just think why it will not deter people . many refugee who end up in this country , include by come over the channel , come from Eritrea in the first place . many would refer to it as the North Korea of Africa . Isaias Afwerki be an awful , appal dictator . among the thing he do that be a cause of people seek refuge from that country be conscript all young man at 18 . many of they , particularly from christian community , be then send to murder their own people . People ask , " why be so many of the people come young man ? " that be one of the reason . they seek asylum . where do they go next ? many will stay in the region . it be important to understand deterrence . let we say that some young man — maybe a couple of brother — have escape . it be hard to escape in the first place from Afwerki and his evil henchman , so they leave the country . they end up at some point go through the lawless horror that be Libya . it be utterly appalling , and a country without rule . the experience of what happen post - Gaddafi be a reminder that there be nothing so awful in this world that you can not make it bad , and Libya be even bad than it be then . they pass through that country with its human trafficking , a massive murder rate and the appalling human right experience , and they eventually make it to the Med . they cross the Mediterranean on to mainland Europe , and then at some point they be ask to make a decision about whether they will cross the 20 or 30 mile of the english channel . that be a piece of cake compare with the horror they have endure so far . do we genuinely think that the 1 % chance they might get send to Rwanda be a deterrent at all ? it be a reminder , be it not , that Rwanda be a huge distraction from the issue we face . this Bill assume a state of affair that be not true . it assume that the only way to deal with the situation be to act unconstitutionally , and in a very anti - conservative and un - Conservative way , I might add . it assume that the scheme will work when it blindingly obviously will not . amendment 6 and 7 in the name of my right hon . friend the Member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) be there to challenge the assumption that to control migration we need to exempt vulnerable people from domestic law that protect their human right . we do not need to try to duck out of our obligation under the ECHR by ignore interim injunction . these provision be morally wrong . they be constitutional vandalism and constitute a failure . this Bill be about seek to distract the electorate from the reality of people ' s daily life . we have a Government fail to govern or to tackle the cost of living and the NHS crisis . one in nine people in my constituency be currently on an NHS waiting list , and the Government be waste their time on something that be morally outrageous , unconstitutional and will not even do the thing it be set up to do . order . before I call Sir John Hayes , may I remind the House that this be not second reading debate ? it be certainly a debate about the clause stand part and the amendment , but it be not a second reading debate — there be a distinction . the debate on the Government side of the Chamber , as my hon . friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) say , be not on a difference in aim or end ; it be about the mean to those end . government member want to travel to the same destination ; what we be debate be the journey to get there . so let we not exaggerate the difference between we . I know that the Minister share that view . we have engage with he and hope to continue to do so , even at this late stage , to improve the Bill and realise the delivery of those intention — the journey to that end . we have to do so , because mass migration be perhaps the big existential crisis face this country . I do not say that blithely — unfortunately , people say thing in this Chamber as though they be definitive and use all kind of superlative ; indeed , the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) have make a brand out of that , as we hear early . that view would be share by a large number of my constituent and , as my hon . friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham also say , it be now widely share in other country . the Bill and the amendment to it therefore affect our constituent directly and personally , contrary to the contribution of the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) , who claim that it be a distraction . far from it ; we can not absorb into this country the number of people who be come as a consequence of both legal and illegal migration in a short period of time without a devastating effect on public service , a displacement effect on investment in the skill of our own people , a displacement effect on the need to reform welfare and , beyond all that , the ability to integrate those incoming people into cohesive society in which we all share a common sense of belong . in deal with the amendment , we need to be realistic about the scale of the problem and the british public ' s view of that problem . they know that the vast majority of people arrive here on small boat — about 75 % — be man under 40 . by the way , about nine out of 10 arrive be male , which be far from the picture paint by some of the critic of the Government and our policy . they know , too , that large number of those people be not genuine asylum seeker but economic migrant . that truth be so evident to the elector of this country that they look with bemusement at this place where it be not widely recognise . we hear speech after speech — from Opposition Members in particular , I must say — that seem to be either ignorant of those fact or unwilling to face they . rise — I do not know whether the hon . Lady be the first or the second , but I happily give way to she . perhaps the right hon . member would like to correct the record . Most people who come on small boat be in fact refugee , because the Home Office grant they that status . they be not economic migrant as they do not get economic migrant status ; they get refugee status . what we certainly know about they all be that before they get here they have travel through safe country — more than one in many case — and fail to claim asylum . the hon . Lady be right that we be probably too lax in how we process claim . certainly , we offer asylum to more applicant than France . on average , we grant a high proportion of asylum claim than most european country . we know , too , that the failure to remove those people cost the british taxpayer an immense amount of money . when I look at the figure , I be stagger . the cost of asylum be now £ 3 . 97 billion . it be extraordinary that a single matter should cost so much . the need for the Bill be justify alone on the basis that we can no long afford to deal with the current scale of illegal migration . we simply can not afford for it to continue , as the british sense of fair play have be test to its limit . the public see that , and they be increasingly disillusion by the apparent inability and unwillingness of the political elite in this country — we be the political elite , like it or not — to accept the fact . progress have be make in clear the backlog , largely as a result of the effort of my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) and my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Fareham ( Suella Braverman ) . during their stewardship of the Home Office , they focus resource on processing claim more quickly and have considerable success in do so . but the problem be that as fast as we process people , more arrive . until we deal with the root of the problem , we can never really tackle the cost I describe nor the disillusion feel by our constituent . that be why the Prime Minister pledge to stop the boat . in order to do so , we need an Act that be as effective as possible . the amendment in the name of my right hon . friend the Member for Newark , which I strongly support , would ensure just that . amendment 11 to 18 deal in particular with the Human Rights Act 1998 . take together , they would fully disapply the Act from the Bill and the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , particularly in relation to removal to Rwanda . a lot of nonsense be speak early about right ; indeed , a lot of nonsense prevail in this House about right . right be fundamentally important . we believe in the essential right that characterise our country : the right to a fair trial ; the right to go about one ' s business freely and unimpaire ; the right not to be arrest without cause ; the right to vote in free and fair election . those be important part of what it be to be british , but they do not spring from the ether . they be not a give — it be a liberal myth that right be natural . right be the product of decent government in decent place do the right thing . they be special because we have choose they , not because they be give to we by some ethereal source . the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) , whom I like and respect , will know , because he know scripture even well than I , that right do not get a mention in the ten commandment or the Sermon on the Mount . perhaps he can find a part in either of those to contradict I . I do not mean to intervene , but the right hon . Gentleman have tempt I . this be not a liberal thing , as many conservative ought to support it . I do not believe there be any case for human right have any standing whatsoever without some form of metaphysical . he be quite right to say that the Bible do not talk about right ; it talk about individual duty . if I have duty to he , he therefore have right . I do not believe that right be make up by human being ; they be literally God - give . my opinion of the hon . Gentleman have soar to an even great height . I know he be the good of liberal — that be not a great thing to be , by the way , but it be well than nothing — and he have confirm it in that pithy intervention . the crucial point about amendment 11 to 18 be that they rule out use section 4 and 7 of the Human Rights Act . we know from experience that the good intention of government , back up by legislation pass in this place , have be routinely frustrate by what my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Fareham rightly describe as activist lawyer abroad , and , I would add , dodgy lawyer in this country and delude pressure group ; it be not just malevolent foreigner , but malevolent people here , too . I say to the Minister that the only way we will effect the policy be if we do not allow that kind of gaming of our system by those who come here . I entirely accept that there be among they people whom we should of course welcome . of course there be people fear persecution , and of course we should be proud of the fact that we provide a safe haven for people in desperate need — we always have and we always will — but people who be legitimate applicant for asylum be be effectively compromise by a system that do not adequately distinguish they from the very people I have describe as game our far too lax system . the Bill be an opportunity to put that right , but only if it be fit for purpose . the amendment be not design to frustrate the Minister ' s intention or to allow the Prime Minister ' s pledge to fail . on the contrary , they be design to make his pledge real : to allow it to be effect . for if the amendment be not accept by the Government , I fear the Bill will do just that : fail and disappoint the very people to whom we make that pledge to stop the boat . section 4 of the Human Rights Act deal with declaration of incompatibility and section 10 , as I describe it , deal with remedial measure . as it stand , they be not exclude by the Bill . that mean that unamended , the Bill will allow a court to issue a declaration of incompatibility with the ECHR , which would effectively kill the Rwanda scheme . the Minister must know that that be a possibility at least — we would argue a probability — but even if it be a possibility , why would he not want to exclude that possibility ? perhaps I could just elaborate on the point my right hon . friend be make . what be most likely to happen be the amendment not to be accept by this place be that on Royal Assent someone will bring a case seek a declaration of incompatibility for the Bill . that will then go through the court . if the Supreme Court be then to rule , ultimately , that the Bill be incompatible with the Human Rights Act , it would then be up to this House and Parliament to determine what to do . but if the Prime Minister be correct that the Government of Rwanda would not wish to be a party to any scheme that be in breach of international law , the scheme would be dead . my right hon . friend explain exactly the point I be make . the intention of the Bill be put at risk by the failure to close the loophole . it be just that : an opportunity for people to exploit , in exactly the way he say , the absence of provision that would strengthen , or in the Prime Minister ' s word tighten , the Bill sufficiently to avoid such an eventuality . all the british people expect be real fairness and hearing with real judge . we have be speak about the European Court of Human Rights . be it not the case that many who be appoint to that Strasbourg Court have never even be lawyer — they be not qualified — let alone judge ? often , they be academic , civil servant or even politician . more recently , as time have go on , they have be human right activist . these non - lawyer be often guide by non - governmental organisation , who even help to draft their judgment . they be what Lord Sumption have describe as " ideologically commit staff lawyer " . why should we in this place and in this wonderful country be subservient to that notion of international justice ? make law here — that be what our people want . in that pithy intervention , my hon . friend have describe much of the fundamental problem of allow what my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) describe as a foreign court with foreign judge to determine outcome that directly affect the interest of this country . will my right hon . friend give way , on that point ? my hon . friend the Member for Derbyshire Dales ( Miss Dines ) advance so many compelling argument in her intervention that I want to deal with all of they before I give way to my right hon . friend . there be three aspect of this . the first be that our judicial system be not common but particular and special , be root in english common law but also , largely owe to the separation of power , mean that our court be independent from the legislature and the Executive , so we have a strong tradition of both judicial quality and judicial independence . that be not true of many other country in Europe . I be now happy to give way to my right hon . friend , who will elaborate . People talk about the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg as if it be rather like our own Supreme Court or that of the United States but , as I say early , I be a member of the Council of Europe , so I know exactly how these judge be appoint . we in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe appoint they : it be the one power that we have . we be give three name , and we have very little information about who those people be , but it be undoubtedly true — there be evidence of this — that more and more of they be not , like our judge , distinguished lawyer and judge ; they be , for instance , human right lawyer and academic . what be bad about the process be that , unlike our judge , they be not appoint through an independent process . the political group in the Parliamentary Assembly , dominate by the socialist and the federalist Christian Democrats , join together to appoint the most federalist pro - european judge . it be that to which I be allude . the separation that exist in this country between the judiciary and the legislature in the political process and the process of justice simply do not apply in many of the other country in Europe , and it certainly do not apply far afield . there be a problem of the politicisation of the court and also , as I say early , there be a problem of quality , both of which be refer to by my hon . friend the Member for Derbyshire Dales and my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough . secondly , there be an issue of accountability . the point about law in this country be that it be make in this place . the reason why that be so significant be that this place derive its legitimacy from election — democratic and fair election . we be empower to make law in this Parliament because we be accountable and answerable to the people . as soon as we subsume that accountability into some pan - national arrangement , especially the kind outline in my hon . friend ' s intervention , we weaken this House , and by weaken this House we weaken the people who send we here . that be partly why their view of the world be so at odd with what I describe early as the political elite , although what I really mean be the bourgeois liberal elite who dominate far too much of the establishment in all its element . there be a bourgeois liberal incarnate ! I exclude the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale . he be liberal but he be not bourgeois — at least , as far as I be aware . I be not . he definitely be not . the amendment that disapply the Human Rights Act be fundamental to the Bill ' s success . may I just say as an aside — it be , of course , entirely relevant to the Bill , Sir Roger — that we should , in government , from 2010 onwards , have get rid of the Human Rights Act anyway ? it be a Blair construction , through the prism of which all legislation now seem to be see . it be a very damaging statute that have stymie much of the work of subsequent government . amendment 23 to 25 , take together , would prevent the notorious rule 39 injunction — the so - call last - minute pyjama injunction — which emanate from Strasbourg . these amendment would ensure that the default position be that rule 39 indication be not bind and this be explicitly a matter for Ministers . the Government ' s own legal advice have make it clear that without amendment to the Bill , flight may be ground yet again . minister will indeed have the opportunity to introduce exception , but will not be bind to do so . the Bill must be amend so that Ministers can disregard rule 39 order . we really can not allow Strasbourg judge to overrule this Parliament and halt flight . decision must be take by those elect in Westminster , not by court in Europe . this be what the people expect of we ; it be what the people demand of we . the Bill may block claim about the general state of Rwanda , but it will still permit individual claim , which will block removal unless such individual claim be explicitly exclude . we know that spurious case be use to frustrate removal , and thus the legislation will have no tooth . the Minister know that these thing go on for day and week and month . these case be never resolve quickly , and time be short . consequently , the Government must surely acknowledge that , at the very least , the flight that they , and we , regard as a necessary part of deal with the scourge of illegal immigration will be delay . the amendment will block individual claim and suspensive claim , limit such claim to exceptional circumstance . there be circumstance , perhaps when a seriously ill person can not travel , that should be accept — I hope we would all agree with that — but those will be rare case . the Home Office have already correctly exclude family , child and pregnant woman , but those circumstance be incredibly unlikely , give what I have say about the profile of those people arrive in small boat be overwhelmingly fit man under the age of 40 . this be the third migration Bill in recent time . it be our third and final chance , as other have say , to deliver on our promise to the british people to stop the boat and control our border . if we fail to strengthen the Bill in the way that these amendment do , it will simply not work , and if we fail to make the Bill work , we will fail the british people . we will have break our promise to they . thousand more people will make risky journey in perilous condition and our hotel will remain full of those await judgment at enormous cost . the british people will regard this as a failure that be root here in this House and in this Government . the Minister be a good man and a diligent Minister and I be sure he understand the thrust of the argument that have be make in the Committee today . he will know that , in the end , this be about a fundamental crisis of democratic efficacy : the ability of a nation state to deliver for its people . the great conservative Prime Minister of all time , Benjamin Disraeli , say that " justice be truth in action . " — [ Official Report , 11 February 1851 ; Vol . 114 , c . 412 . ] this issue be a matter of justice — legal justice and social justice . it be for that reason that the british people want to see the boat stop . they simply regard it as unjust that our border be be breach with impunity . if the elect Government of the United Kingdom can not remove people who arrive here without permission , a more troubling and profound question must be ask . who govern our country ? my constituent want the Government they elect and the Parliament they vote for to determine who govern Britain . only by improve this Bill and by deliver the Prime Minister ' s mission of stop the boat can we answer that question . this have be a very interesting Committee , range from the metaphysical to mps feed each other baked bean , and from a constitutional tour of the history of Scotland to the case of John Hirst , who live in Hull . he put an axe through his landlady ' s head , go to prison and fight a campaign for prisoner to have the right to vote — we have discuss prisoner ' right to vote in the past . we have also hear a lot of criticism of lawyer , but I have to say that some of the good speech we have hear this afternoon have be from lawyer . I do not know whether they count as leftie lawyer , as they be sit on the conservative Benches in the majority of case . I be conscious that this be not Second reading , but I refer the Committee to the report on small boat crossing produce by the Home Affairs Committee 18 month ago : " there be no magical single solution to deal with irregular migration . detailed , evidence - drive , fully cost and fully test policy initiative be by far most likely to achieve sustainable incremental change that deter journey such as dangerous Channel crossing . " we also say that the no . 1 issue the Government need to address be the backlog , on which I be pleased there have be some progress . the backlog be still about 90 , 000 , but that be an improvement on where we be last year . I be concern about amendment 11 to 18 and 23 to 25 , table by the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , because if they be accept , they would put the United Kingdom on a collision course with international law . I also want to speak to amendment 36 and new clause 7 in relation to the cost of the Rwanda policy . clause 3 disapplie the Human Rights Act , and amendment 11 to 18 would extend this disapplication , thereby extend the permission this Bill grant for public authority to act in way that be incompatible with human right . specifically , amendment 11 and 12 appear to extend the disapplication of the Human Rights Act to anything do under the Illegal Migration Act relate to the removal of a person to Rwanda . this could potentially include a person ' s detention and treatment prior to removal , mean that not only would no legal challenge be possible under amendment 22 , which we discuss yesterday , but there would be no specific legal obligation on public authority to act in compatibility with human right . extend the disapplication of section 2 and 3 of the Human Rights Act to all immigration legislation , as it relate to a person ' s removal to Rwanda under this Bill or the Illegal Migration Act , would raise serious concern about unforeseen consequence and unintended human right violation . it should also be note that amend the Bill to disapply section 4 of the Human Rights Act , which have never be do before , do not have any clear legal purpose . it would simply prevent the court from tell the Government and the public their view on the law . as the Secretary of State have already say on the face of the Bill that he be unable to say that it be compatible with convention right , no one could reasonably presume that a statement of the same from the court would have any impact at all , which be why I be query these amendment . the former Immigration Minister , the right hon . member for Newark , open the debate with amendment 23 and 25 , and he talk about take the pin out of a grenade . clause 5 concern interim measure of the European Court of Human Rights , state that it will be for a Minister , and only a Minister , to decide whether the UK will comply . at this point , let I again pay tribute to the Chair of the Justice Committee , the hon . member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , and the Chair of the Joint Committee on Human Rights , the hon . and learn Member for Edinburgh South West ( Joanna Cherry ) , for their clear explanation of the current situation on these interim injunction ; for set out clearly what the UK ' s involvement with that Court be and our long - stand commitment to it ; and for set out that a review be take place on those interim injunction , which be very helpful . amendment 23 and 25 would stipulate that interim measure from the European Court of Human Rights — the so - call " pyjama injunction " — which halt the removal of the asylum seeker to Rwanda in 2022 be " not bind " on the UK and have " no effect " on a person ' s removal to Rwanda . although the amendment allow that a Minister may choose not to remove someone where interim measure have be indicate , amendment 25 make amendment to exist provision on the treatment of interim measure in the Illegal Migration Act 2023 that be design to make it clear that the Secretary of State , immigration officer and the court must not have regard to interim measure in relation to removal to Rwanda . as we have be discuss , these interim measure be make under rule 39 of the rule of procedure of the European Court of Human Rights and therefore do not form part of the text of the convention ratify by the UK . however , the Court , the body that determine the meaning of the convention , have hold consistently that fail to comply with interim measure amount to a breach of article 34 of the convention itself : the obligation not to " hinder in any way " the right to bring claim before the Court . therefore , any decision of a Minister not to comply with interim measure would be inconsistent with the UK ' s obligation under the convention . the legal advice that the Home Affairs Committee have receive be that the amendment before we this afternoon would therefore put the UK directly in conflict with the European Court of Human Rights . worryingly , there have also be report today in the medium that the Government be consider amend the civil service code to require civil servant to ignore interim measure from the Court . the general secretary of the FDA have describe that as " madness " . interestingly , there may be some synergy here with the Minister ' s approach , because I understand that when he be Solicitor General he back the Attorney General ' s advice state that ignore a rule 39 order would breach international law and that the Government should not even indicate that they would refuse to comply . amendment 36 and new clause 5 and 7 relate to cost , and I want to look at another aspect miss from the Bill and deserving of some scrutiny : how much this policy will cost . I want to speak to those proposal particularly because of what have happen recently with the attempt by the Home Affairs Committee and Public Accounts Committee to find out about the cost of the Rwanda policy . there be far too much that we do not know about how much policy will cost and how much taxpayer ' money be go to be spend . that be why new clause 7 , which would require the Secretary of State to promptly notify Parliament of any payment make under the Rwanda treaty , have merit . I hope that the Minister will look carefully at that new clause . it be why amendment 36 , require the publication of a full impact assessment on the cost involve in removal to Rwanda and publication of the financial memorandum sign with Rwanda , also carry great merit . as I be say , the Home Affairs Committee and the Public Accounts Committee have find it very difficult to get basic financial information from the Government on the Rwanda scheme , which be why new clause 5 be also worthy of the Minister ' s careful consideration . new clause 5 would place the monitor committee for the Rwanda treaty on a statutory footing , which would enable great oversight of the implementation of the treaty . crucially , it would ensure that Parliament can do its fundamental job of scrutinise Government policy . as the Home Affairs Committee spelt out 18 month ago in our report , which I quote from early , dangerous channel crossing will stop only when we have the evidence - drive , fully - test policy initiative I have talk about , and when they be properly cost . it seem to I that that be plainly not the case at the moment . that be crucial for we not only to deliver a policy that stop small boat , but more widely to ensure the responsible and effective use of public money . it be important to remember that when the Rwanda scheme be announce , the permanent secretary at the Home Office require a ministerial direction from the Home Secretary to implement the policy , as the permanent secretary judge — he still hold the same view — that there be no evidence that the scheme would constitute value for money . on that basis , one might think that the Government would be keen to demonstrate exactly how much public money they be spend , to allay fear that the money be not be well spend . I be very concerned about the position they have get themselves into , as we still do not know how much will be pay to Rwanda in the final two year of the migration and economic development partnership , or the per person cost of relocate an individual to Rwanda . the most substantive update we have receive recently on the cost of the scheme come about by accident , because someone apparently muck up and publish detail in the International Monetary Fund ' s board paper . we find out about that unwitting disclosure in a similarly haphazard way , with a late - night letter from the permanent secretary to myself and my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) , the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , which he then post on the Home Office website . it appear that rwandan mp be able to find out exactly how much money the British Government be pay for the scheme , but british mp be not allow to have the same information make available to we , unless it be disclose seemingly by mistake . what we do know be that follow the £ 140 million pay to Rwanda in the financial year 2022 - 23 , there be an additional payment of £ 100 million in April 2023 and a furth £ 50 million will be pay in the financial year 2024 - 25 . as I have say , the deal with Rwanda be for five year and the Government be still not willing to tell we exactly how much be pledge in those final two year . as for the money pay to Rwanda already , we now have some information . I be grateful that the Minister for counter Illegal Migration be able to provide some information in a letter , which the Home Affairs Committee have publish today . it set out how the £ 120 million be be spend , say 39 % be spend on education , 21 % on infrastructure , 19 % on job creation , 13 % on health , 5 % on agriculture and 3 % on information and communication technology . we know that the Government have also pledge to pay Rwanda a certain amount in relation to each asylum seeker remove there , but yet again we do not know how much that will be . all we have be able to glean from the Home Office be from the economic impact assessment to the Illegal Migration Bill , publish at the tail end of its progress through Parliament , which estimate that the cost of relocate a single individual seek asylum to a third country — Rwanda — would be £ 169 , 000 per person . we be tell that that represent " additional cost incur relative to process an individual through … the current migration system . " I understand from previous Immigration Ministers that the cost of process an individual in the United Kingdom be around £ 12 , 000 , so there be quite a differential between £ 12 , 000 and £ 169 , 000 . it be not just those core cost that we be unclear about . there be multiple layer of other possible , probable and prescribed payment involve in the delivery of the policy that we have not be give any detail on . for instance , the treaty with Rwanda establish a new appeal body for individual apply for asylum that will be staff by judge from , we be tell , " a mix of nationality " . will the United Kingdom be pay for that new international appeal body and its staffing ? if so , how much will that be ? the treaty also specify that any person send to Rwanda will be entitle to a permanent residence permit . this deal with the refoulement issue that the Supreme Court be concern about , and it mean that a person will stay in Rwanda even if their asylum claim be unsuccessful . we do not know what the financial implication of that be for the british taxpayer and what payment will be pay , if any , to the Rwandan Government in connection with those unsuccessful asylum application . the treaty also specify that the initial asylum decision will be make by individual who be appropriately train , and that , for the first six month , no claim will be reject unless advice have be take from a seconded independent expert . will the UK be provide any additional money to Rwanda to train these decision maker and employ these independent expert ? the treaty guarantee free legal advice to claimant during the asylum process . will the UK be make any payment to Rwanda to back up that guarantee ? again , we have not have anything from Ministers to tell we this basic information to enable we to effectively scrutinise the policy . that be also before the announcement that be make in the write ministerial statement yesterday where the Lord Chancellor set out that there will be 150 low - level judge appoint to the Upper Tribunal in the United Kingdom to hear appeal quickly . I think that that be a concession to Conservative Members who be very concerned about the number of appeal that might flow from the Bill . I do hear the Minister on the news this morning be ask about the cost of the 150 judge , and he be not able to say what that cost be . again , that be another factor that we need to consider when we be look at the value for money of this policy . so , give the failure that I have talk about in relation to transparency and give the resistance that the Home Affairs and the Public Accounts Committees have encounter in get more detail on the cost of the Rwanda scheme , amendment 36 and new clause 7 would be very helpful to Parliament in get that information . those be the main point that I want to raise today , but , again , I reiterate that a huge amount of political capital and parliamentary time be be spend on this Bill . what we do know , and what the Home Affairs Committee say 18 month ago , be that we still do not have the evidence that this Bill will actually do what the Government think it will do , which be to deter people from get in small boat and cross the channel . there be a huge amount of resource go into this , but , as I say at the start , there must be a range of initiative to deal with illegal migration . there be no one magic policy that the Government can use to stop the problem that we have with small boat . I hope the Minister will take that into account in his closing comment . may I start by draw the Committee ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests ? the Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner constituency be a part of north - west London that have be shape by generation of refugee , start in the period around the second world war with large member of European Jews flee persecution . successive wave of people have come from across the world , find refuge and become part of our community . understandably , I have a lot of view to share not just about this Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill , but about previous legislation that we have have on the issue of migration . although I will focus my contribution on the amendment around the role of the european convention and the European Court of Human Rights , it seem to I that , in a debate which at time have become quite philosophical , there be a wide recognition among our constituent that share sovereignty be often in practice great sovereignty . I be a big fan of those fine british philosopher , Hobbes and Locke , who talk about the social contract . it be clear that , when we work closely with our neighbour , we achieve the most effective measure against widespread , illegal and irregular migration flow . we have already see effective work with the french authority to tackle the activity of some of the gang in northern France , which have contribute to bring down the number cross the channel . in my contribution , I will attempt to add some further evidence to our deliberation in a way that I hope will help encourage Ministers and to emphasise my support for take forward the Bill in its unamended form , as I know the Government seek to achieve . when we look at the role of sheer sovereignty , many example well beyond that of the European Court and the european convention on human right have a significant bearing on the issue . we look at , for example , the United Nations convention on the law of the sea , which set out the responsibility that the United Kingdom and other have in the english channel in respect of refugee boat . that have frustrate the view of past Home Secretaries about how we might specifically tackle that issue , but we have yet to see a great deal of debate in this Chamber about why we should repudiate that convention , despite the fact that the International Maritime Organisation be base just across the river . the international tribunal that deal with the convention be base in Hamburg and could similarly be describe as a foreign court . indeed , our own Judicial Committee of the Privy Council act as the Supreme Court of Appeal for a number of country and jurisdiction around the world that be not part of the United Kingdom and that be not subject to UK law . indeed , despite the fact that both the european convention and our own law prohibit the death penalty , our own Privy Council Committee , draw from parliamentarian in the United Kingdom , have hear appeal , such as the Chandler case of 2011 regard the death penalty in Trinidad and Tobago . it be clear that there be a long and establish history of nation come together to establish international convention , process and tribunal to administer the law in the interest of not only our harmonious relationship with each other , but the long - term and great benefit of our citizen . in respect of that particular problem , it be clear that the work do by the late James Brokenshire when he be the Minister deal with illegal migration to secure , in particular , the port and railhead in northern France have contribute to the problem we face today , in that the people smuggler have nowhere else to go , other than small boat , which the Bill aim to stop . a good deal have be say about the good way we can deal with the role of the european convention on human right in the operation of the Bill and other matter arise from it . we know the ECHR be a very broad organisation . it come into being after the second world war , as we have hear . my argument for why we should reject the amendment to its role , and in particular those around interim measure , be that we already have an extensive series of lever that we can exercise to shape thing . indeed , the reason those interim measure exist be not merely that judge in the court decide they would like to have they , but because parliamentarian from the UK and other member state , other politician , Ministers and Governments have argue for that court to take on a great role over the year in response to the challenge . some of those challenge have affect , for example , british citizen catch up in the conflict in Ukraine , where those interim measure have potentially influence the safe return of those people to the United Kingdom . we have the Council of Ministers — the directly appoint member of our government who sit together and determine what the priority of that convention and court should be . we have the Parliamentary Assembly . a good deal have be say about the role of the judge , and it be worth remember at this point that the judge of our Supreme Court in the United Kingdom and , indeed , our entire judicial process be completely free of political interference . the judge of the European Court of Human Rights be directly elect by parliamentarian from their member state . indeed , the legal committee of the european convention on human right in the Parliamentary Assembly be chair by my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) , who I would hardly describe as a bourgeois liberal . like my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , I think its characterisation as a foreign court be no more accurate than it be to say that the international tribunal for the law of the sea be a foreign court or , indeed , that our Judicial Committee of the Privy Council be a foreign court when it deal with matter at the request of other jurisdiction , which it do on a regular basis . have serve on the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of Europe , the local government element that look at how those law be hand down and implement in practice , it be clear to I that we have a significant number of diplomatic and other lever that we can exercise if we feel that the court need to move its practice in a different direction . it be also clear that the court have already begin that process in the light of comment from the United Kingdom and other . my argument be that it be in our interest , because it benefit our citizen and our country , to maintain our membership of the european convention on human right . the fact that we maintain our active support for and membership of that organisation underpin much of our public influence in the world and give we the moral authority to ask other to do thing . we can seek to address those issue use our elect member of this House who sit in those assembly , our elect politician who sit in other assembly such as the congress , and our academic and appointee who sit on body such as the Venice Commission , which advise on the gold standard for the conduct of election . we can use all those lever at our disposal to convey our view to the court and the convention organisation about how we should proceed . in respect of the judge themselves , it be very positive to hear from other hon . member who have be part of that process , because we know that , contrary to what have sometimes be say , there be a two - stage process : for someone to be a candidate to be a judge , they have to meet the requirement for international judicial appointment in term of both legal qualification and relevant experience , and they be then put forward for election by the politician who place they on the court . their decision , certainly in respect of the so - call pyjama injunction , seem to be very little different from those that magistrate such as I and other across this country will be ask to take on matter of judicial warrant . we be ask to make a decision to enable an intervention to happen at a moment of urgency , and then in due course there be a long period of opportunity for that to be consider by the court and all other who may have a stake in it . I be so pleased that we be hear this very clear explanation of the court and the judge ; after what have be say in this debate , it be very refreshing to hear . I thank the hon . Gentleman , who I also think be a lawyer — I do not know if he be a lefty lawyer , but I think he be a lawyer . I be grateful to the right hon . Lady . I be not a lawyer , but I serve as a magistrate in this country . it be always my pleasure to say that I belong to that even more despised race of human being , the Tory mps , and that I be formerly a banker . I think we be right to have some degree of concern in respect of what be say in the Bill and the amendment about the Human Rights Act . this House need to strike the correct balance . it be a fundamental principle of british justice , which date back at least as far as the Saxons , that people may not be subject to a penalty unless they have have the opportunity to be bring before a court , a properly compose judicial authority . therefore , we should be concern at the idea that in the United Kingdom we would exempt a group of people from access to our law on the basis of the method of their arrival here . however , we need to balance that against the fact that people be die in the english channel , drown in cold water , and gang be profit hugely from that , which be fuel all kind of other type of crime . to an extent , we be a victim of our previous success in that the improved security in northern France have create and massively exacerbate the problem we face . that , for I , balance up the risk to a loss of human right : we need to ensure that we have a really effective deterrent in place to address the problem that have arise from that early success . it be and remain my view , which I express in the debate on the then Illegal Migration Bill , that the point at which we will establish full control of our border be the point at which we add an asylum visa to all the other type of visa we have , so that there be a single safe and legal route , control by the British Government and the rule set by this House , and if people arrive on our shore to claim asylum without have gain that permission first , they be automatically ineligible regardless of their method of arrival . that would mirror the process we already have in place for people who want to come here to work , to study , to marry or to invest in the United Kingdom . we still have not yet put in place an effective process and system that would enable we to do that . it be clearly crucial , as the weather will soon begin to improve , the smuggler will soon be look to invest in their stock boat and more people ' s life will soon be put at risk , that we keep our eye on the objective of return to something more like the syrian vulnerable person resettlement scheme , which be describe by the UNHCR as a " gold standard " of international refugee resettlement . that be the model on which we base our afghan resettlement scheme , whatever logistical problem that experience , and this House have recognise it as the way in which the UK wish to play a part in refugee resettlement around the world . however , we need to ensure that we deal with the specific problem that arise : small boat in the channel . for all the debate and well - intentione argument that we have hear , the Bill , in its unamended form , strike the good balance available to address that particular problem and ensure that no one else die en route to seek asylum here in the United Kingdom . for that reason , I will support the Bill , unamended . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) . it be refreshing to hear somebody on the Conservative Benches talk up the merit of an asylum visa . that would break the model of the people - smuggle gang because it would give people a safe and legal route and safety and certainty . nobody need be exploit by pay over everything that they own to get into a leaky dinghy in the channel if they could come here for safety and sanctuary by travel as any of we would travel . I understand from other in the Committee that Conservative Members be quite keen to wind up the debate early tonight because they be go to a Burns supper . I be not sure whether that be true , but it be certainly a rumour that I hear early . it make I think of some of the thing that Robert Burns — I be a big fan of our national bard — might have to say to the conservative party about the way in which it conduct its business . let I start with : " man ' s inhumanity to man , make countless thousand mourn . " I commend to the Committee the amendment table in my name , as well as those table by my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow North ( Patrick Grady ) and my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Joanna Cherry ) . I will first address clause 3 on the disapplication of the Human Rights Act 1998 . that Act be landmark legislation . it be weave into the fabric of our devolved institution , and it underpin the Good Friday agreement . it should concern we all that a Government without any kind of mandate to do so start pick away the stitching . the Law Society say that the exclusion of the Human Rights Act to this extent be unprecedented . speak of defend the right of people to migrate , Robert Burns , who have a verse on just about everything , have one on the right of highlander against their laird , who be not allow they to migrate to Canada . he say : " they ! an ' be damn ! what right hae they to meat or sleep or light o ' day , far less to rich , pow ' r or freedom , but what your lordship please to gie they ? " we should give asylum seeker far more than this Government think they have a right to gie they . disapplye section 6 remove the obligation for court and immigration official to take into account human right when assess the safety of Rwanda . disapplye section 3 limit the protection that court can provide . disapplye section 2 force court to ignore any European Court of Human Rights ruling of Rwanda as unsafe . those be important protection : not only do they ensure people ' s safety from Government , but they act as a check specifically on the Home Office — a Home Office that we know have long and consistent form in make serious mistake with long - last and life - change consequence . one need only reflect on the legacy of Windrush , TOEIC — the test of English for international communication — and the highly skilled migrant scandal to know the scale of Home Office incompetence . we need the court to offer protection against the Home Office ' s instinct to deport first and ask question later . amendment 11 to 18 in the name of the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) make an already unjustifiable situation much , much bad . liberty have state that they effectively remove the possibility of secure any remedy — much less an effective one — for the breach or threaten breach of right arise from removal to Rwanda on the basis that it be an unsafe country . Robert Burns say in his " slave ' s Lament " : tear from that lovely shore , and must never see it more ; and alas ! I be weary , weary o . " I think we all feel that weariness about the circularity of the Government ' s ridiculous argument . it be unsafe for the refugee who get to come here from Rwanda , but somehow , it be safe enough for we to send people to Rwanda . it make absolutely no sense . this government ' s move of people to Rwanda against their will be nothing but state - sponsor people traffic . this Government be now in effect a criminal gang , move people across the world . People move against their will , with no regard to their safety and no recourse to appeal , to a country they do not know , involve money and profit — that sound like people smuggle to I . conservative Members either can not see that , or frankly just do not care , because to they , these be not really people who we be talk about . they never have to see they ; they never have to engage with they ; they never have they cry across the desk in front of they at a community hall on a Friday . it be utterly despicable . I turn now to clause 5 , which deal with interim measure of the European Court of Human Rights . interim measure be important and , accord to the Court ' s well - establish practice , apply only where there be an " imminent risk of irreparable harm " . clause 5 expand on the previous provision of the Illegal Migration Act to ignore interim measure . the provision that we pass under the Illegal Migration Act be not even in force yet — as I mention yesterday , it be only 181 day since that Act get Royal Assent , but here we be this afternoon , legislate yet again . interim measure exist not just in international law , but in our own domestic law . as my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Edinburgh South West say , they often happen late at night . that be the nature of these thing : they be last - minute protection for people who have no other recourse or remedy . they be not unusual , but refuse to comply with they — as the Bill set out , and as the right hon . member for Newark ' s amendment demand — would be a clear and serious breach of international law . no mere technicality here : it would be a serious breach of international law . where do that leave we with the Government of Rwanda , whose Minister have be quite clear on the need for this agreement to be compliant with international law ? today , the rwandan President Paul Kagame say to the Guardian that " there be limit for how long this can drag on " , and that he would be happy for the scheme to be scrap entirely . the Government be on very shaky ground here . be the Minister and the right hon . member for Newark really go to have we believe that we can cross our finger behind our back and nobody will know that the UK Government break international law ? they be have we on . what be particularly daft about clause 5 be that the European Court of Human Rights have already respond to the concern that UK Ministers have raise . in November last year , the Court provisionally adopt amendment to rule 39 of its rule of court on the procedure for interim measure , tighten up the circumstance and the procedure . the Court be also change the procedure that Member after Member howl about early on , so that judge be no long anonymous . I do not know whether , as a result of the amendment Conservative Members have table , those judge will be force to disclose their preferred nightwear — perhaps that be a matter of discretion . the grievance that the right hon . member for Newark , and the UK Government and their Back Benchers , howl about be be address , which make this Bill even more of a waste of everybody ' s time , money and energy . what damage do it do when the UK Government continue to behave like a petulant child , rather than engage constructively with the international organisation of which they be a part ? they send a judge to the Court — they be part of this process . it be not somebody else ' s court : it be our Court . we be part of it . furthermore , place all decision on compliance with an interim measure in the hand of a Minister be a deeply worrying suggestion — a Minister be far less appropriate than a court . maybe that Minister will also be in their pyjama as they sign off a batch of human cargo in the dead of night , but since that will presumably be a british Minister in Union Jack pyjama rather than a european judge in a blue onesie with yellow star , Conservative Members will probably think that be perfectly acceptable . they care more about flag than about right , and they have the cheek to call we nationalist . deliberately breach international law be no long something we need assume a Minister of this particular Government would in any way hesitate to do . the Law Society of Scotland have add to the criticism of that power , say that it contradict the doctrine of the separation of power between the Executive and the judiciary . as the right hon . and learn Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) point out , such a move would have serious foreign policy implication . I support the amendment table by the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) , and while I appreciate its intention , it be hard not to feel that the amendment in the name of the official Opposition be merely an attempt to water the clause down by have a Minister consult with their Attorney General . give that the right hon . and learn Member for Fareham ( Suella Braverman ) be the Attorney General before be Home Secretary and then sign the amendment table today that undermine human right , I be not sure that be the protection that the official opposition think it be . I note the various amendment and the effort of the right hon . and learn Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) and his colleague to amend this Bill , but I think we all know that they be on a hiding to nothing . move on to clause 8 , the extent clause , the SNP have be very clear — very clear indeed — that we do not believe in this cruel and unnecessary Bill . we do not support it , and our attempt to decisively declare that this be not in Scotland ' s name come in the form of amendment 4 , 5 and 32 to 34 , in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow North and my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Edinburgh South West . they attempt to remove Scotland from the territorial extent of the Bill and to require the legislative consent of the Scottish Parliament . as my hon . and learn Friend point out early , this have a significant impact on the ability of scottish court and our legal system to work effectively . we have ask for the legislative consent of the Scottish Parliament before this legislation come into force . it be gey chilly in Scotland today , but I can say to the Minister that hell would freeze over before he obtain our legislative consent to this Bill . move to clause 9 , on commencement , amendment 41 seek to separate the treaty from this Bill and ensure that the treaty itself receive the scrutiny it deserve , give the significance of the provision make in that treaty . I do not know how many colleague have examine the treaty , but I think it be quite right and quite appropriate that this House should do so in a debate , as the Home Affairs Committee have ask . lastly , because of the way that this strange process be lay out , I move to clause 1 . it come last — of course it do — in this topsy - turvy world of Westminster . the principle of the Bill remain abhorrent to we . international law be not something that state should disregard when it inconvenience they . again , Burns have an important principle . in his letter to Mrs Frances Anna Dunlop , he say : " whatever mitigate the woe or increase the happiness of other , this be my criterion for goodness ; and whatever injure society at large , or any individual in it , this be my measure of iniquity . " this Bill be riddle with iniquity and harm . we rightly call out state that abuse human right , ignore their court and treat people in a dehumanising manner , and there be absolutely no justification for the UK do so . it be merely a bogeyman to distract the public from the chaos that the Conservatives have preside over all these year . our amendment 39 , 40 and 42 to 44 seek to assert the importance of comply with our international obligation to abide by the Human Rights Act . it be astonishing — astonishing — that we be require to do so , but as the Bill ' s preface set out , the Bill be very much incompatible with convention right , and this Tory Government wish to have we carry on regardless . the Right Rev . Sally Foster - Fulton , the Moderator of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland , have be among many voice call out this appalling legislation . she say : " this bill threaten to destroy that " — the UK ' s — " reputation , reduce our ability to speak with any credibility on injustice and human right abuse across the world . it also set a worrying precedent that fundamental human right can be erode and deny to some . " far be it from I to rush to the defence of the UK ' s international reputation , but I urge member to consider the wide implication of this cruel policy . it be not domestic ; it be international , and it have wide - reach implication . Scotland want no part of this fail , expensive and cruel Rwanda plan . we look forward instead to the day that we be no long beholden to this insular and damage UK immigration policy , and to this Parliament that do not speak in our name . we want Scotland to take her place in the world with all of the responsibility that that entail in the international community . to finish , again , with Burns : " for a ' that , an ' a ' that , it ' s comin yet for a ' that , that man to man the world o ' er , Shall brother be for a ' that . " it have be a very long debate . I have listen with intent to everybody who have speak , and I admit to learn quite a lot today . unfortunately , not everybody who have speak be still here to listen to I , although I have listen to they , but that tend to happen quite a lot in this House . People speak for a very long time at the beginning and , unfortunately , they never get to listen to other . it be mainly lawyer who have speak . I often think , before I become a Member of Parliament , that this place would be good if full of lawyer . that be what it should be about — we be make law — so maybe that be right . I be correct by my right hon . friend the Member for North East Somerset ( Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg ) , though . I do not know I be go to speak with he today , but he tell I , " it be wonderful that people like yourself , Nick , be here . " after listen to what I have hear today , and have listen to what I have hear with regard to the recent Post Office case , it seem to I that lawyer be just able to talk at this level continually , back and forth and back and forth . in the Post Office case , £ 60 million be apparently give to look after the postmaster , and £ 40 million of it be spend on lawyer . what I be try to get at be that , for all of the talking that have happen , the people who put we here be still struggle like mad to understand why , when we put people on a plane , somebody from Strasbourg can say , " no , they don ' t have to go , " and we all watch aghast that this be happen . they struggle to understand why , as be mention in the Telegraph last week , someone who have be catch and convict for produce £ 500 , 000 of cannabis could not be deport because he could no long speak his mother tongue . they can not understand why we can not deport an immigrant who have take £ 8 million from organised crime and try to smuggle it out of this country because of his human right . human right be obviously extremely important , and anyone who mention come out of the ECHR automatically get lambaste by many people on the Opposition Benches , but unfortunately , the people who put we here can not understand why these thing be happen . whatever happen , these judge that we be talk about , who we have supposedly elect , need to come to Doncaster and see what be happen there , as I say in my speech before Christmas . we should be able to have conversation like this without be heckled , and without be call out on Twitter every time we say this . that be because of the nastiness that come from the left , which stop these conversation happen ; it stop we be able to have decent conversation and debate . I listen to my colleague who be sit on the back row and they speak a lot of sense — they really do — and I take it on board , but I have hon . friend who sit with I who want to use these amendment to tighten up the Bill . when I hear about what we be try to do I have to agree with they that it need tighten up , because we can not keep on put people on a plane and then take they back off again . we can not keep on let people come to this country and abuse the system , use taxpayer ' money to defend they while we be give they board and lodging in hotel next door to school . we have get to stop this happening . I support the amendment because I want to help the Government with their promise to stop the boat . if we stop the boat , we stop the tragedy that be happen out at sea . five people die last week ; we need to make sure that that do not happen again . we need to stop the boat because we be put here by the taxpayer of this country — by my and our constituent — and we need to make sure that they be get value for money for every pound that be take in their tax . when we speak about human right , we have to remember the right of the british people who put we here . I will support these amendment because I have to do whatever I can to make sure that the people who put I here be treat fairly and their right be consider above anybody else ' s . it be a pleasure to contribute to this incredibly important debate . I be very happy to sign the amendment table by my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) — amendment 11 to 18 and 23 to 25 . I be also happy to support his amendment and the amendment from my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) yesterday . I have concern about the Bill as it stand . I want exactly the same thing as the Minister , which be for the boat to stop , and they will only stop if we have a deterrent . I have not see an example across the world of this situation be properly deal with without a deterrent , and it be critically important that we have one . it concern I that the exceptionally narrow ground for individual appeal will not be as narrow as the Government perhaps hope . that be potentially why we hear talk about the 150 judge yesterday , which cause I some alarm . in some respect , why be some of we on the government Benches so cynical ? why do some of we have so many concern that this Bill may not work in the way we hope ? it be experience , and the fact that we have vote for two Bills before — the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 and the Illegal Migration Act 2023 — that we hope would work comprehensively but have not do so . it be right that the Government highlight the reduction in small boat crossing by a third , but it be nowhere near enough . we will not be thank by the people of this country for not smash those crossing comprehensively . will my hon . friend give way ? I will not be give way . I will be support amendment 11 in relation to the Human Rights Act . I will also support the amendment of my right hon . friend the Member for Newark on the echr . I remember vividly the situation in June 2022 . I also remember the referendum we have in 2016 , where the majority of people in this country vote to leave the European Union . they do so because they want the Parliament of this country to be fully sovereign ; they do not want it to be frustrate by foreign organisation , whether the EU or the ECHR . the way in which that happen in June 2022 , to a policy that have majority support from most of the people in this country , be devastating . more generally , it be important that we respect the discussion on Second Reading , when the Prime Minister say that he want sound international legal argument for amendment . that bar have be meet , and my right hon . friend the Member for Newark have explain how that be the case . fundamentally , I have regretfully come to the conclusion as a Member of Parliament that we should leave the echr . my prediction be that , in time , we will . many of the debate associate with the ECHR be similar to the debate around Brexit . those who originally want to leave the EU be brand extremist and a minority . the same argument be make , such as , " let ' s reform it from the inside . " we will try that again with the ECHR , and I think we will be unsuccessful . it be the supranational nature of the echr that I be deeply uncomfortable with . we have already see how that operate . some member have make the point that it be not a foreign court because we have ownership of it . People make the same argument about the European Union , and the MEPs go to Brussels . ultimately , when it come to that decisive referendum , most people who vote on that question disagree with that view and we rightly leave the EU . it be not right and the issue of the ECHR open up a serious democratic deficit , give that we leave the EU . the principle for why we do be live in this debate today , and we must listen . on the issue of illegal migration , like on the issue of net legal migration , we be play with fire . the level of frustration feel by million of people in the country be extreme , and the warning be there from across of the world about what happen if mainstream party do not deal with people ' s legitimate concern about mass migration . if the conservative party do not responsibly and robustly deal with it and finally stop the boat , the warning sign be there for what might happen . just to take my hon . friend ' s point , with which I completely agree , even far , do he agree that the fact that often be not mention be that we be a small island with a huge population and an entire infrastructure create in the 19th century ? for all these reason we have that much more pressure on our social service , our infrastructure , our planning and so forth . my hon . friend be absolutely right . there be intolerable pressure be place on this country through mass legal migration and illegal migration . it be right that more and more of my constituent be see the link between that issue and pressure on public service , strain on social cohesion and other thing . immigration at sustainable level with integration be a force for good . immigration at unsustainable level without integration cause intolerable trouble for the people of this country . that be something they want to guard against . that view be hold not just by my hon . friend , by many in the House and by many in the country , but by many country in Europe . mass migration be now see as an issue of salience by country right across Europe and the wide world . he be far from alone : he be speak for the people . we have hear lot of argument about the echr and about Winston Churchill form it . that have be defeat time and again but continue to be wheel out by Opposition Members . I do not agree . I do not think for a moment that if Winston Churchill be alive today , he would be comfortable with the way in which today ' s ECHR operate and its supranational nature . ultimately , I applaud the Prime Minister ' s desire to stop the boat , but it be not enough just to try , and it be not enough to be just 80 % or 90 % of the way there . we need to be 100 % of the way there . we have see previously that any chink in the armour of any Bill design to tackle this issue will be ruthlessly exploit . we share the Prime Minister ' s desire and we want to work with he to get a Bill that we can all unite behind to stop the boat . immigration be not just an important issue . I honestly believe that it have become an existential issue . ultimately , it be important that we unite behind the Bill , but it need to work . the question be : do we think that the Bill will work or not ? do we think it can be strengthen ? for all those reason , I will vote for the amendment table by my right hon . friend the Member for Newark with a certain degree of pride . I believe in the sovereignty of this country , I believe in listen to the people of this country , and I believe in narrow the unhealthy disconnect there be between the view of the majority of people on immigration and where we be at the moment . I be sorry to have get to the debate a bit late . I will talk in general about some of the amendment ; I be sympathetic to a lot of they . I always listen to my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , who be always eloquent on this subject and probably right in what he say , but I will explain why , despite my concern about the echr , I will not support his amendment and the other amendment . that be because we be deal with the art of the possible as well as the art of what be right and wrong . I listen to my hon . friend the Member for Ipswich ( Tom Hunt ) talk in apocalyptic term , but he be right to say that there be a great deal of angst and concern . accord to the recent poll , in my patch , like in his , more than 50 % want people send back without a right of appeal . I be therefore sympathetic towards that argument . I be also sympathetic to the concern of my right hon . friend the Member for Newark that the system will not work . but we be deal with the art of the possible , and when my hon . friend the Member for Ipswich say that we need 100 % certainty and not 80 % or 90 % , I get a bit concerned . do my hon . friend recognise that we should be focus on the practicality of what be achievable and recognise the tension , in a broad debate , between what we can legislate for and what in reality will work within the limitation and the context , be that in respect of the court or colleague in this place , as well as what will work for Rwanda ? absolutely . if the Rwandans turn round and say , " we ' ve change our mind , " we will be in a world of pain . I trust the Government . I think they have be naive in the past , but for Government Members to work on the basis that we will not trust our own Government and give they zero credit be go way too far in the other direction . my hon . friend be make a series of important point . do he agree that one of the reason why our constituent be concerned to see the Bill pass be the enormous impact that very high level of migration have have on local government finance ? give that he represent an island — one of the 31 local authority in the south - east of England that volunteer to be asylum dispersal area — do he agree that other part of the country might do well to step up to the plate , too ? my hon . friend make a good point . other part of the country would do well to step up to the plate — I thank he for that comment . return to what my hon . friend the Member for Ipswich say about an 80 % or 90 % solution versus a 100 % solution , as far as I can see there be four outcome for today , which I want to discuss in brief detail . first , the Bill work in a wonderful way and everything be perfect . do I think that be likely ? I hope it be ; I live in hope , but I share my hon . friend ' s concern . turn around and face the Committee ! I be so sorry , I thank the hon . Lady . option 2 be that some of the legal appeal work and some do not , but we begin to get the plane move , sort of , this summer . that be a reasonable success , and we be head in the right direction with other measure . option 3 be that it do not work . we get some brownie point for try , but it be a bad outcome . option 4 be that we vote down the Bill today , there be no flight at all , the left be in clover and the liberal elite be smile all the way to the next election . a hundred colleague on the Government Benches will return , and there will be no one to challenge wake or large - scale illegal immigration whatsoever . what will make the liberal elite the happy will be to see the Bill strangle in the court because of its weakness . what do my hon . friend think about the amendment table by my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , who perhaps know this issue well than anyone else ? my hon . friend make a point about the happiness of the liberal elite , but he be give a subjective opinion about what he think they would love . actually , what they would love most of all be for the Bill to die tonight . we must get the Bill through to give we any form of chance . as I say , there be four option . option 1 : it work perfectly — it may not . option 2 : it be likely to work in part — we can live with that . option 3 : it fail — that be bad , but we be try . option 4 : we kill the Bill tonight — we can all go and look for new job . that be what we be face . I want to see my hon . friend and many other return , but we need to give people the good chance of deliver on the Bill . the good chance of that be to try to push the Government in a conservative direction — I give my hon . friend that — but only as far as they can go . I be on the same side of the argument as my hon . friend on this , but my difference be that I will give the Government the benefit of the doubt to get the Bill through Third Reading . we have to get the Bill through . even if my hon . friend do not vote against it but be willing to abstain , that will be an improvement . be it not important to note that if the Bill be kill off on Third Reading , there be no opportunity to introduce another Bill to address this issue in this Parliament ? we will be stick in the current situation go into the election . I thank my hon . friend for that important point . in the WhatsApp group in which we be chat about this early , one of our north - east colleague post the idea that we could have a new Bill . I find that to be truly live in la - la land . the idea that everyone on the Government Benches would agree to a new Bill once we have kill this Bill be for the bird . it be this Bill or no Bill . it be this Bill or no chance . we have to face reality . my hon . friend the Member for Ipswich speak eloquently about the ECHR , and I want to touch on it because it be important . I be not a fan of it . our freedom and our liberty be not because of the echr . they be not because a bulgarian judge get out of bed at two in the morning to strike down democratically elect law . there be nobody in this House as willing as I to rewrite our relationship with the ECHR , but this Bill be not the time to do it . this be an argument for our manifesto . but if my hon . friend be to suggest that what we need to do be make the ECHR advisory so that we fundamentally change our relationship and a vote in Parliament can overrule the echr , he will find no big champion than I . in the same way , we could look to review the Human Rights Act . I be as bored as he of hear Ministers say in private , " we can ' t do this , because of the Human Rights Act . " I pull my hair out . we be in Government . we should change the Human Rights Act if we do not like it . we should not use it as an excuse for inaction . I thank my hon . friend for give way . I be listen to his point with interest . as one who could be see as one of the architect of the Rwanda scheme , along with my hon . friend the Member for Corby ( Tom Pursglove ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , I would have prefer to see the Bill with the amendment from my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) and I agree with many of the point make by my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) . but while I would prefer the Bill to go far , it be a Bill that could still work . I agree and I thank my hon . friend for his comment . if there be a chance of it move far , then yes , but I do not think there be . the issue be : it be this Bill or no Bill ; it be this Bill or no chance . to return to what my hon . friend the Member for Ipswich ( Tom Hunt ) be say about the echr , yes I accept and I agree , so let we reorient our relationship with the ECHR . let we reorient our relationship with these european law . let we look again . I do not like judicial activism any more than anyone else on the conservative Benches . judicial activism be the enemy of democratic accountability if we have foreign judge who be willing to get up in the middle of the night and overrule law pass in this House , by this democratic body answerable and sovereign to the british people . so , let we talk about change the echr , but we should not be do it now . on precisely that point , be there not a far practical addition to my hon . friend ' s argument , which be that override the ECHR in this instance , as oppose to follow a broad debate , may lead to the rwandan side be less enthusiastic and pull out of the deal , practically send we back to square one ? I thank my right hon . friend for that intervention . it be good to see he . on rule 39 , the pyjama injunction , where judge get out of bed in the middle of the night , I do not even know why our Government be still agree to abide by these rule . as far as I can see , it should be a matter of principle that rule 39 injunction be advisory until such time as we wish to adopt they . maybe the Minister have something he would like to tell we about that . it would be wonderful if he do . as part of the conversation , we be in a period of flux . as our electorate rightly become more concerned about issue relate to crime , sovereignty , and legal and illegal immigration , we start to talk about our relationship with the european human right convention . I be up for that , but now be not necessarily the time to do that . my hon . friend be make an extremely important point . before he move on to the last part of his speech , I want to press he a little far on the echr , as well as the comment make by my hon . friend the Member for Ipswich ( Tom Hunt ) . do he recognise that some of the fundamental change in the amendment be so great that they warrant a separate piece of legislation even if they be to come forward , so that this House could consider they in full and in detail , rather than they be attach to an extremely important Bill , where they could undermine its objective as well as detract from the wide debate on the echr ? I quite agree . I think that we be in danger of reverse - engineer a load of opinion on the european convention on human right into a single Bill that be influence by the ECHR , but be fundamentally about something else . I should like to see great debate about the ECHR . I should like to see great debate about the relationship between our law and what we do about international convention , be mindful and respectful of they while at the same time understand — certainly this be my view — that our freedom , our privilege and our right as briton do not come from post - war european document . we should remember where the ECHR come from . it be effectively write in part by ourselves to help Europe to recover from the appalling destruction cause by fascism , but also the threat of totalitarian socialism and totalitarian communism . since then , we have see what be a good document — partly because it be write by we — whose purpose be to help Europe to recover and get its legal and political dignity back become a target of politicised judicial activism . I believe that something that be a target of politicised judicial activism should not necessarily be overrule our own tradition , but I do find a tendency for that to happen . my hon . friend be , once again , make some powerful point . do he recognise that the number of interim measure that be hand down in respect of the UK be extremely small ? in fact , in some year no such interim measure be grant . none the less , we need to review the way in which measure that be not specifically describe in the original document that underpin the european convention on human right have evolve . it be therefore right that although it remain entirely non - bind and how to respond to those measure remain a decision for a Government Minister , we need to ensure that our court and our system understand the role that Parliament expect they to play . my hon . friend have make a valuable point , and one that I be about to come on to . why do some people in this country and some political group , generally on the left , idealise international court as if they be font of olympian wisdom when , in my view , many of their judgment be highly political and highly tendentious ? they seem to I to constitute an exercise in study disrespect for the english common law , which I consider to be one of the great wonder of human civilisation and achievement , along with monotheism and one or two other thing . we seem to be allow the international court to overrule those extraordinary achievement — all these great judge from on high , who do not come from traditional judicial system anywhere near as strong or as noble as ours . I have be agree with the basic thrust that it be the Bill or nothing , but may I gently say something to my hon . friend about the European Court of Human Rights ? if he look carefully at its case law , he will see that british common law tradition have , in fact , have a significant impact on the jurisprudence of that Court . it do not follow the pure civil law system of the continent , as those who have serve on the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe will know . it have actually move to a hybrid system , largely because of the influence of british jurist . my hon . friend have make an excellent point . he be , of course , an eminent lawyer , and I , frankly be not . [ hon . member : " there be still time ! " ] I be tempt to say , " I will stop dig . " my hon . friend be right in say that we have have an influence , but I understand from what I have see and read that there have also be the influence of a far more rationalist system on our own common law , and I do not consider the impact on EU law and casework on our system to have be entirely beneficial and entirely helpful . I be glad that my hon . friend be make this point . I do not blame he because it be easy to elide the two now , but EU law and the operation of the Luxembourg Court be a very different discipline from what happen in Strasbourg . that Court be enjoin to interpret EU law , and what it say be gospel and we have to follow it . that be not the case with the Strasbourg Court . my hon . friend have talk about case law . I will not put he on the spot too much , but can he name the case that have pose a problem ? where be they ? I can help my hon . friend . the judgment in the Hirst case , the prisoner voting case , be pretty poor . in fact , it be a bad judgment . then there be the judgment about whole - life sentence , which we sort out in the Court of Appeal : problem solve . the Abu Qatada case be a long saga , but we sort that out too . those be the only three problem we have have in 10 year , and that do not amount to a hill of bean . I be delighted that my right hon . and learn Friend have intervene , because those be exactly the three point that I be about to make to complete my case . I thank he for do that for I . I accept the point that he make , but I also accept that we be a sovereign Parliament and that our relationship with many of these institution have change . I do not think our relationship necessarily reflect that change . I will leave it at that , but I accept his point and also the wisdom with which he make it . at this point , unless I have any more intervention , I shall wind up . rise — order . just before we proceed and I call Jerome Mayhew , can I gently say that it have not escape the notice of the Chair that a significant number of member have wander in , after many hour of debate during which they have not be here , and then seek to participate ? technically , the Chair have no power to control that , but member must understand that we deprecate this . I take a very dim view of it as bad manner . I hope that be clearly understand . the hon . member for Ipswich ( Tom Hunt ) sit in his place for five hour wait to speak . I believe that any other member who wish to speak in a debate should afford the Committee the same courtesy . thank you , Sir Roger . I should start my speech with a personal apology for not have be here for the full course of this debate . I very much want to be here , but I have duty in Westminster Hall in two debate during the course of the afternoon which prevent I from take a full role in this debate . I be grateful to you for nevertheless agree to call I in what be obviously a very important debate . I have hear sufficient of the back and forth of the debate to know that there have be criticism from the Opposition Benches that the Bill go too far , and that there be even some word of advice and criticism on these Benches that it perhaps do not go far enough . before I get down into the nitty - gritty of the amendment , it be worth go back to base principle and look at the fundamental of why the Bill be necessary in the first place . it be without doubt that every member of this House , irrespective of their party loyalty , must agree that the current position in relation to small boat cross the channel be deeply wrong and have to be address . what be happen at the moment be just not fair . we have see the small boat programme on our television screen for the last two or three year , ever since we plug the last gap in our external border by make it hard for illegal immigrant to get on to lorry or on to the Eurostar — that go back almost a decade , in fact . the business model be such that where we restrict one point of illegal access , the model will seek out the next weak point in the border of our country , and right now that be small boat cross the channel . however , these be not individual buy dinghy and set off across the channel . we all know that this be a massive commercial opportunity for organise criminal gang make masse of money — ten of million of pound — from the misery of other . that money be go into organised crime , which then find a vent in other crime , both in Europe and in our own country . criminal gang be impose violence on the vulnerable people who be then exploit by they in their crossing of the channel . it must be right that any responsible Government would take step to challenge a set of circumstance where vulnerable people be be expose to risk and violence , not only the risk of death as they cross the channel — my hon . friend the Member for Don Valley ( Nick Fletcher ) say that there be five death just last week as a result of this dangerous process — but the violence of the criminal gang impose their will on these migrant . do the hon . Gentleman not agree that the massive amount of money waste on the Rwanda plan would be well spend on create safe , legal route and clear the backlog so that those flee persecution can build a well life in a country that be proud of its humanitarian action , as so many have in Ealing , Southall ? I be grateful for the hon . Gentleman ' s intervention , which allow I to highlight the Government ' s success in reduce the backlog , as the Prime Minister outline at Prime Minister ' s question . I do not shy away from the point that the Rwanda scheme be expensive . if the cost be calculate as the amount spend per person fly to Rwanda , it would be a very high cost indeed , but that be not the point of the scheme . the idea of the scheme be not that every single person who illegally cross our border will be ship to Rwanda but that it will act as an effective deterrent . if we send a few people to Rwanda , the criminal gang and , more importantly , the people who pay they large sum of money will get the message that pay the criminal gang to be ferry across the channel be no long an effective way to gain access to the United Kingdom . if that be successful , as I believe it will be , it will be very sound use of money because it will not only prevent additional cost to our society and public service but will protect the life of some of the most vulnerable people in the world , while right a gross unfairness in our asylum system . my hon . friend be make an extremely important point , particularly on the cost . be he aware that the President of Rwanda have be report as say that the UK could well be refund if all the resource be not use because of challenge along the way ? I be not aware of that , but it add grist to the mill and strength to the Government ' s argument for proceed with the Rwanda policy . my hon . friend take an intervention from the hon . member for Ealing , Southall ( Mr Sharma ) , who talk about safe and legal route . one of the big problem be that we have not hear how many , where from and what they would look like . there be supposedly 100 million displace people across the world . if 1 % of they decide to come to the UK , that is 1 million people who have to be process and find a country . this be a worldwide problem . if we do it as an individual country , we would create and facilitate a problem not only on our shore but on the shore where we open those centre . do he believe the opposition have a plan for where the centre would be , how they would be man , how much they would cost and what those safe and legal route would look like , especially when people be leave the safe country of France ? the phrase " safe and legal route " feel right , doesn ' t it ? it feel like we should be in favour of safe and legal route and , speak personally , I think they be part of a wide solution to immigration . my hon . friend say there may be up to 100 million people currently seek asylum . from memory , I think the figure from the United Nations report be actually 108 million . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . this Bill be deal with a lot of the pull factor ; at least , it mention or imply approach those in a more constructive and positive way . I know that he serve on the Council of Europe delegation . on the push factor , do he agree that this domestic policy should not be disaggregate from foreign policy and our overseas aid policy ? let we look at the example of sub - Saharan Africa or the Sahel , where the French have recently exit , or be about to do so , and where the UK have an important counter - terrorism presence . in those place , fragile state that be become fail state be cause more push factor . in addition , some adversary of this country , such as Russia , through its proxy in Africa , be try to disrupt democratically elect government in order to create a migration crisis ; they be happy to see people come up through north Africa and into Europe . give his international experience , do he agree that we have to have a more holistic view of this policy in the context of global foreign policy ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend for those excellent point . they highlight one reason why the merging of the Department for International Development with the Foreign and Commonwealth Office to form the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office have the potential to link those two area of policy . the challenge with push factor be substantial and it be that they have only just start . he be right to refer to malign actor such as Russia in the short and medium term , but there be a much big factor that this House need to consider over the next 20 to 50 year : climate change . the likelihood be that there will be very significant mass migration from sub - Saharan Africa when large area of country , perhaps entire country , may become functionally uninhabitable through water scarcity and heat . what we have see currently in push factor will be nothing compare with what we see in the future , so it behove we , as a responsible government , to design and implement an immigration policy that be fit for purpose , not just for now , but for the future . I find it frustrating when people , especially Opposition Members , talk about the need for safe and legal route . as a statement of fact , there be 10 such route into the UK in the past decade — there be currently nine — which have be responsible for 50 , 000 refugee come to this country since 2015 . overall , the number of refugee or people grant asylum in this country from 2015 - 16 be approach the population of Manchester ; we be talk about a number in the upper 400 , 000s — that be twice the size of the city of Portsmouth . when Opposition member talk about the need for safe and legal route , I assume that none of they have any clue what they be talk about ; would my hon . friend care to comment ? I be pretty settle with that last sentence . we have be a place of safety for about 80 , 000 from Ukraine ; we have open our arm to some 250 , 000 british national of Hong Kong descent ; we have have the Syria programme , which I believe involve about 20 , 000 ; and we have have the afghan resettlement programme , which involve about 18 , 000 to 20 , 000 . all those have be safe and legal route . the big difference be that the British Government , represent the british people , decide that those be the people we want to help . they be the most vulnerable , and we take the decision , not criminal gang from abroad . it be exactly that : the british people decide . do my hon . friend believe that the right approach be for Government to consult with local authority on how many asylum seeker and refugee they can support , enable they to come up with a number that Parliament will be able to vote on ? that be pragmatic and practical while warm and welcome to those who need help . my hon . friend make another good point . we must not forget that our asylum policy depend on the support and acceptance of our people . if we have a policy that be reject by people because they feel it be unfair and do not represent their view , then we run the risk of throw the baby of asylum and welcome people with vulnerability from around the world out with the bath water . the Bill help to maintain a welcome stance to asylum seeker who be decide on by the Government , while maintain public support for the policy as a whole . rise — as the author of the safe and legal route amendment to the Illegal Migration Bill , I will shed a little light on this matter . my hon . friend be right that we have generous safe and legal route scheme already , but they be mostly limit to set group of people . the importance of the scheme the Government be work on be that those people who be genuine asylum seeker and genuinely flee persecution can be accommodate in some way , but those scheme would be subject to a cap . although there be hundred of thousand — million — who might want to come here , the Illegal Migration Act set a cap for safe and legal route so that it be the number of people we can cope with and they be the right people . we will take in the most vulnerable people , separate they out from the people who have no credible case for come to the United Kingdom , which be why the Bill be so important . I be in accord with every point my hon . Friend make . there be real anger on the doorstep . I be lucky to represent the seat of Broadland and Fakenham in Norfolk , and I be knock on door just before Christmas . of the 100 or so door I knock on , I have 20 decent conversation with constituent . this be rural Norfolk , but 19 of those 20 conversation raise illegal migration as a key issue — that be the reality of the view of the people I represent . we would be mad in this House if we do not accurately reflect those view . I will take a final intervention . will my hon . friend join I in pay tribute to the East of England Local Government Association and the East of England Strategic Migration Partnership ? they have do amazing work support the resettlement of british passport holder from Hong Kong , Syrians come through the syrian resettlement scheme and Ukrainians come through the Homes for Ukraine scheme . do he agree that it would be more acceptable to his constituent to hear that those individual have come to the UK through arrangement agree with local authority that have the capacity to support they , rather than , as I witness when I visit the Jungle camp in Calais , through rich smuggler , who say to people that the more they can pay , the more likely they be to be able to break into the UK through a backdoor ? my hon . friend be exactly right . my constituent be generous minded and welcoming , but they do not like inherent unfairness . typically , those who arrive be young man age 20 to 40 . where be the woman and child ? those young man be relatively rich because they have be able to pay £ 3 , 000 to £ 5 , 000 to the smuggler . worse still , they may be indenture and end up in slave labour , try to pay back a debt that will never be repay . we have a terrible situation that need to be address . the Government have take effective action that we can see in hard datum from last year , not just because I say it . at a time when migration to the European Union be go up by about a third and to Mediterranean country by fully 80 % last year , the suite of intervention that the Government have already make have be so effective that they have reduce migration in this country by 36 % , which be over a third . that be not because of Rwanda , but in addition to Rwanda . it be because we have increase french patrol on the coast by 40 % and we have track down boat supply in place like Romania , remove the ability of the gang to physically get people across the channel . we have increase raid on illegal workplace , which be part of the pull factor for illegal migrant . more importantly , we have cut a deal with Albania , which have mean that , whereas the year before about 20 , 000 people who come from Albania claim asylum , with the return policy recognise that Albania be a safe country — just as Rwanda be , by the way — the number of potential migrant come across the channel have decrease by more than 90 % . if we want an example of why the Rwanda policy should work , we need only look at Albania and at the result that this Government have already achieve . I commend the Government for their hard work , the hard yard , and the incremental gain , which show that , although we be not all the way there , we be see 36 % reduction already and count . our proposal in this Bill for the Rwanda relocation will make an enormous difference . we have hear from Government lawyer that the current process be likely to reduce the number of appeal by 99 . 5 % . yes , there may be the odd one who continue to appeal , but that last - minute process of repeat appeal will be remove . that be why I do not feel the necessity to support the amendment and will be support the Government . with your permission Sir Roger , may I on behalf of his Majesty ' s Government pass on my sincere condolence to the family and friend of Sir Tony Lloyd , the former Member of Parliament — Order . I be sorry to have to interrupt on such a sensitive issue , but Mr Speaker intend to make a statement about that later . I be very grateful for that guidance . may I start by turn to those who have contribute to this debate ? I thank my hon . friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) for his powerful point , challenge , forensic and learn point . he once again question what solution be be offer by the Labour party , and he be right to do so . Answer come there none . may I thank my right hon . friend the Member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) ? as so often , he debate in poetry , and I will come back to some of his remark in due course . I also thank the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee , the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) . she be right to ensure that she do not make a second read speech , but she do mention one or two amendment and other matter , and I shall turn to those in due course . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) . he be always thoughtful , measure and so often right , and I be grateful to he for his contribution and also for his intervention during the latter stage of this debate . the hon . member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) cite Robert Burns and ask what he would have to say to those on the conservative Benches . my hon . friend and neighbour , the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) , rather cheekily from a sedentary position suggest that Robert Burns might say to Conservative Members , " how can I join you ? " that be not the gist or the thrust of her speech , but it be a cheeky intervention that I enjoy none the less . I shall turn to her amendment in due course . I listen to my hon . friend the Member for Don Valley ( Nick Fletcher ) , as I always do , and I hope to be able to turn to some of the point that he make and hopefully allay some of his fear . he say sometimes the Chamber empty , or be not as full , when he speak . that sometimes happen to Ministers as well — that not everyone be back when they be respond to member ' contribution . but my hon . friend be here , and I be grateful to he for sit through so much of this debate and for his characteristic courtesy . my hon . friend the Member for Ipswich ( Tom Hunt ) speak with passion , as he always do , and I be grateful to he for his contribution . my hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight ( Bob Seely ) speak at some length , and I be grateful to he for that . he delve into the principle of the echr , and he be entice by my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) to make some pronouncement on some of its judgement , which I think be a little mean . none the less , my right hon . and learn Friend do proffer one suggestion , namely the case of Hirst , and I be grateful to he for that . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Broadland ( Jerome Mayhew ) for his intervention and for be on duty not only in Westminster Hall , but also here in this Chamber . the course of the debate have be constructive , on the whole . I agree that it have be broadly thoughtful and instructive . we have have exchange on scripture , and as a lawyer , it be a joy indeed to hear the word " otiose " not once or twice , but several time . we once even hear " otiose with bell on " from my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , and I be grateful to he for that . I have not hear that expression before ; it must be a legal reference that I brush past in my youth . we also hear about box set from my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) and the hon . member for Glasgow North ( Patrick Grady ) , and I will need to do a bit more research on that . we touch on echr membership , although my right hon . friend the Member for Newark rightly say that this be not the place to have that full debate , but he set out some of the parameter for future debate that I be sure we will have . clause 1 set out the rationale for the Bill . it set out the legal obligation and how the treaty to which the Government of Rwanda have agree address the concern that be set out by the Supreme Court . amendment 39 , 40 , 41 and 42 , table and address today by the hon . member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) , and amendment 43 and 44 , table by the hon . member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) , seek to exclude the core of those provision . the hon . member for Glasgow Central be clear about her intention in that regard . the treaty be bind in international law and , in accordance with rwandan law , will become domestic law in Rwanda on ratification . that be set out in detail and confirm in article 3 ( 6 ) of the treaty . it rule out anyone relocate to Rwanda be remove from there , except to the United Kingdom . that be an important part of the treaty , set out in article 10 ( 3 ) , and that be regardless of whether the individual be find to be a refugee or to have another humanitarian protection need . that remove the risk of refoulement . everyone relocate to Rwanda will receive the same treatment . those with refugee status , those with a humanitarian protection need and even those without that status will be able to stay in Rwanda and will receive the same right and treatment . that address head on the concern that the Supreme Court set out . the asylum decision - make process be be significantly reform . Annex B of the treaty — if I have time , I might turn to the detail of that — contain strengthen monitor arrangement , and there be also strengthen monitor arrangement to ensure adherence to the obligation . I be grateful to my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) for his engagement . I do not believe that his concern be right . he say " offensive or otiose " . I would suggest that neither be right , and I hope to be able to reassure he , because clause 1 make clear that Parliament be sovereign and that its act be valid notwithstanding any interpretation of international law . I will come back to that " notwithstanding " terminology , which have be so contentious , perhaps , in recent history . what it do not mean be that we be legislate away our international obligation . the purpose of the Bill be to say that , on the basis of the treaty and the evidence before it , Parliament believe that those obligation have be meet . it do not mean that we do not care whether they have be meet . he mention dualism and be right to do so . the part of the clause to which my right hon . and learn Friend ' s amendment be direct do no more than make clear what we mean by a safe country , which be a key definition apply to Rwanda , namely that the United Kingdom can remove people to that country in compliance with its international obligation and that Rwanda will not remove anyone in breach of any international law . as a former Attorney General , he also mention the Law Officers convention . I be grateful to he for that , for so often in this Chamber it go unnoticed . it be an important convention , and as a former Law Officer myself I abide by it very strictly , as I know he do , so I be grateful to he for remind the House of it . turn to the amendment table by and the speech of my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon , I be grateful for his contribution not just today but yesterday . it be important that the will of Parliament be make clear and that , follow the mammoth effort between our Government and the Government of Rwanda , the obligation that we have agree be fully set out . clause 1 ensure that it be crystal clear that it be Parliament that have consider and conclude that Rwanda be a safe country . I know his concern about this sort of clause , but he will know that it be not unique and that it be not dissimilar to clause 1 of the Illegal Migration Act — [ interruption . ] I suspect he be encourage I not to pray that in aid , but it be a fact all the same that it be not unprecedented to have a clause such as clause 1 in a Bill . I turn to clause 3 . the United Kingdom have a long - stand tradition of ensure that right and liberty be protect domestically and of fulfil our international human right obligation . we remain committed to that position and will ensure that our law continue to be fit for purpose and work for the people of the United Kingdom . though some of the provision in the Bill be novel , the Government be satisfied that the Bill can be implement in line with the convention right . however , it have become clear that people will seek to frustrate their removal by any mean . therefore , this Bill go far than the Illegal Migration Act , which be take through by my right hon . friend the Member for Newark and my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Fareham ( Suella Braverman ) . as we have hear , that Act only disapplie section 3 of the Human Rights Act , whereas this Bill , and particularly clause 3 , disapplie further element of the Act . the effect be that the duty under section 6 ( 1 ) of the Human Rights Act be disapplie for any public authority , include any court or tribunal , that be take a decision base on the duty under clause 2 of the Bill to treat the Republic of Rwanda as safe . I turn now directly to the amendment table by my right hon . friend the Member for Newark , start with his amendment 11 and 18 . he be right that the Bill do not seek to disapply section 4 of the Human Rights Act ; it do not , in fact , disapply the declaration of incompatibility provision in section 4 . that be the only substantive remedy against the conclusive presumption that Rwanda be safe . retain declaration of incompatibility be important , but of course the final say on this matter will rightly remain with Parliament and with the Government because of section 4 ( 6 ) of the Human Rights Act , which make it clear that a declaration can not affect the operation or the validity of domestic legislation . my hon . and learn Friend make an important point about the extent to which the court should and can intervene on issue relate to the compatibility of primary legislation with the echr . the section 4 procedure allow the court to express a view , but do not trespass directly upon the function of this place in deal with the problem . it simply give Parliament an opportunity to rectify any situation — or not , frankly . do he agree that section 4 be a much well mechanism for the court to use than the clunky , inelegant and sometimes very problematic section 3 procedure ? I hear what my right hon . and learn Friend say about section 3 and I agree with he wholeheartedly . he be right to describe it as clunky , and it have be disapplie in this Bill as well as in the Illegal Migration Act . if I may say so directly to my right hon . friend the Member for Newark , I accept entirely his comment that he be here to help the Government and that he believe passionately in this policy . he have have several very frank , open and honest conversation with I about that , both in this Chamber and outside it , and I be grateful to he for put his point so ably and so clearly , but the disapplication of those section within the Bill significantly reduce the extent to which public authority be bind to act as a consequence of the convention right . may I turn to clause 5 and the further amendment table by my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ? clause 5 make it clear that it be for a Minister of the Crown alone to determine whether to comply with an interim measure of the Strasbourg Court . it also make it clear that the domestic court may not have regard to the existence of any interim measure when consider any domestic application flow from a decision to remove a person to Rwanda in accordance with the treaty . what happen with the Rwanda flight in June 2022 be frustrating , as many member have mention — it be a deeply flawed process and raise issue of natural justice — but change have be make since then , not least in the Illegal Migration Act . on 13 November , the Strasbourg Court announce the outcome of its review of the rule concern interim measure . the change include the naming of judge , interim measure be communicate as formal decision , and the confirmation of the exist practice of party be able to request the reconsideration of a decision in the rule . the United Kingdom have respond formally to the Court ' s consultation . colleague have raise concern that , assume the Bill pass and succeed in close down the vast majority of individual claim , our deterrent will be frustrate by a rule 39 interim measure . I say directly to my right hon . and hon . friend that I understand those concern . no one who be here in June 2022 and see the last Rwanda plane leave on the tarmac can fail to understand the importance of fix this issue . that be why the Prime Minister have be clear that he will not let a foreign court block the flight . we simply can not let an international court dictate our border security and stop we establish a deterrent . that be why we have insert clause 5 , which be crystal clear that it be for Ministers , and Ministers alone , to decide whether to comply with rule 39 injunction . we would not have insert clause 5 if we be not prepared to use it . I confirm to the Committee that we can and will lawfully use that power if the circumstance arise . the discretion be there . we go far still and we confirm that the civil service must implement any such decision . today , the permanent secretary for the Home Office have confirm that if we receive a rule 39 indication , instead of defer removal immediately , as be currently the practice , official will refer the rule 39 to the Minister — not to be too grandiose but , in this case , to I — for an immediate decision . as the Cabinet Office have confirm , it be the responsibility of civil servant , under the civil service code , to deliver that decision . colleague have confirmation that we have the power , we would use the power , and the civil service will give effect to it . if a plane be sit on that runway , this Government will not stop until it take off . we all know what the opposition would do : they would campaign for it to be ground . the Minister just say that there will be circumstance in which we will ignore pyjama injunction . what be the circumstance in which the Government will not ignore they and will therefore comply with they ? I could not have be clear . there be the confirmation that we have the power , we would use the power , and the civil service will give effect to it . let I respond directly to my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Fareham ? she speak powerfully , as she always do , and I always listen carefully to what she say . she set out a number of case in which medical reason be cite in court . medical argument be present that , as she say , frustrate the will of this place . in fact , section 39 of the Illegal Migration Act — the very Act that she take through this place with my right hon . friend the Member for Newark — address that exact point about medical record and medical evidence . the follow be example of harm that do not constitute serious and irreversible harm . the first be : " where the standard of healthcare available to " the person " in the relevant country … be low than " that available in the United Kingdom . it be there in the statute , in the Bill that we pass last year . the second example be : " any pain or distress result from a medical treatment that be available to " a person " in the United Kingdom not be available to " a person " in the relevant country " . that be not , do not and will not constitute serious and irreversible harm . my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Fareham be right to be concern about that , but those concern have be address and meet in the legislation we have pass , and in the legislation that be mirror in the Bill . let I turn to the important provision of clause 8 . I will directly address the hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) and his submission in response to new clause 3 . nothing in the Windsor framework , include article 2 , or in the withdrawal agreement affect the Bill ' s proper operation on a UK - wide basis . any suggestion to the contrary would be to imply that the scope of the right , safeguard and equality of opportunity chapter of the Belfast / Good Friday agreement be far more expansive than be ever intend . will the Minister give way ? I will not give way . we be unequivocal that that be simply not the case , and article 2 of the Windsor framework be not engaged . I would be happy to write far to the hon . member for Belfast East and the right hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) on that point to set out further detail . I hope I can reassure the hon . member that we have already achieve the aim he seek . will my hon . and learn Friend give way ? I will give way , but my hon . friend must be conscious that we be up against a very tight deadline . on the statement he make with regard to rule 39 and so forth , can my hon . and learn Friend explain to the Committee how the Government would be able to prevent a judicial review of the decision take by the Minister without legislation ? my hon . friend have hear what I say on that point . I respect and admire he ; he know the esteem that I have for he . we have a good - faith disagreement on the effect of clause 5 , but the clause be clear : it be for a Minister to decide , and a Minister will decide . will the Minister give way ? may I finish my point in response to the hon . member for Belfast East ? I hope I can reassure he that we have already achieve the aim he seek . the Bill will apply across the whole of the United Kingdom , in line with the application of our sovereign immigration policy across all four nation of the UK as a territorial whole . I be grateful to the hon . member for his kind and generous comment about I personally , and for his engagement . I will continue to engage with he on this issue . we have make progress towards stop the boat , with small boat crossing down by a third in 2023 , but we must do more . the only way to do so be if it be abundantly clear that illegal entry will never lead to a new life in the United Kingdom . the power of deterrence be prove beyond reasonable doubt by the success of our agreement with Albania . Parliament and the british people want an end to illegal immigration , and we need a deterrent . we have a plan — a plan to stop the boat — and I invite all right hon . and hon . member to back it . amendment 11 have be propose . Mr Jenrick , do you wish to press it to a vote , or do you wish to withdraw it ? with your permission , Sir Roger , I would like to withdraw it . however , if you be agreeable , I wish to press amendment 23 instead . we will come to that in due course . I beg to ask leave to withdraw the amendment . amendment , by leave , withdraw . six hour have elapse since the commencement of proceeding , the proceeding be interrupt ( Programme Order , 12 December 2023 ) . the Chair put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order No . 83d ) . question put , that the clause stand part of the Bill . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Oliver Dowden Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Dominic Raab Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Robert Largan Aaron Bell Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Keir Starmer Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Kirsty Blackman Steven Bonnar the Committee divide : Ayes 339 , Noes 264 . question accordingly agree to . clause 3 order to stand part of the Bill . clause 5 - interim measure of the European Court of Human Rights Amendment propose : 23 , page 5 , line 13 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) and insert — " ( 2A ) the interim measure be not bind on the United Kingdom , and will have no effect on any provision make by or by virtue of this Act or the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , and shall not prevent or delay the removal of a person to Rwanda under this Act or the Illegal Migration Act 2023 . " — ( Robert Jenrick . ) this ensure that the default position be that rule 39 indication be not treat as bind on the United Kingdom and will not prevent removal to Rwanda , but to provide an optional discretion to Ministers . question put , that the amendment be make . Adam Afriyie Lee Anderson Sarah Atherton Scott Benton Jake Berry Bob Blackman Ben Bradley Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Bill Cash Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Simon Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Philip davy Sarah Dines Richard Drax James Duddridge Iain Duncan Smith Natalie Elphicke Michael Fabricant Nicholas Fletcher Mark Francois Chris Green James Grundy Jonathan Gullis John Hayes Darren Henry Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Eddie Hughes Tom Hunt Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson David Jones Danny Kruger Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Marco Longhi Jonathan Lord Craig Mackinlay Karl McCartney Robin Millar Nigel Mills Anne Marie Morris Jill Mortimer Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Ian Paisley Jnr Tom Randall John Redwood Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Gary Sambrook Jim Shannon Greg Smith Henry Smith Jane Stevenson Desmond Swayne Elizabeth Truss Bill Wiggin Sammy Wilson Jacob Rees - Mogg Miriam Cates Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Bim Afolami Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Lucy Allan Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Tonia Antoniazzi Edward Argar Jon Ashworth Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Hannah Bardell Paula Barker John Baron Simon Baynes Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Paul Beresford Clive Betts Saqib Bhatti Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Ben Bradshaw Graham Brady Kevin Brennan Steve Brine Sara Britcliffe Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Chris Bryant Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Rob Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alun Cairns Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Andy Carter James Cartlidge Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Jo Churchill Feryal Clark Greg Clark Theo Clarke Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Ronnie Cowan Geoffrey Cox Neil Coyle Stephen Crabb Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton James Daly Edward Davey Wayne David David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Alex Davies - Jones David Davis Dehenna Davison Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Caroline Dinenage Samantha Dixon Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Michelle Donelan Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Oliver Dowden Jackie Doyle - Price Flick Drummond Rosie Duffield David Duguid Philip Dunne Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Mark Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Ruth Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson George Eustice Chris Evans Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Laura Farris Tim Farron Stephen Farry Simon Fell Marion Fellows Anna Firth Colleen Fletcher Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Vicky Ford Yvonne Fovargue Liam Fox Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Patricia Gibson Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Preet Kaur Gill John Glen Mary Glindon Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Patrick Grady Richard Graham Helen Grant Peter Grant James Gray Chris Grayling damian Green Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Andrew Griffith Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Robert Halfon Luke Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Greg Hands Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Mark Harper Carolyn Harris Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart Helen Hayes Oliver Heald John Healey James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Antony Higginbotham Meg Hillier Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Richard Holden Kate Hollern Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt rupa Huq Imran Hussain Alister Jack Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Sajid Javid Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Diana R . Johnson Gareth Johnson Kim Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Darren Jones Fay Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Marcus Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Simon Jupp Mike Kane Gillian Keegan Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Kate Kniveton Kwasi Kwarteng Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy John Lamont Pauline Latham Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Emma Lewell - Buck Brandon Lewis Clive Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Simon Lightwood David Linden Chris Loder Mark Logan Rebecca Long - Bailey Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Tim Loughton Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Alan Mak Seema Malhotra Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Esther McVey Ian Mearns Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Ed Miliband Maria Miller Amanda Milling Navendu Mishra Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Carol Monaghan Damien Moore Robbie Moore layla Moran Penny Mordaunt Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan David Morris Grahame Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Ian Murray James Murray Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lisa Nandy Bob Neill Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Matthew Offord Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Guy Opperman Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Stephanie Peacock Mike Penning Matthew Pennycook John Penrose Andrew Percy Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Chris Philp Luke Pollard Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Lucy Powell Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Anum Qaisar Jeremy Quin will Quince Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Marie Rimmer Rob Roberts Mary Robinson Matt Rodda Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell Lloyd Russell - Moyle David Rutley Liz Saville - Roberts Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Grant Shapps Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Alec Shelbrooke Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq David Simmonds Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Chloe Smith Jeff Smith Julian Smith Nick Smith Royston Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel Amanda Solloway John Spellar Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Keir Starmer Chris Stephens Andrew Stephenson Jo Stevens John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Gary Streeter Wes Streeting Mel Stride Graham Stringer Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Zarah Sultana Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Robert Syms Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Derek Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Maggie Throup Stephen Timms Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Jon Trickett Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Shailesh Vara Valerie Vaz Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Christian Wakeford Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Nadia Whittome James Wild Craig Williams Hywel Williams Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Mohammad Yasin Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Daniel Zeichner Robert Largan Aaron Bell the Committee divide : Ayes 65 , Noes 536 . question accordingly negative . question put ( single question on successive provision of the Bill ) , that clause 5 to 8 stand part of the Bill . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Oliver Dowden Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Dominic Raab Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Robert Largan Aaron Bell Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Keir Starmer Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Kirsty Blackman Steven Bonnar the Committee divide : Ayes 340 , Noes 263 . question accordingly agree to . clause 5 to 8 order to stand part of the Bill . clause 9 - Commencement and transitional provision Amendment propose : 36 , page 6 , line 39 , after " force " insert " , or the day on which a full economic impact assessment for the bill be publish include any financial memorandum sign between Rwanda and the UK relate to the Rwanda Treaty , whichever be later " . — ( Stephen Kinnock . ) this amendment require the publication of a full impact assessment on the cost involve in removal to Rwanda under the bill , include per - person removal cost and the confidential financial memorandum sign between the two country , in advance of the Bill enter into force . question put , that the amendment be make . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Keir Starmer Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Andrew Western Samantha Dixon Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Oliver Dowden Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Dominic Raab Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Robert Largan Aaron Bell the Committee divide : Ayes 263 , Noes 339 . question accordingly negative . question put ( single question on successive provision of the Bill ) , that clause 9 and 10 stand part of the Bill . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Oliver Dowden Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Dominic Raab Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Scott Mann Mark Fletcher Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Keir Starmer Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Kirsty Blackman Steven Bonnar the Committee divide : Ayes 340 , Noes 264 . question accordingly agree to . clause 9 and 10 order to stand part of the Bill . New Clause 8 - return of Individuals due to Serious Criminal Offences " ( 1 ) a Minister of the Crown must lay a statement before Parliament within 40 day if both of the follow condition be meet — ( a ) the Secretary of State have approve a request from the Republic of Rwanda to return to the UK a person previously relocate under the term of the Rwanda Treaty , ( b ) the person specify in ( a ) have their permission to remain in the Republic of Rwanda revoke owe to the person ' s participation in serious crime . ( 2 ) if Parliament be notify of the condition be meet as set out in section ( 1 ) , — ( a ) a motion must be move by a Minister of the Crown to be debate on the floor of the House of Commons , and ( b ) the motion must require the House to — ( i ) consider the statement lay before Parliament under section ( 1 ) , and ( ii ) consider whether or not as a result of the content of the statement , there should be a suspension of the Rwanda Treaty . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section — " the Rwanda Treaty " mean the agreement between the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of the Republic of Rwanda for the provision of an asylum partnership to strengthen shared international commitment on the protection of refugee and migrant , sign at Kigali on 5 December 2023 ; " Minister of the Crown " have the same meaning as in the Ministers of the Crown Act 1975 . " — ( Stephen Kinnock . ) bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Keir Starmer Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Andrew Western Samantha Dixon Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Oliver Dowden Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Dominic Raab Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Scott Mann Mark Fletcher the Committee divide : Ayes 264 , Noes 338 . question accordingly negative . clause 1 order to stand part of the Bill . the Speaker resume the Chair . Bill report , without amendment ( Standing Order no . 83d ( 6 ) ) . Speaker ' s statement : Sir Tony Lloyd it be with great sorrow that I inform the House of the death of Sir Tony Lloyd . he be a value colleague , who spend his life in public service . he will be remember on all side of the House with respect and affection . I be sure the House will join I in send our sympathy to his family in their loss . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] there will be an opportunity for member to participate in a minute ' s silence tomorrow , and to pay further tribute at a later date . I want to do that . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I know there will be tribute in due course , because many people in this House will want to speak in that session , but I be grateful for this point of order just to say a few word about Tony and this terrible loss this afternoon . we be all deeply sadden at the loss of Tony . I speak to he last Thursday , when he leave hospital for the last time to spend as much time as he could with his family , and be able to pass on to he our thought , our respect and our affection for he and for his commitment , his public service and , frankly , his sheer decency . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] I know that that be feel not just across the Labour party and the Labour movement , but across this House and beyond . may I say thank you to those opposite who have send message ? it be a great comfort to his family to know the respect that he be hold in across this House . our thought this evening be of course with his family at this difficult time . as I say , there will be a minute ' s silence tomorrow , and I will give the House an opportunity for further tribute to be pay . safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill Third Reading ( Programme Order , 12 December 2023 ) I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . I of course echo the tribute to Sir Tony . the Prime Minister , the Government and I have be clear that we will do whatever it take to stop the boat , and we have of course be make progress on that pledge , reduce small boat arrival by over a third last year , but to stop the boat completely and to stop they for good we need to deter people from make these dangerous journey — from risk their life and from line the pocket of evil , criminal people - smuggle gang . the new legally bind treaty with the Government of the Republic of Rwanda respond directly to the Supreme Court ' s concern , reflect the strength of the Government of Rwanda ' s protection and commitment . this Bill send an unambiguously clear message that if you enter the United Kingdom illegally , you can not stay . this Bill have be meticulously draft to end the merry - go - round of legal challenge ; people will not be able to use our asylum law , human right law or judicial review to block their legitimate removal . and the default will be for claim to be hear outside of this country . only a very small number of migrant who face a real and imminent risk of serious and irreversible harm will be able to appeal decision in the UK . as thing stand , can the Home Secretary confirm that if this Bill receive Royal Assent it will not breach international law ; yes or no ? my right hon . friend raise an important point and it give I an opportunity to be unambiguous and clear . as draft , as we intend this Bill to progress , it will be in complete compliance with international law . the UK take international law seriously and the country we choose to partner with internationally also take international law seriously . the previous intervention be extremely apposite . will the Foreign Secretary be kind enough to give I the advice as to why he say what he just do about no breach of international law ? my hon . friend will know that the Government do not make their legal advice public . we have put forward , of course , an explanation of our position but I be absolutely confident that we will maintain our long - stand tradition of be a country that not just abide by international law but champion and defend it . under our new legislation migrant will not be able to frustrate the decision to remove they to Rwanda by bring systemic challenge about the general safety of Rwanda . can the Home Secretary assure we that if this Bill be pass tonight there will be a system in place that accurately test its success , month by month and week by week , so that we know that all this anger , all this frustration , all this work be not for nothing ? the hon . Gentleman certainly speak for a number of member in the House , although maybe not too many on his own Benches , because it sound as if he want this to work , whereas plenty of Opposition Members have try to frustrate our attempt to deal with illegal migration . but we will of course want to assess the success because we want to be proud of the fact that this Government , unlike the opposition party , actually care about strengthen our border and defend ourselves against those evil people smuggler and their evil trade . to be clear , we will disapply the avenue use by individual that block the first flight to Rwanda , include asylum and human right claim . without that very narrow route to individual challenge , we would undermine the treaty that we have just sign with Rwanda and run the very serious risk of collapse the scheme , and that must not be allow to happen . but if people attempt to use this route simply as a delaying tactic , they will have their claim dismiss by the Home Office and they will be remove . the Bill also ensure that it be for Ministers and Ministers alone to decide whether to comply with the ECHR interim measure , because it be for the british people and the british people alone to decide who come and who stay in this country . the Prime Minister say he would not have include that clause unless we be intend and prepare to use it , and that be very much the case . we will not let foreign court prevent we from manage our own border . as reiterate by the Cabinet Office today , it be the established case that civil servant under the civil service code be there to deliver the decision of Ministers of the Crown . the Bill be key to stop the boat once and for all . to reassure some of the people who have approach I with concern , I remind they that Albanians previously make up around a third of small boat arrival , but through work intensively and closely with Albania and its government , more than 5 , 000 people with no right to be here have be return . the deterrent be powerful enough to drive down arrival from Albania by more than 90 % . Strasbourg have not intervene , flight from Rwanda have not be stop and the House should understand that this legislation once pass will go even far and be even strong than the legislation that underpin the Albania agreement . we obviously support the Albania agreement , but will the Home Secretary confirm that only 5 % of Albanians who have arrive in the country over the past few year on small boat have be return or remove ? what have happen to the other 95 % ? as I have say , it be about deterrence , and the deterrent effect be clear for anyone to see , with a more than 90 % reduction in the number of Albanians who have arrive on these shore . I be glad that the shadow Home Secretary choose this point to intervene , because it remind I that the Labour party have no credible plan at all to manage our border . the Opposition have try to obstruct our plan to tackle illegal migration over and over again — more than 80 time . they even want to cut a deal with the EU that would see we receive 100 , 000 extra illegal migrant each and every year . [ interruption . ] they cheer . the shadow Home Secretary be pleased with the idea that we be go to receive an extra 100 , 000 every year . they can laugh , but we take this issue seriously , because it be not what our country need and it be not what our constituent want . we be unite in agreement that stop the boat and get the Rwanda partnership up and run be of the utmost importance . have a debate about how to get the policy right be of course what this House be for . that be our collective job , and I respect my good friend and colleague on the Government Benches for put forward amendment in good faith to do what they believe will strengthen the Bill . while my party sit only a short physical distance from the party on the Opposition Benches , the gulf between our aspiration to control our border and their bla é laissez - faire attitude to border control could not be more stark . stop the boat be not just a question of policy ; it be a question of morality and of fairness . it be this government — this conservative party — who be the only party in this House take this issue as seriously as we should . I urge this House to stick with our plan and stop the boat . may I first add my tribute to Tony Lloyd ? he do such wonderful work in policing , as well as in this place . what a farce . today and yesterday have be more day of Tory chaos and carnage . we have a Prime Minister with no grip , while the british taxpayer be continually force to pay the price . former Tory Cabinet Ministers and deputy chair from all side have be queue up to tell we it be a bad bill . they say it will not work , it will not protect our border , it will not comply with international law and it be fatally flawed . the only thing that the Tories all seem to agree on be that the scheme be fail and the law will not solve it . the Prime Minister be fail , too , and they know it . we have a fail Rwanda scheme that be cost Britain £ 400 million , that send more Home Secretaries than asylum seeker to Kigali and that will only apply to less than 1 % of those arrive in the UK . this be the third Tory law on channel crossing in two year . it will get through tonight , just like the previous two Bills do — even though they fail . just like the last two , it be a total con on the british people . this chaos leave the Prime Minister ' s authority in tatter . he be in office but not in power . no one agree with he on his policy , and the real weakness be that he do not even agree with it himself . the Prime Minister be so weak that he have lose control of the asylum system , lose control of our border and lose any control of the Tory party . sixty Tory mp have vote against the Government , two deputy chair be sack , a Home Secretary and Immigration Minister have formerly be lose , and Cabinet Ministers have be brief openly that they do not support the Bill . the Home Secretary himself think it be " batshit " , the Prime Minister try to cancel it and yet be so weak that they be still go ahead . under the Tories , we have see border security weaken while criminal gang take hold , because they have not take the action that we need . the backlog soar ; the budget bust . criminal smuggler conviction have drop by 30 % , and return have halve . that be instead of the practical plan that Labour set out to set up the new return and enforcement unit to stop the Home Office from just lose thousand of people that it can not keep track of , to stop the halving of the return unit , to set up the new security power to go after the criminal gang and stop the 30 % drop in criminal gang smuggler conviction , and to have the additional cross - border police unit that we could be invest in if we be not spend so much money on this fail Rwanda scheme . four hundred million pound of taxpayer ' money be go to Rwanda , all without a single person be send . that be all in addition to the Government ' s whop multibillion - pound hotel bill . of course , if they get flight off , it will probably cost another £ 10 million to £ 20 million for every 100 people they actually manage to send . President Kagame make an astonishing intervention this afternoon . he say that he be happy for the scheme to be scrap and may be offer to refund the money . think what we could do with £ 400 million — that be more than a third of the budget of the National Crime Agency . the Kigali Government have clarify the position this afternoon — and it be even bad . they say : " under the term of the agreement , Rwanda have no obligation to return any of the fund pay … if no migrant come to Rwanda under the scheme , and the UK government wish to request a refund of the portion of the funding allocate to support … we will consider this request . unbelievable . the Government sign a deal and a whole series of cheque to send hundred of million of pound of british taxpayer ' money to Rwanda for a scheme that they be warn would not work , might be unlawful , would not work as a deterrent , would be unenforceable and would be at high risk of fraud . they sign it because they do not give a damn about taxpayer ' money . now they want to pass the Bill and spend even more taxpayer ' money on this fail scheme . the scheme be likely to cover less than 1 % of the people who arrive in the country last year . More than 90 , 000 people apply for asylum , and the Court of Appeal say that Rwanda have capacity for only 100 people . the Immigration Minister admit that it be just a few hundred , and not any time soon . if the Government ever finally implement the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , that will immediately create a list of 35 , 000 people the Home Secretary be suppose to send immediately to Rwanda . at this rate , it will take the Government 100 year to implement their own fail policy . to be honest , it be probably even bad than that , because they can not even find most of the 5 , 000 people they put on the initial Rwanda list . it be totally unbelievable : in the space of about 18 month , the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary have literally lose 4 , 200 people they plan to send to Rwanda . I bet the Prime Minister wish he could lose a few of those Home Secretaries he manage to send . rise — the Prime Minister do also lose his Immigration Minister as part of the chaos of the last few week and month — I give way to the former Immigration Minister . if the shadow Home Secretary do not like the Rwanda policy , why do she brief the Times over the Christmas holiday that she be in favour of an offshore processing scheme , which everyone know be more expensive than a scheme like Rwanda and have far less deterrent effect ? it seem that everything she do not like be her plan , except she do not have the gut to put her name to it , so she brief the Times anonymously . nice try with total nonsense from the former Immigration Minister , who have a history of make thing up . it be not clear that there be anything on the planet more expensive per person than the Government ' s Rwanda scheme : £ 400 million to send nobody to Rwanda and to totally fail . I give the former Immigration Minister credit for expose the Government and the Prime Minister ' s real plan — in his word , to try and get a few " symbolic flight " off before a general election , with a small number of people on they . not to worry about handing over a small fortune to another country , or the fact that all this focus on one small , fail scheme mean that the Government be fail to go after the gang . they have lose thousand of people the Home Office should be track . not to worry that this new law be so badly draw up that , frankly , the Government may be order by the court to bring people back , at far huge cost to the british taxpayer , turn the whole thing into an even big farce . this be not a workable policy ; it be a massive , costly con . the Government be try to con voter and con their own party , but everyone can see through it . a £ 400 million Rwanda scheme for a few hundred people be like the emperor ' s new clothe . the Prime Minister and his Immigration Ministers have be desperately spin the invisible thread , but we can all see through it . the Home Secretary be wander naked around this Chamber , wave a little treaty as a fig leaf to hide his modesty behind . I admit , he do not have much modesty to hide . there be thing that the Home Secretary and I agree on . we agree on work with France . we agree on the deal with Albania . we agree on the importance of stop dangerous boat crossing that be undermine border security and put life at risk . I think he probably agree with we about the failing of the policy he be try to defend today . we need strong border security and a properly control and manage asylum system so that the UK do its bit to help those flee persecution and conflict , and those who have no right to be here be return . we need labour ' s plan for the new security power , the new cross - border police , the new security agreement , the new return and enforcement unit , the clearing of the backlog , the ending of hotel use , and keep track of the thousand of people the Home Secretary have lose . the Government will get their law through tonight — the third new law in two year ; the third Home Secretary to visit Rwanda with a cheque book ; the third bilateral agreement with Rwanda . Tory Back Benchers have be say that it should be three strike and you ' re out . we be now on three , six , nine strike , and they have not even get to first base , because every time they bring forward a new law , it make thing bad . the first new law fail because its main provision be now suspend . the second new law fail with the main provision not even implement . forgive we for not believe a word the Government say , and for vote against a third fail Bill today . the only difference now be that none of their Back Benchers believe they , either . broken promise on clear the backlog , on end hotel use , on stop the boat and on return people who come . it be chaos — fail on smuggler gang , fail on return and fail to get a grip . Britain deserve well than this Tory asylum chaos . I will simply reply to the Labour party . if I vote against Third Reading this evening , I certainly have no intention of do a single thing to support the proposition of labour ' s Front - Bench spokesman . let I get that completely clear . labour be not do anything . it have no plan . I want the Bill to succeed , and if I vote against Third reading it will be because I do not believe , to use the Home Secretary ' s own word , that this be the " tough immigration legislation " that we could produce , nor do I think we have do " whatever it take " . I can only say that in this context , but it be about the law . my main concern be that there will be another claim as a result of this . I do not think anybody expect anything else . when it happen it will go to the Supreme Court and the question in front of the Supreme Court will be very simple . I put that point in my speech yesterday , and I do not retract a single word . I be extremely grateful to those very senior people some member of the Government , who say to I privately that they agree with every word I say . I say that for this reason . if the Act of Parliament be sufficiently comprehensive , use the " notwithstanding " formula , and the word use be clear and unambiguous , then there be no doubt at all that we would win that case in the Supreme Court . sadly , I just do not think that that be go to happen . I explain why yesterday , so there be no need or reason for I to go into it now . I have say what I have say . all I can say be that I wish the Government well , but I can not in all conscience support the Bill , because I have set out my case and , on principle , I be not go to retract it . I call the SNP spokesperson . the front page of this tawdry , pathetic piece of unworkable legislation say , in the name of the Home Secretary : " I be unable to make a statement that , in my view , the provision of the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill be compatible with the Convention right , but the Government nevertheless wish the House to proceed with the Bill . " it be another illegal Bill that will not work and will not fix the problem . it be a Bill for which the Government have no mandate . the 2019 conservative manifesto say : " we will continue to grant asylum and support to refugee flee persecution , with the ultimate aim of help they to return home if it be safe to do so . " nothing about flight to Rwanda , nothing about extradition , nothing about rip up people ' s fundamental human right . since then , there have be two unelected Prime Ministers , four Home Secretaries and no mandate for this Bill . the UNHCR ' s assessment of the Bill state : " it maintain its position that the arrangement , as now articulate and the UK - Rwanda Partnership Treaty and accompany legislative scheme , do not meet the require standard relate to the legality and appropriateness of the transfer of asylum seeker and be not compatible with international refugee law . " Rwanda have be clear that it do not want to sign up to an agreement that breach international law . the Bill breach international law . that be very clear . it be very dangerous that the Government be go down this road . we can not make a country safe simply by legislate that it be so . this Government be engage in a fantasy . more dangerous than that , they ask the court , public servant and all of we to engage in that same fantasy . it become upside down and topsy - turvy — right be wrong and wrong be right . all those thing make no sense . we can not make a country safe simply by legislate it so . we know that the Bill be no deterrent , because the supposedly harsh Bills that come before it have not be a deterrent either . it have be 181 day since the last tough , harsh and difficult piece of deterrent legislation be pass , and measure be not yet even in force from the Government ' s previous tough , difficult harsh Bill that be suppose to be a deterrent , so we can not believe they now . we also find that the tiny number of people will send to Rwanda anyway . Less than 1 % of those cross this year will be send to Rwanda . what happen to the rest of the people leave in immigration limbo to wander the street of these island ? the Government can not say , they do not know and they have no idea what they will do when people have no right and be out look for assistance . the Bill amount to nothing more and nothing less than state - sponsor people traffic . [ interruption . ] conservative member do not like to hear it , but it be the truth . I will explain to they exactly why . they should listen to my description and see what they think . far from dismantle criminal gang , this Government have become a criminal gang , break international law and move vulnerable people across the world without legal process — no right of appeal and no concern for the safety or human right of asylum seeker — to a country they do not know , involve money and involve profit . it involve people this Government will never meet and never look in the eye . they will never sit across the table and watch they in tear because they can not be safe . Robert Burns , that great humanitarian of Scotland , say : " man ' s inhumanity to man make countless thousand mourn ! " I mourn what this government be do to human right , and the undermining of international law and international principle , and I give this assurance : when Scotland get its independence we will take our place in the world , we will take our responsibility seriously , and we will play our full part in the world as an independent nation . let I begin by add my tribute to Tony Lloyd , one of the most charming and civilised politician in this House , a model that would do well to be replicate more widely than it sometimes be . it be clear from the debate that have take place in the last couple of day that it be this side , and this side only , that understand the concept of deterrence when it come to the importance of deal with illegal immigration . [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) have have her hysterical say , and I will have mine . that understanding be in stark contrast to the intellectual vacuum that pass for today ' s Labour party . on this side the debate have be entirely about the workability of the Bill , and we have hear some exceptional speech over the last couple of day . if I may , I will single out that of my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) . I do not believe we should be demonise , at any point , those who want to secure a well future for themselves by seek asylum in , or migration to , the United Kingdom , which be a fine , fair , tolerant society that anyone would want to join . however , the principle of territorial asylum — the right to access the national asylum system on set foot on land — have already have a coach and horse drive through it by the fact that many of these people be not come by boat from a dangerous country , but be come from France . that can not be tolerate if we be to have control over our border . even more important — this point have be make frequently by my right hon . and hon . friend — be the need to curb the evil of people smuggle and destroy the economic model of those who traffic in that most disgusting trade . I have to say that political infringement of the ECHR be nothing compare with the duty to stop people suffocate in lorry or drown while cross the channel , especially give that when it come to deportation , France be the country that be perfectly willing to ditch the judgment of the echr when it suit it . our deterrent will be even great if we pass this legislation and can persuade other country to do the same in a synergistic way . the Bill may not be everything that everybody want , but it be much well than what we have today . if I have vote only for legislation with which I agree 100 % , my voting record in the past year 32 might have be different from what it be today . I hear those on my own side say that we can replace this Bill with something else , but we can not . as you well know , Mr Speaker , " Erskine May " say : " when a Bill have be reject , or lose through disagreement , it should not , accord to the practice of Parliament , be reintroduce in the same session . " this be the one chance that we have to pass this legislation . what we do will be judge by our voter accord to their priority . if we leave tonight with nothing , that judgment will be harsh — or , bad , it will leave we to the cringe mediocrity that make up his Majesty ' s Opposition . I , too , pay tribute to Tony Lloyd , with whom I sit in Westminster Hall during his last speech . it be about human right , the very issue that we be discuss now . he speak with such wisdom , and we will all miss he . I be shocked to hear a member call another Member — a female member — " hysterical " . it be a classic use of a misogynistic term , and I be shocked to hear it . this be the Third reading of the third Bill in two year to try to stop the channel crossing . the first , the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 , have be partially suspend because it be make thing bad . the second , the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , have mainly not be implement because the Home Office believe it be unworkable . so here we be for the third time . this be the " fail again and fail hard " version : unaffordable , unworkable and unlawful . it weaken our national border and undermine international court — those court that protect and on which we rely as british citizen . I have be very concerned about the attack on the European Court of Human Rights during debate on the Bill . the cost be spiral , at £ 400 million plus the £ 2 . 1 million that be already spend on legal bill alone by November 2023 . this late gimmick — not a plan — let down people flee persecution and will not deliver on fix the immigration system . it will leave nearly 100 , 000 case in the backlog , 56 , 000 people in hotel and , as we have now hear , more than 4 , 000 people miss from the system . it will not fix the system that the Conservatives have break . it will not be that deterrent ; it be too small and unworkable . it do not respond to the international situation of increase climate change impact and conflict around the world that be drive people to seek safety . it feel like the Conservatives can not cope with international reality and have stick their finger in their ear and be chant something about Rwanda instead of face up to reality . this let our country down . what will stop the boat and the dreadful death in the cold sea be Labour ' s plan . we will clear the backlog with a new fast - track system and 1 , 000 officer . we will end hotel use , save the taxpayer over £ 2 billion , and improve enforcement with a new return and enforcement unit to reverse the collapse in return for those who have no right to be here . the Conservatives start this work by employ some temporary new officer and it start to work , so why not invest in the thing that work instead of this gimmick ? they have start clear the backlog . the Tories have also start smash the gang through the work that they be do in France . again , it be begin to work , so why not invest in those thing that work , rather than in the Rwanda plan ? it be nonsense to start something but not finish it and leave a half - bake plan in place . what work be smash the gang and work with France . we would smash the supply chain with new power and a new cross - border police unit , which would prevent the boat from reach the french coast in the first place . we would work in partnership internationally to address some of the humanitarian crisis that be lead people to flee from their home . we believe in strong border security and a properly control , manage and fair asylum system , so that the UK can do our bit to help those flee persecution and conflict but return those with no right to be here . we also believe in stop the gang , who be the only winner from this Bill . under the Tories we just have costly chaos . it be important to speak in this debate . I have to say , I be somewhat astonish by the speech of the shadow Home Secretary , who can not even get the name of the country right , talk about the Kigali Government when we be talk about Rwanda — a respected country that have recently be president of the Commonwealth . I want to associate myself with the comment about the sad loss of Sir Tony Lloyd . as a Member of Parliament in both Manchester and Rochdale , he be assiduous for his constituent and assiduous when he be in government , and he will be much miss in this House . the reason why I stand today be that I be keen to make sure that this Bill get through its Third reading with the large majority possible , so that we can say to the other House that the elect House have have its say . we be do this Bill solely because , have have the excellent Illegal Migration Act take through by my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Fareham ( Suella Braverman ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) — which , we should all remember , the Labour party oppose religiously , block everything that we try to do — the Supreme Court , after disagree with the High Court , point to the issue of Rwanda specifically . it be important that Parliament stand up and address that specific point so that we can get through this stage and then commence the relevant section of the Illegal Migration Act , particularly regard have a safe third country . I be conscious that temperature be pretty high , but there be a genuine passion on this side of the House to respect the will of our constituent , who want to see a fair legal migration system and not the vague plan — which really be not a plan — from the Labour party . I say to my right hon . and hon . friend : support this Bill tonight so that we have the big majority possible . I appreciate what other member have say , but clause 2 be very specific that when decision maker be make decision , Parliament have give its full confidence that when people go to Rwanda they will be treat fairly and that the convention will be apply . then we will have not only the effective process but the effective deterrent , which I think the whole House seek . let we be clear and let we talk with one voice . I wish the Opposition would join we , but I know from their track record of oppose the Illegal Migration Act that they might talk the talk , but they be full of bluster . they do not really mean it and they do not really care . I know that this Conservative Government care , and I know that every Conservative MP care . we need to make sure that the Lords listen to the elect House . I be gutte by the loss of Sir Tony Lloyd . he be a decent , kind , wise man and an excellent member of Parliament . we will all seriously miss he . they say that the small the stake , the more ferociously they be fight over . the small stake be that if this Bill work , 1 % of the asylum seeker who come to this country might just end up be send to Rwanda , at a cost of £ 240 million and counting . we know it will not be a deterrent , as we know that people have travel from the horn of Africa , through Libya , over the Mediterranean and through Europe . as if the 1 % chance that they may go to Rwanda will put off the tiny fraction of people who try to cross the english channel , have take all the risk they have take to get as far as France . of course people travel from France . they be not go to bloomin ' sail directly from Libya , be they ? for pity ' s sake . People will come from France . the french Government could say to Spain and Italy , " no , these people should stay in your safe country . " the House will see where I be go . if we do not work co - operatively , the whole thing fall down . the real issue be the backlog of 165 , 000 asylum case that this incompetent Government have fail to clear . I have cover the issue of deterrence , but the people smuggler may well decide to bring people into this country under the radar , without claim asylum at all . we would not reduce the number come here , but we would massively increase the number of people who end up in the black market as victim of trafficking and sexual slavery , and so on . only a quarter of those few people who be deny asylum , have go through the system , be remove by this Government . we have a Government who talk tough and act weak . if they actually want a deterrent , they would make sure that there be a system to deal with those 165 , 000 people , and they would remove the one who be not genuine asylum seeker . even the Government ' s own figure show that 75 % of the people who come here to claim asylum be legitimate and genuine refugee . if the Government want to deter people , they should assess they and return the one who be not genuine refugee . the weak thing about this Bill be that it be predicate on the Government ' s desire to demonise the world ' s most vulnerable people because they think the electorate like it . they have misunderstood and massively underestimate the british people , and certainly my constituent , who be well than they think they be . I can tell the Government about my community . in 1945 , half the child who survive the death camp in Nazi - occupy Europe come to our shore . in fact , they come to the shore of Lake Windermere . they be the windermere boy , the windermere child , and we be proud of that legacy because it speak to the kind of people we be in the lake and in Britain . I have visit some of the refugee camp in Europe , and when I speak to the people who seek to come to the United Kingdom — by the way , it be important to remember that 19 European Union country take more refugee per head than the United Kingdom — the thing that drive they to come here be not benefit or the NHS but a belief in Britain . they believe that Britain be the kind of place where they can raise a family in peace , where they can earn a living and where they can have religious freedom and other liberty . that reputation be build on hundred of year of proud experience of what it be to be british . our forefather and foremother build that reputation , and it will take more than this tawdry Government and this shabby legislation to undermine that reputation overseas . the Government want to make Britain unattractive , and they will fail . the Bill will fail . it be a costly , expensive failure , and it deserve to be reject by this House . I will be quick , Mr Speaker . this have be a useful debate already , because we have hear from the opposition party where they stand . we have hear from the Scottish National party that it want Scotland to take its place among the nation of the world . what we do not hear be whether the SNP want Scotland to take its fair share of the refugee of the world , because as yet it do not do so . it be good to hear from Labour that it do have a plan to stop the boat — it be our plan . it be everything we be do already , just without the Rwanda bit , which be the one essential piece of the jigsaw that will act as an effective deterrent and stop the boat . the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) make a passionate speech , but I think he be say that we should just be more like Europe on refugee and asylum , and I be not sure that that be what the public want . I wish briefly to pay tribute to a few people . first , I pay tribute to the Government Whips , who have do a brilliant job today . I congratulate they and honour they for their effort ; they have be more successful than I have today , but I be glad that we be all more or less united again as a party . I pay particular tribute to the Minister for counter Illegal Migration , who have work with colleague across our party and across the House to address the concern we have . I be pleased to say that some commitment have be give today and in the past few day , although I do not think they go far enough . I want to acknowledge the important work that my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) have do in Committee , because their amendment , which so many of we have support in the past two day , would have make significant improvement to the operation of this Bill . we be all in the same place , as many colleague have say ; all Conservative Members want to do the same thing , which be establish an effective deterrent that would ensure that people who cross the channel be immediately detain and remove . I do not think that this Bill , as draft , be go to work . we will see legal challenge that will clog up the process and ensure that the deterrent be not enforce . I regret that we be not honour the pledge we have make to the people to control our border effectively , which be what they vote for in 2016 and in 2019 so decisively , what all the opinion poll and our constituent tell we , and what all common sense tell we be such an important part of our commitment and responsibility in government . I regret that although the Bill pay tribute , ostentatiously , to the essential concept and principle of parliamentary sovereignty , it do not in fact ensure that that be what we will have . we believe that statute pass in this place have supremacy over judge - make law and certainly over the jurisdiction of the European Court . I be afraid to say that much as the Government agree with the principle I have just establish , the Bill , as it stand , still allow lawyer to use foreign , international law commitment and protocol to override the supremacy of Parliament , and I deeply regret that . we could have get a well bill through Parliament in this session ; we could have develop it , and I understand that it would have be possible to bring forward a bill of different scope that would have achieve the same end . I regret that we be not do that , but I understand that this be where we be . many of my colleague have decide to vote with the Government tonight , because they do not want to cause the political disruption that would ensue from a Government defeat , and I honour they for their decision , I respect that greatly and think it be a very honourable position . my view be , as I say at the outset , that the Bill need these improvement . I do not think it will work and we could have do well . nevertheless , the fundamental fact be that Conservative Members be unite in our commitment to stop the boat through this policy . the real division be not the Gangway on the Government Benches , but the Aisle between we and the Opposition Benches . the great value of the debate we have be have be that it expose the position of the opposition party . they do not believe in stop the boat and we all do . the tribute I receive about Tony Lloyd today come from the ex - chief constable of West Midlands police , who use to be the deputy chief constable of Greater Manchester police . he say that Tony be one of the good people he have ever work with , so I stand here to say that . I want everybody in here to know that they be about to vote for a Bill when they have absolutely no idea how much it be go to cost . we have not be give that information . I be here during the debate in Committee early , when the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , say that there be a view that each person send to Rwanda would cost £ 169 , 000 . that pique my anger so greatly , because I have just come from an event with the Home Secretary to do with it be a year on from the independent child sexual abuse inquiry , where we be consider what progress we have make since then . I be hold in my hand a piece of paper that say that in 2022 some 100 , 000 child be sexually abuse and come forward to say that , and then I look up how much money the Home Office allocate to its sexual abuse against child fund in 2022 . it be £ 4 . 5 million , which I work out be £ 42 for every child who have be rape in that year , and I think about the political capital of walk round and round the Lobby for the third Bill try to do something that win ' t work . the Prime Minister could find 150 judge yesterday — I don ' t know where ; under the sofa ? — when rape victim in my constituency be wait seven year for their case to get in front of a judge . frankly , people who think that it be worth the amount of time spend waste taxpayer ' money on something that have not work the last two time we try it and will not work this time should be ashamed of themselves for vote for something when they have no idea how much it will cost the people in their constituency . I hope that those who turn up today feel shame for the amount of airtime they have take up when they do not do so for the victim of child abuse — [ interruption . ] excuse I ? would someone like to intervene ? no . I be in a british court last week — not a " foreign court " , but a british court — with a victim of human trafficking . she have be traffic twice . we have deport she once already , as a traffic victim , but she be re - trafficked back to this country and I go to the upper tribunal with her last week . she have two child bear of the repeat rape that she have suffer as a victim of human trafficking and the Home Office be try to deport she again . the judge scold the Home Office lawyer for dare to bring the case in front of they and because I be sit in the courtroom , the Home Office lawyer be not so keen to give their evidence in front of I , so they do not really give any — [ interruption . ] yes , I wonder why they do not want to talk about how it be fine for a woman who have be ritually rape repeatedly to have to go back to where that have happen before she have be traffic here . I have hear nothing in any of the debate today about what happen to the victim of human trafficking when we scoop up all these people without any appeal . what happen to they ? currently , I have sit in courtroom where this Government be abuse they . I would never vote for the Bill and neither should anybody else . I be first elect to this House on the same day as Tony Lloyd in 1983 . he be a brilliant friend and comrade who vote against the Iraq war , student tuition fee and the renewal of Trident , and he be a brilliant shadow Northern Ireland Secretary . he will be much miss by many good people all over this country . this Bill be an appalling piece of legislation . it fail to take any account of the human suffering of people who be force , through lack of any other alternative , to try to make a very dangerous crossing of the channel . I have meet people in Calais who be desperate , poor and confused , and have travel from Afghanistan and other place . they be victim of war , human right abuse , poverty and so much else . the Government be now claim that the only way to deal with the issue be to attack what they euphemistically call " a foreign court " , when in reality that court be the European Court of Human Rights , which be part of our judicial system . they be try to offshore their obligation under international law and treaty . on the global stage , it be the wealthy country , such as Australia and Britain , that want to offshore issue surround asylum and the right of people to seek asylum , and pretend that somehow or other they be do the world a favour . we have to work with other country to deal with the issue of the desperation of so many refugee in Europe , and far more in other part of the world . the Bill blame those people for be victim and play into the narrative of the most backward , horrible remark make in our national medium and newspaper about asylum seeker , without ever recognise that those people who have seek asylum legally in this country — it be always legal to seek asylum ; that be there in treaty — will eventually be our doctor , lawyer , teacher and engineer of tomorrow , as they be all over Europe . the Bill play into this racist trope against refugee all over the world , and attack refugee because of where they come from . I hope that the House tonight reject this Bill . I hope that , in future , we do not come back to this kind of debate , but instead start to look at the issue of human right abuse , victim of war , victim of environmental disaster and the need of those people to be care for on this planet as fellow human being , rather than make they out to be the enemy that they certainly be not . desperate people be look for a place of safety . surely it be our obligation — [ interruption . ] the Home Secretary be get very excited , but it be his obligation to try to make sure that they do have a place of safety in which to survive for the rest of their life . I , too , pay tribute to Tony Lloyd . I think that we would all admit that he be a far , far well man than most of we in this House . those of we who have survive thus far advanced cancer often feel a particular poignancy — I know the Home Secretary will agree with this point — when a friend be lose to cancer , so my condolence go to Tony ' s family . I hope that we will have proper time to commemorate he , as you have say , Mr Speaker . I want the boat to stop , not because I do not value the life of those who have pay thousand of pound to risk their life on the high sea in unseaworthy vessel , but because I do value their life . I despise the people trafficker and I do not want the generosity of the british people to be test to breaking point . I be vote against Third Reading today for four reason . first , I agree with the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) and the hon . member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) and for Devizes ( Danny Kruger ) , who be not all here now , that this Bill will not work . it be a false promise and I be sick of false promise . it be a waste of money and I be sick of the government waste our money . and I be very sceptical that it will actually act as a deterrent . after all , if the freezing water of the channel that can take a life in a matter of minute be not a deterrent , how will a 1 % chance of be transport to Rwanda act as a deterrent ? secondly , this Bill be base on a heady mixture of gross exaggeration , preposterous wishful thinking and miserably misconceive machismo . let we look at the exaggeration . the right hon . member for Newark say yesterday : " million of people in the world want to make that journey " — [ Official Report , 16 January 2024 ; Vol . 743 , c . 713 . ] in a small boat . where on earth be his evidence for that ? the right hon . and learn Member for Fareham ( Suella Braverman ) say that there be many instance of asylum seeker purport to be homosexual to receive preferential treatment in asylum application . where on earth be her evidence for that ? many have claim that the vast majority of those arrive in small boat be economic migrant , but the evidence be that when the Home Office have investigate , it have grant 65 % of they refugee status . thirdly , the right hon . member for Newark say yesterday : " the law be our servant , not our master . " — [ Official Report , 16 January 2024 ; Vol . 743 , c . 717 . ] but it be wrong that , even without amendment , this Bill place Ministers above the law . it mean that even if a dog be factually a dog and a court , have interpret the law , have adjudge it to be a dog , the Government can declare it none the less to be a cat . the former Attorney General say early , quite rightly , that we rely in the UK on international law ; it be the basis of how we protect ourselves and our interest . how then can we argue that China , Russia and the Houthis should not renege on international human right law when we ditch it when it be inconvenient for we ? and how many of we condemn Russia , quite rightly , when it declare by statute law that Luhansk and Donetsk be part of Russia when they be patently part of Ukraine , as lay down in international treaty ? fourthly and finally , the right hon . member for Newark say yesterday that " we be not a parish council . " — [ Official Report , 16 January 2024 ; Vol . 743 , c . 717 . ] I agree , so let we stop behave like Handforth Parish Council . let we behave like the House of Commons : protect ancient liberty , include the right to appeal ; respect the rule of law ; and honour our international commitment , like honourable member . the Committee of the whole House have go through the Bill and not make any of the varying and contradictory amendment from the varying and contradictory faction of the Tory party . we be leave with a Bill that , in reality , nobody actually want . the hardliner on the Tory party right do not like it — something to do with foreign court . the Tory leave do not particularly like it because they realise how close it sail to breach our international human right obligation . the official opposition do not like it because , I think , it be too expensive . the SNP be oppose to the Bill and the entire hostile environment policy in principle , because this be just completely the wrong way to deal with some of the poor and most vulnerable people who come to these shore seek refuge and safety . we want to welcome refugee and encourage they to contribute to our economy and society , but it seem that even the Republic of Rwanda be get cold foot — and no wonder . notwithstanding the fact that the United Kingdom continue to grant asylum to asylum seeker from Rwanda , why should a country that aspire to be a prosperous , stable african democracy allow itself to become a political football for wannabe leader of the Opposition that currently inhabit the Tory Benches ? accord to the Prime Minister today , the good — or , perhaps , bad — thing about Rwanda be that it be not the UK , and the very fact of its not be the UK be a deterrent to people come here because they might be deport to it . by the same logic , if the Government threaten to deport people to Disneyland , that would also be a deterrent because Disneyland be not in the UK . of course , Disneyland be a place where dream be suppose to come true , but I think the dream of the former Home Secretary , the right hon . and learn Member for Fareham ( Suella Braverman ) , and , indeed , the former Immigration Minister , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , of flight take off to Rwanda will not come true , and neither will their dream of become the next leader of the Opposition after the election . the SNP ' s dream of an independent Scotland — the dream that will never die — that have its own independent , humane asylum system that recognise human right and want to welcome refugee will come true , and soon rather than later . question put , that the Bill be now read the third time . Bim Afolami Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Oliver Dowden Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Dominic Raab Tom Randall Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Mark Fletcher Scott Mann Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Scott Benton Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Suella Braverman Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Bill Cash Miriam cat Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Simon Clarke Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Sarah Dines Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd James Duddridge Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Mark Francois Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones David Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Danny Kruger Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Keir Starmer Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Samantha Dixon Andrew Western the House divide : Ayes 320 , Noes 276 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read the third time and pass . business without Debate Delegated Legislation with the leave of the House , I will put motion 4 to 6 together . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Medical Devices that the draft Medical Devices ( in Vitro Diagnostic Devices etc . ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 14 November 2023 , be approve . employment Tribunals that the draft Employment Tribunals and Employment Appeal Tribunal ( Composition of Tribunal ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 14 November 2023 , be approve . family Law that the draft Child Support ( Management of Payments and Arrears and fee ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 13 November 2023 , be approve . — ( Mark Fletcher . ) question agree to . Hospice Funding : Devon Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mark Fletcher . ) I be delighted to have secure today ' s important Adjournment debate on hospice funding in Devon . I welcome the Minister and colleague to the debate . a few year ago , at a dinner host by the Rotary Club of Exeter , I be sit between the Bishop of Exeter and Dr John Searle , the founder of Hospiscare , a brilliant local independent charity provide specialist care to people across our county . I must confess that it be a surreal experience for this 30 - something - year - old from Devon who be more comfortable in a pub than at black tie dinner . they both speak to I about local hospice service and the good work they do in Devon . Dr John Searle sadly pass away last year , and I pay tribute to his work , his compassion and his determination . our society would be so much well off if we have more people like John , and I will always treasure the conversation we enjoy . hospice service in Devon provide incredible support and comfort to those suffer from a terminal or long - term , life - limit condition . patient often have multiple condition and complex need , and often require a high level of support . as the Member for East Devon , I be acutely aware of the work and impact of hospice locally . several charity provide hospice service across East Devon , and I want to pay tribute to the one base in my constituency , Sidmouth Hospice at Home and Hospiscare . Sidmouth Hospice at Home have a day centre in Sidford , with a 24 / 7 specialist nursing team work with local NHS dementia service team who benefit from the use of their building . I live in Sidmouth — they do we proud . on that point , will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will . be the hon . Gentleman ' s intervention to do with Devon ? it be to do with the hospice and charity that the hon . Gentleman refer to . this debate be about funding in Devon . I be sure the hon . member for Strangford could say something that relate to funding in Devon . thank you , Mr Speaker . the hon . Gentleman be right to refer to hospice funding in Devon , but while the hospice funding and charity giving in Devon be good , I suggest that it may be even well in Strangford . each year in Northern Ireland , our fundraiser add £ 15 million to the four hospice ; without that money , those hospice could not function . do the hon . Gentleman agree that the Government must stop rely on people ' s charity to fill the gap , and increase funding immediately to meet that need ? I know that his charity giver in Devon do well , but the one in Strangford do equally well . I thank the hon . gentleman for his point . one of the point he raise with I early , when he tell I he be go to intervene on I , be about fundraising , and that have be really difficult since covid for all sort of reason . across the rest of my part of Devon , Hospiscare run hospice at High View Gardens in Exmouth and Searle House in Exeter , and it have run have fantastic clinical nurse specialist team in Budleigh Salterton , Exmouth and far afield in neighbouring constituency . Hospiscare be the big of the local charity , and it support 2 , 500 people each year . however , these charity need dedicated team and a lot of funding to support many thousand of patient . funding matter even more because we know that Devon ' s population be age and grow . in Devon , there be proportionately more old people than the national average . More than 25 % of the total population in the Devon County Council area be age over 65 , compare with less than one in five of the total England population , and 14 % of these people be 85 and over . by 2040 , Devon ' s population age between 65 and 84 be predict to increase to 225 , 000 , which be a 27 % rise , and the 85 - plus population will nearly double to 56 , 000 . hospice across our county be therefore play an increasingly key role . my hon . friend be right to highlight the future challenge for hospice . would he agree that plan such as those come forward for Rowcroft Hospice in my own constituency to very much integrate and provide both nursing and sheltered accommodation , alongside the hospice service they will continue to provide , show a way to generate additional income , while not conflict with their core purpose ? I completely agree with my hon . friend . these service be dynamic and they be work , and the people of Torbay be well serve . I be remind of the increase importance of hospice by Dr Timothy Dudgeon , a constituent of mine from Ottery St Mary . he first approach I two year ago , and we meet at one of my regular surgery in Exmouth shortly afterwards . his plea be simple : Hospiscare , one of the charity I have mention , need fair funding from the NHS in Devon to cope with grow demand . I fully agree with he , but here we be two year later because the NHS simply be not listen . I have raise the matter through meeting , letter and everything else to the NHS Devon integrate care board , and I be take my call to the Floor of this House because I want the chair of the ICB , Dr Sarah Wollaston , formerly of this place , to realise that I be not let this unfair deal for Devon ' s hospice go without challenge . the issue here be obvious to all , and the solution be simply common sense , which be something we ought to try a little more often . hospice across our country and county be face a perfect storm : income from fundraising be fall while cost and demand for their service be rise . hospiscare in Devon have tell I that it be face a £ 2 . 5 million deficit in the next financial year . meanwhile , Sidmouth Hospice at Home have tell I that its average case load have rise by over 50 % in the last year alone . amid this perfect storm , I have be call on the NHS Devon ICB to increase its funding for all of our hospice . icb be responsible for determine the level of funding for palliative and end - of - life care in their area . this be devolution , and I support it . the Government do not decide how funding be spend ; local organisation should know their area well and where to send their money . however , I question the situation in Devon . if the ICB need more money to achieve fair hospice funding , I would bang down the door of any Minister to help they , if ask , but they have not ask , and we have face a wall of silence . that was , intriguingly , until a couple of hour ago , when I receive a letter from the NHS Devon ICB . it be intriguing timing , do we not think , give that it do not reply to previous letter I send last year ? now it have finally respond to one of my letter from November . the NHS Devon ICB say that it be " work on plan to move towards more equitable NHS funding " , start in the next financial year . I be sure colleague here will be press for more detail about that . the wall of silence we have all face in Devon be why I have launch a campaign and a petition on my website to put pressure on the ICB to increase funding to our local hospice , which resident across my constituency of East Devon and beyond be support . I first raise this with NHS Devon ICB two year ago after I meet with Dr Timothy Dudgeon . I really hope the Minister can support my message to the ICB and its chair Dr Sarah Wollaston . our message be crystal clear : there need to be a fair deal . hospiscare be fund for 18 % of its cost from NHS Devon ICB compare with the national average of 37 % from icb across England . Sidmouth Hospice at Home receive no funding from the NHS in Devon at all , and that put it in a small minority in the country receive no money from a local NHS body . that simply can not be right . I be grateful to the hon . member both for give way and for secure the debate this evening which be a really significant one . I know from the Seaton and District Hospital League of Friends where there be the Seaton Hospice at Home facility that the palliative care nurse who work there be amazing people , and they help people to die in a very dignified fashion . give that we have such fantastic people who work for such organisation as Hospice at home in Seaton and Sidmouth , do the hon . Gentleman agree that they ought to continue to have a physical location in which to work from , as they do currently at Seaton Hospital ? do he also agree that the Minister might do well to talk to NHS Property Services so they can continue to have that facility at Seaton Hospital ? the hon . Gentleman make a very good point about Seaton Hospice at Home , and it do a fantastic job for the resident of Seaton and the surround area . he also make a good point about Seaton Hospital , which of course we face challenge with locally , as he know all too well as the Member for Tiverton and Honiton . it be important to recognise that NHS Property Services be an arm ' s length body . have say that , recent meeting with one of the Ministers who have sponsorship of NHS Property Services have shed some light on the attempt to make sure that that building of Seaton Hospital be protect for future generation . but I want to speak about somewhere else in Devon briefly . my hon . friend the Member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) can not be here , but I be tell North Devon Hospice have be try to get its hospice at home service commission for a decade . the ICB agree that it should be but will still not fund the service , which save North Devon District Hospital £ 2 . 7 million through avoid admission . similarly , my hon . friend the Member for South West Devon ( Sir Gary Streeter ) and the hon . member for Plymouth , Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) have raise the same issue with St Luke ' s Hospice in Plymouth . this be plainly unfair ; now must be the time to strengthen our hospice , give they fair funding and help they take pressure off the NHS . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for introduce this Adjournment debate . the threat face by the charitable palliative care sector in East Devon be emulate in my own constituency in Scotland . I have two of the large hospice in Scotland , St Margaret of Scotland Hospice in Whitecrook and the child ' s hospice in Ballach , and the big challenge be how to be take seriously by NHS managerial structure . there be vibrant and commit palliative care structure in these two charity , but sometimes the big challenge be they be take seriously by community health partnership in my area or integrate care board in the hon . Gentleman ' s area . the hon . Gentleman have hit the nail on the head ; he be absolutely right . now must be the time to strengthen our hospice , give they fair funding , and help they take pressure off the NHS . Hospiscare have calculate that its service save between two and three hospital admission every day . these be patient the local NHS will have to cover if the hospice have to cut its service . Sidmouth Hospice at Home have calculate that it be save the NHS locally more than 1 , 300 night of hospital stay through prevent admission , shorten stay length and speed up discharge . be that not what we want ? the benefit of fair funding be plain to see . strengthen our local hospice take pressure off our NHS , but without fair funding , and give the perfect storm of less fundraising income , more cost and more demand , there be a real risk they may have to cut vital service . that include in - patient bed and specialist community nursing provision . this can not be allow to happen . that be why I urge the NHS in Devon to listen to the case I have make today and the Minister to back my call . it be high time for fair funding for our brilliant hospice in Devon . I thank my hon . friend the Member for East Devon ( Simon Jupp ) for secure this debate about the funding of hospice care in Devon . I know that he be a huge supporter of hospice in his area , include Sidmouth Hospice at Home and Hospiscare . we have hear this evening how passionately he campaign on behalf of the hospice that serve his constituency and how hard he be work to make sure they get the support and funding they need . my hon . friend may know — other member in the Chamber for certain know — that I respond to a Westminster Hall debate in November on support for hospice service in south Devon . I know this subject be of great interest to member who represent that part of the country , as well as to colleague across the country . all of we here recognise the importance of palliative and end of life care , which support people at some of the most difficult time , whether individual patient or their loved one . Most palliative and end of life care be provide by the national health service . hospice be a crucial part of the network of end of life and palliative care , and they do a truly wonderful job care for people during those difficult time . I experience that with my grandmother , who spend the last few week of her life in a hospice a number of year ago . they do a wonderful job for she and her family as we spend some precious time with she towards the end of her life . I take this opportunity to send my thank to everyone work in palliative care , whether in the NHS or in hospice , for what they do to support people at that time , and their loved one . across the country , thousand of people receive palliative and end of life care . we have an age population , with many people live with complex health condition . approximately 600 , 000 people die every year in the UK , and it be a demographic fact that that number will increase , in turn likely increase the number of people need palliative and end of life care . hospice specifically support more than 300 , 000 people with life - limit condition each year , in addition to provide hugely important bereavement support . Most hospice be independent charitable organisation that generally receive funding from statutory source and charitable donation . they be root in their local community and be cherish for the compassionate care that they provide . indeed , that funding model be one of hospice ' strength . although many will receive funding through the NHS , a significant majority of their funding will be raise from their community . that be part of the strong relationship they have with their community . that diversity of funding be another strength of the hospice model . on the source of funding for end of life care , the Minister talk about it be a split model in which some be provide by the NHS and some provide as charitable donation and charitable giving . the work of Seaton and District Hospital League of Friends be 100 % fund by charitable giving . the same be true for the model that Axminster Hospital League of Friends be seek to set up . with that 100 % funding , the Seaton league of friend build a wing of Seaton Hospital , yet it be expect that that will be give back to NHS Property Services . what can the Minister do about that ? the hon . Member raise that question in the Westminster Hall debate I refer to . he be talk about a specific situation . rather than spend the limited time I have address that , I be keen to respond to my hon . friend the Member for East Devon , who have secure this debate on hospice funding in Devon . I be talk about the enormous importance of hospice and their role in our community , and the strength of have hospice in our community add to the significance of the care they provide . I mention my own experience . hospice do this thing of make a time that can seem completely unbearable become somehow bearable . that make a difference not only for the individual care for by the hospice but for all those around they . let I turn to Devon specifically . Devon do reflect the national picture , with NHS palliative and end of life service such as a specialist NHS team , community nursing care and a Marie Curie night care service . I mention that because some people may think of hospice as the sole provider end of life care in any community . the picture be broad than that , but of course hospice be important . indeed , NHS Devon have grant arrangement with four Devon hospice that operate in - patient bed . in East Devon specifically , patient can receive end of life care in hospital , at home , in a care home , or from Hospiscare or Sidmouth Hospice at Home , to which my hon . Friend refer . in England , integrate care board be responsible for the commissioning of end of life and palliative care service to meet the reasonable need of their local population . as part of the Health and Care Act 2022 , palliative care service be specifically add to the list of service that an ICB must commission , reflect the importance of end of life and palliative care in our healthcare system . add that will ensure a more consistent national approach and support commissioner in prioritise palliative and end of life care . in July 2022 , NHS England publish statutory guidance on palliative and end of life care to support commissioner with that duty . that include specific reference to ensure that there be sufficient provision of specialist palliative care service , hospice bed and future financial sustainability . I acknowledge that hospice , like many organisation — and indeed household — be have to contend with financial pressure include rise energy cost . that be why charity include hospice have already benefit from the energy bill discount scheme , which provide a discount on high energy bill and be run until 31 of March 2024 . hospice may also be entitle to a reduction in vat from 20 % to 5 % . in addition to that , in 2022 NHS England release £ 1 . 5 billion in additional funding to icb to provide support for inflation . icb be able to distribute that funding accord to local need . it be therefore an option for they to support palliative and end of life care provider , such as NHS contract hospice , with rise cost from inflation . I recognise the financial challenge that hospice continue to face and the difficulty there be in raise fund from local community when people themselves be face pressure with the cost of living . my hon . Friend make a clear case for the financial support that the hospice in his area deserve . I encourage he to continue to argue that point . it be good to hear that he have be in touch with his local integrate care board , which be the organisation responsible for assess palliative care need in his community and ensure that the need be meet . my hon . friend be not the first Member to ask to meet I to discuss this topic , or to call a debate on it . I be work to increase the transparency and the information available to colleague and our constituent , so that they can be assure about the provision of palliative and end of life care . to that end , I have organise a meeting next week with representative from NHS England , and have invite member from across the House to attend it , for an update on palliative and end of life care and to ask question directly of NHS England on this topic . I have welcome the opportunity this evening to talk about the wonderful work of hospice not only in Devon but across the country . I assure my hon . friend and other Members present that I be committed to support hospice to continue what they do so well in our community , and to improve access to palliative and end of life care for people across the country , whether that care be give by a hospice or by the national health service . we be so lucky to have the hospice movement , include St Catherine ' s and Derian House in my constituency . question put and agree to . House adjourn . defer Divisions Immigration Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Oliver Dowden Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon fall Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Diane Abbott Hannah Bardell Apsana Begum Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Steven Bonnar Deidre Brock Alan Brown Amy Callaghan Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Martyn Day Martin Docherty Allan Dorans Jonathan Edwards Marion Fellows Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Peter Grant Claire Hanna Drew Hendry Stewart Hosie Ben Lake Chris Law David Linden Caroline Lucas Angus MacNeil John McNally Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald Anne McLaughlin Carol Monaghan Gavin Newlands John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Kirsten Oswald Anum Qaisar Bell Ribeiro - Addy Liz Saville - Roberts Tommy Sheppard Alyn Smith Chris Stephens Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Claudia Webbe Philippa Whitford Hywel Williams that the draft Immigration Act 2014 ( Residential Accommodation ) ( Maximum Penalty ) Order 2023 , which be lay before this House on 15 November 2023 , be approve . the House divide : Ayes 331 , Noes 51 . question accordingly agree to . that the draft Immigration ( Employment of Adults subject to Immigration Control ) ( Maximum Penalty ) ( amendment ) Order 2023 , which be lay before this House on 15 November 2023 , be approve . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Oliver Dowden Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon fall Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Diane Abbott Hannah Bardell Apsana Begum Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Steven Bonnar Deidre Brock Alan Brown Amy Callaghan Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Martyn Day Martin Docherty Allan Dorans Jonathan Edwards Marion Fellows Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Peter Grant Claire Hanna Drew Hendry Stewart Hosie Ben Lake Chris Law David Linden Caroline Lucas Angus MacNeil John McNally Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald Anne McLaughlin Carol Monaghan Gavin Newlands John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Kirsten Oswald Anum Qaisar Bell Ribeiro - Addy Liz Saville - Roberts Tommy Sheppard Alyn Smith Chris Stephens Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Claudia Webbe Philippa Whitford Hywel Williams the House divide : Ayes 331 , Noes 51 . question accordingly agree to .