I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) on secure this timely and very important debate . I pay tribute to she for her work as Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , along with her tireless and very active effort to secure a more stable , peaceful and prosperous future for the people of the western Balkans . the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , my hon . friend the Member for Wealden ( Ms Ghani ) , the Minister for Europe , would have be delighted to take part in the debate . she be currently travel on ministerial duty , so it be my pleasure to respond on behalf of the Government . I be grateful to hon . member for their many thoughtful and emotive contribution , which help we to understand the significance of the region . the people of the western Balkans clearly deserve the opportunity to live in stable , inclusive and democratic society where they can heal the scar leave by conflict and grasp every opportunity to thrive and prosper . that be what we be strive towards : all six country play their full part in the Euro - Atlantic family of nation , with the opportunity and benefit that bring . sadly , as we have hear today , we be a long way from the peaceful and stable Balkans we all wish to see . the contribution from my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Melton and the hon . member for Glasgow North ( Patrick Grady ) and for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) highlight the context within which we be work : democracy be fragile at well ; political elite be ramp up ethno - nationalist tension for their own benefit ; and Russia , as be highlight by member across the House , be fan the flame of division to distract attention from Ukraine and move the region away from the west . it be good to see the House unite in call out that behaviour . we must , of course , avoid a return to conflict in the western Balkans at all cost . we be painfully aware of the serious consequence that that would have in the region and beyond . meanwhile , it be clear that political weakness and instability in the western Balkans be threaten the UK ' s security . endemic corruption be fuel illegal migration and allow serious organise crime group to thrive and operate in this country , include in the drug trade . with that in mind , we be take a multi - faceted approach . first , we be address the driver of instability , whether that be Dodik ' s push for secession or heighten tension between Serbia and Kosovo , but we be also focus on the underlie factor enable that . we be engage with all six country , take a cross - Government approach underpin by our programme in the region . last year , we spend over £ 47 million on support security and defence , prevent conflict and promote media freedom , along with effort to tackle corruption and organised crime , and to empower woman and girl . give the grow instability , with all the risk it pose , we be prioritise the western Balkans in our diplomatic engagement . as other have point out , the fact that one of the Foreign Secretary ' s first visit be to Kosovo , in January , demonstrate the importance that we place on our tie with the region . indeed , the Prime Minister ' s special envoy to the western Balkans , Lord Peach , visit the region 12 time last year and make a further 16 trip to other interested country , as well as engage regularly with international organisation such as NATO and the EU . the UK have long work with Serbia on share priority and will continue to do so , make clear the point on which we disagree and judge individual by their action . it be not for we to comment on the appointment of individual Ministers , but it clearly raise question when we see a US - sanction individual in the Government . a number of issue have be raise today about the relationship between Kosovo and Serbia . we have see an increase in violence , include last September ' s terrible attack in Banjska , which be describe very clearly by my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Melton . in every meeting , every call and every letter that we exchange with serbian and Kosovan leader , we urge they to avoid inflammatory rhetoric and escalation and engage constructively in the dialogue . only through genuine dialogue and mutual good will can we normalise relation between Kosovo and Serbia and start to build the bright future that their citizen deserve . we also continue to make it clear to the serbian authority that they must co - operate fully with effort to hold to account those responsible for the Banjska attack , take step to tackle cross - border arm smuggling , and encourage Kosovo Serbs to return to the institution and serve the community that they represent . we have also make clear to the Kosovo Government the need to ensure that minority community can play a full and equal role in the country ' s future . we be disappointed that the mayoral recall referendum on Sunday 21 April be boycott by Kosovo Serbs . it be arrange specifically to return Kosovan municipality to representational governance , and it be important for a route back to that to be find . I can confirm to Members , if they do not already know , that the UK will vote for Kosovo to join the Council of Europe . point have be raise about investigation of the Banjska attack . the Kosovan police and prosecutor be the appropriate authority to investigate it , and it right for we to wait for that investigation to conclude . we have previously sanction Radoi č I ć , as well as the Kosovan criminal charge with organise the attack . we have urge Serbia to hold perpetrator to account and address the ongoing problem of cross - border arm smuggling . along with other , the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) rightly speak of the role of Lord Ashdown in Bosnia and Herzegovina , but I think we all recognise the important role perform there by my right hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Beckenham ( Bob Stewart ) . he remind we that that country matter , and highlight the tension that exist there . I will never forget visit Sarajevo with my family . one can not but be move by be in that great city , meet its people , and be remind of the horror of the past . we recognise that we be face the threat of Republika Srpska secede from Bosnia and Herzegovina . we have condemn Dodik ' s secessionist action , and have under - line our steadfast support for the High Representative . we be work with our international partner to deter further attempt at destabilisation , and to support the reform that be necessary for progress towards EU accession . the right hon . Gentleman be quite right . we have note a bit of a move towards sole trustee in a number of case , which clearly give rise to concern about how one person can represent the interest of the member of a pension scheme . we be reflect on that in our work , but one of the member of the Hewlett - Packard scheme write to I this week — he may well also have write to other member — about " the further fear and despair they be now feel as it dawn upon they that their company and pension scheme trustee be meanwhile prepare plan to derisk by transfer their Pensioner responsibility to an Insurance Company " — something the right hon . Gentleman touch on . that transfer will quite possibly mean " no subsequent possibility ever for pre - 1997 increase . " he call that " a frightening prospect " , and it be hard to disagree . the Committee also look at concern about the new define benefit funding regime to be introduce for scheme valuation from September . we note that the regime have be develop " in a different era when the vast majority of DB scheme be in deficit and amidst concern that employer be seek to evade their responsibility to underfunde scheme . " there have be big change since then , especially in the wake of the liability - drive investment crisis follow the Budget of 18 month or so ago . in particular , there have be significant improvement in scheme funding , but the principle of the new regime have not be change . scheme be expect to target a position of low dependency on the sponsor employer , mean low - investment risk at the point of significant maturity . that have promote concern that the funding code will , when introduce , force more unnecessary de - risk , particularly among open scheme , as well as among those that be close but have long time horizon , which would increase cost to employer and result in premature closure . we say that the DWP and the Pensions Regulator need " to act urgently to ensure they do not inadvertently finish off what few open scheme remain by far increase the risk aversion " . in a letter to the Committee on 18 December , the Minister tell we that both the Department and the Pensions Regulator be " acutely aware of the need to take account of the specific need of open scheme , " and he agree that " open scheme should not be force into an inappropriate de - risk journey . " we welcome that assurance , but it need now to be reflect in the final wording of the funding code and in the regulator ' s approach . the vote in Parliament on the statutory instrument come before the final version of the funding code be publish , so member do not quite know what they be vote for at that point . we recommend that the Department and the Pensions Regulator should work with open scheme to address their concern , particularly on the employer covenant horizon — the length of time for which they be confident in the sponsor employer ' s willingness and ability to support the scheme — and report back to we on how they will do so before the new funding code be lay before Parliament . since our report be publish , feedback from scheme suggest that thing may not be move in the right direction . in a consultation response last week , the University Superannuation Scheme — a large and still open scheme — describe the regulator ' s propose approach as " university superannuation scheme " . in its view , the statement that it will be require to complete under the term of the new code will demand " significant … resource for little or no benefit to our member . " to the USS , and to I , that appear inconsistent with the assurance that open scheme will not be adversely impact by the new funding regime . the USS add : " not … have have sight of the revise … Funding Code and accompany covenant guidance have exacerbate " their worry . I know that the Minister understand these concern well . closure of those scheme would reduce pension fund investment in the productive economy at a time when the Chancellor want — absolutely rightly — to increase investment from pension scheme into the productive economy . can the Minister tell we when he expect the new funding code to be publish , whether he will report back to the Committee before then on how the concern of open scheme have be address , and whether he be open to consider a separate chapter in the funding code , set out how the code will apply to open scheme ? let I take a few minute to talk about what be happen on the define contribution side of the picture .