as the Member of Parliament for the home of the British Army , it be my honour to speak in this debate on remembrance and veteran . I will use my time to share a story from a veteran of the Royal Marines , who celebrate their birthday today . my constituent have give I permission to share his story in the debate , although I have change his name to protect his privacy . John serve our country with honour . he be discharge from the Royal Marines after three year of service , but life outside the military be hard . his mental health spiral . he end up homeless , sleep rough on the street , so he go to the local authority for help . this be the part of his story that shock I , because John be tell that before the local authority could help he , it have first to confirm that he really be homeless . rather than take John at his word , he be tell that he would have to continue to sleep rough in a name location for two week and wait for an outreach worker to visit he to verify that he be homeless . John do as he be order , follow what he have be teach by his service , but he find stay in the same place mean he be target with verbal and physical abuse , so he move and keep move — the cycle go on for year . eventually , he be diagnose with complex post - traumatic stress disorder and refer to Op Courage . even then , it take several more year in temporary accommodation and he witness a violent incident , before Op Courage and help for Heroes be able to get John the specialist accommodation in my constituency that have allow he to start to move forward with his life . I know just how great a step it be for John to share his story with I . I take three thing from John ' s story . the first be that we owe our veteran much more than our silence and respect on Armistice Day ; it be our duty to speak up whenever the system that come from this place fall short . secondly , safe and accessible housing be vital . that be why I be so proud to hear just a few week ago the Prime Minister announce the Government ' s commitment to house all veteran . thirdly , John ' s experience tell I that our commitment to respect every veteran must reach through every Government Department and every level of staff if we be to succeed — from the Secretary of State down to every member of frontline staff . that be the culture change need to deliver for people such as John who have serve our country . the spirit of remembrance be define by what we do for one another , and the contribution that every one of we can make . with shared effort , we can build a great legacy for those who serve we — now and in the future .