Oral Answers to Questions Business and Trade the Secretary of State be ask — small Businesses : economic Growth what assessment he have make of the potential contribution of small business to the Government ' s growth mission . what assessment he have make of the potential contribution of small business to the Government ' s growth mission . what assessment he have make of the potential contribution of small business to the Government ' s growth mission . small business be the beat heart of our high street and community , and they be essential to economic success and our growth mission . we want growth in every part of the UK , and small business have an enormous role to play in that . in Southend and Leigh , there be over 7 , 100 small and medium - sized enterprise , and in area like Leigh Road , the Broadway and London Road , very few unit be empty . will my right hon . friend meet I and representative of the local business community to understand the challenge they face , and to discover some of the opportunity that business have take to really capture the market ? I welcome my hon . friend to his place . I have always enjoy my visit to his constituency , particularly enjoy an ice cream at Rossi ' s ice cream parlour . those visit have a serious purpose : they help we to build our programme for small business , which recognise not only issue such as late payment , which this Department will deal with , but the need for the whole government to tackle access to finance and retail crime — the thing that make a difference . I will be delighted to make sure that my hon . friend get the meeting that he request with my official , so we can continue to do that important work . small business in my constituency be keen to play their part in the Government ' s growth agenda , but they tell I that they have be price out of trading in Farnborough town centre because of rise cost . will the Secretary of State join I in congratulate the Federation of Small Businesses , which this September celebrate its 50th year of support small business in the UK ? what be his Department do to ensure that small business that want to trade on the high street be support to do so ? I also welcome my hon . friend to her place . I be pleased to meet she at the Farnborough air show , of which I be sure her community be extremely proud . I also extend birthday wish to the Federation of Small Businesses , with which we work very closely , particularly on policy on issue such as late payment . I be always aware of the FSB ' s incredible coverage ; it have over 150 , 000 member across the country . of course , the FSB begin in Blackpool , so it be another great thing that the north - west of England have give this country . West Lancashire be rich in small and medium - sized enterprise and boast several market , but local business owner and market trader tell I that a lack of access to cash banking service be a major obstacle to grow their business and be place additional cost on trading . how be the Government plan to support sme ' access to cash banking service , especially in rural area ? this issue be important to member in all part of the country , but I recognise my hon . friend ' s particular point about prosperous rural economy . access to banking and financial service be a prime example of the fact that the Government will work across every Department to make sure we be give business what they need . I be not nostalgic , and I understand that banking have change , but small business need to be able to deposit cash on the high street . the key policy in this area will be run by the Treasury , but this be about change the eligibility for banking hub , so that we have more of they . we will see at least an additional 350 in this Parliament , include in my constituency ; tomorrow , I will take a sneak peek at the new banking hub in Stalybridge . under the Labour Mayor of London ' s proposal , many small business that drive van via the Blackwall tunnel will soon have to pay charge of up to £ 40 a day — the congestion charge , the ultra low emission zone charge , and the Mayor ' s new tunnel tax . do the Government agree that this be neither fair nor good for economic growth ? I thank the hon . member for raise a matter that be important to his constituency . my Department work very closely with a range of devolve arrangement around the UK , and it be important to work with they with respect and good faith . this question be clearly for the Mayor of London , but I recognise the hon . member ' s point . we always take heed of the aggregate impact on business of everything at every level of government , which be why have an industrial strategy and a small business plan be key . small business in the south - west have a huge role to play in grow the economy . however , the late south - west small business index score , which measure the confidence of small business , have decline by 23 % — there have be a fall of 30 point since the last quarter . will the Minister meet I to discuss how we can support small business across the south - west ? business confidence be strengthen considerably across the United Kingdom as a whole follow the general election and the return to some political stability , which business of every size have sorely miss over recent year . however , I hear the hon . Lady ' s point about her area and region , which be an important priority for I . I will ensure she get the meeting she need , so we can have a conversation about how we can work together to give people in her area a platform for success . what action be the Government take to support small and medium - sized business in get access to finance , so that they can grow for the future ? I thank the hon . member for that question . that be a key issue . there have be positive development in recent year , particularly through the work of the British Business Bank . the Government feel that the landscape for public finance institution be now quite busy . the key policy be to ensure that the national wealth fund align with priority in this area , expand the work that have be do , and ensure consistency , so there be a ready way for business to understand what can sometimes be a confusing landscape . also , policy such as that on growth hub will continue , so the interface for business be straightforward and simple , and , fundamentally , the product to access finance will be there when they need it . I call the spokesperson for the Liberal Democrat party . it be a pleasure to see the Secretary of State at the Dispatch Box . recent year have see our sme struggle with ream of red tape when they attempt to trade with the rest of the world . report this week have detail the chaos and extortionate expense that small business in the agrifood industry have be deal with since April ' s introduction of the common user charge . I appreciate that this be yet another occasion on which the Government must deal with a mess not of their making , but what concrete step be the Minister take to support and empower our small business to trade internationally ? I thank the hon . Lady for her kind word . I recognise that the liberal Democrat manifesto show that we have many common area of interest , particularly on industrial strategy and trade . under this Government , trade policy will match our domestic , economic and business priority . we will be able to reset our relationship with the European Union because , to be frank , we be unencumbered by some of the internal politic of the last Government . we believe that we can make the most of opportunity around the world . business tell I , as I be sure they tell every hon . member here , that for many year , politic have be drive the agenda , rather than what business need . that will change , and have already begin to change . we will work with anyone in the House who be keen to provide a platform for success on knock down barrier and get business what they need . Industrial Strategy what recent progress his Department have make on introduce an industrial strategy . what recent progress his Department have make on introduce an industrial strategy . what recent progress his Department have make on introduce an industrial strategy . what recent progress his Department have make on introduce an industrial strategy . what recent progress his Department have make on introduce an industrial strategy . what recent progress his Department have make on introduce an industrial strategy . it be lovely to see you in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker , and it be great to see so much interest in the industrial strategy from my hon . friend . however , I believe member in all part of the House can and should support the strategy , and we will seek to make cross - party arrangement . the need be great . we must improve on the UK ' s poor business investment performance , which have be the low in the G7 for some time . we must recognise that so much chop and change of policy in recent year have be to our detriment . that will come to an end under this Government and this industrial strategy . the Black Country have long be a manufacturing heartland , home to numerous business , large and small , that support thousand of good - quality local job . give the Government ' s commitment to support british manufacturing , will the Minister set out how the upcoming industrial strategy will support manufacturing business in the west midland ? it be wonderful to hear a strong and authentic voice from the Black Country make a charge for industrial strategy ; I thank my hon . friend for her comment . the purpose of the industrial strategy be to capture a much great share of the big international investment cycle , to explain straightforwardly to investor what those be , to provide consistency and to choose sector . that do not mean the sector that be not part of the strategy be not important , but be simply because the strategy must have priority in it . I think my hon . friend will support our choice , which will be reveal in the forthcoming week . her area will play a major role in the success of the strategy for the whole of the country . a key plank of our industrial strategy must be green job , which teesside be perfectly position to deliver . inward investment be important — I have a positive meeting this week with a company that want to invest million in green fuel — as be back british manufacturer , which will require the development of the country ' s skill base . will the Minister provide assurance about his work with the Department for Education to ensure vocational education be protect , and british manufacturing be protect as well ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . teesside be a hugely exciting part of the country . there be so much to be proud of there , and so much to be excited about for the future , because of its advantage and the offer that it can make . he ask about green job . I have say many time that decarbonisation can not be deindustrialisation ; that be very important . we must recognise that the policy mix that we have inherit be not the right one for deliver decarbonisation , so change will have to be make . for any business at any level , skill and access to talent in the labour market will always be the foundational issue . we work very closely with our colleague in the Department for Education . the creation of Skills England and a well link between the skill system and immigration be key part of that . moreover , change the apprenticeship levy to the growth and skill levy , which we co - design with business , show that we be address this agenda in a comprehensive way for the step change that be require to make our policy a success . the Secretary of State will be aware of Air Products , which intend to invest £ 2 billion in northern Lincolnshire and green hydrogen project . do he agree that that investment would not only transform the south bank of the Humber , include my constituency of Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes , bring 1 , 400 new job , but be an ideal project to include in the global investment summit ? perhaps he would be interested in meet representative of Air Products and I at some point . let I say how wonderful it be to see my hon . friend back in her place , represent her community and bring with she even more expertise from the role that she have hold and the work that she have do in her time outside Parliament . it be a key priority for I to ensure that good job in the supply chain come with the transition that we all now support . I can tell she not only that we be interested in Air Products , but that my colleague , the Minister of State for Industry , already have a meeting with it schedule in the next few day , and we look forward to work with my hon . friend not just on that , but on many issue in the week and month to come . the voluntary sector have a strong voice under the previous Labour Government , and partnership with it be key to our achievement in office . how will my right hon . friend ensure that the voluntary sector have a strong voice once again under Labour , so that we can deliver the Government ' s industrial strategy , particularly as it relate to the creative industry and the mission to ensure high - quality care for all ? it be also great to see my hon . friend in her place . I enjoy work with she in her previous role in local government , and she bring all that expertise and achievement with she to this House . I wish to embed our industrial strategy for the long term . I want to focus it on long - term , sustainable , inclusive and secure growth that will cover many sector of the economy , as my hon . friend have mention . that will mean the Government have to work in partnership not just with business , but with civil society , trade union and local and regional leader in a way , to be frank , that we have not be do for some year . we will make sure , as she request , that that be a priority , and be visible in the work that we do . a Labour Government bring secure , well - pay working - class job to Knowsley with Ford Halewood . my dad get a job there change my family ' s life and lift we out of poverty . it do the same for thousand of family like ours . do the Secretary of State agree that any successful industrial strategy must provide good - quality , unionised job to lift living standard in area such as mine ? it be also a pleasure to welcome my hon . friend to her place , and I thank she for those comment , with which I thoroughly agree . this be what it be all about — good work and good wage in every part of the country . I will work with anyone to deliver that . her personal story show the difference that such a policy can make . I often reference , for instance , the difference that Nissan ' s investment make to community in Sunderland . when such investment be make and get right , it deliver long - term benefit for community and for the UK — more so perhaps than any other policy area . if we want to address , as I do , the UK ' s profound regional inequality , policy such as these be so important , so I thoroughly endorse her comment . the industrial strategy be only one part of the growth mission , but it be at the heart of the pro - worker , pro - business agenda not just of my Department , but of the whole Government . I welcome our Labour Government ' s commitment to decarbonisation , particularly for Britain ' s automotive industry . it be a vital step in secure the sector ' s future and safeguard high - quality job , which be critical for the Vauxhall plant in my constituency of Luton South and South Bedfordshire . will the Secretary of State update the House on how his Department be work across Government , include with the Treasury and the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero , to drive innovative decarbonisation solution , to ensure the success of our growth mission ? my hon . friend be not a new colleague , and her advocacy of the automotive sector , particularly give her constituency interest in Stellantis , be well known and welcome . this be a challenging area , particularly for her constituency , that we inherit . the previous Government have neglect engagement with the business . since we take office , we have have extensive engagement with Carlos Tavares and the Stellantis team . the journey that the automotive sector have to go on for decarbonisation present challenge , and there be a challenging picture across all of Europe , but the neglect of the previous Government have end . not only be I closely engage on the issue , as be my ministerial team , but so be the Secretary of State for Transport , particularly in relation to the zero emission vehicle mandate — a key area of policy for the business . we will continue that work , and I will continue to keep my hon . friend , and any other local mp , update , as we have do to date . I welcome the Secretary of State and his team to what I think be one of the most important Departments in Government . as a sometimes lonely voice on the Conservative Benches advocate for industrial strategy , I signal support for his intention . I be sure that he agree that the big challenge be to convert our phenomenal science and technology leadership into sovereign industrial supply chain leadership around this country . have lead the strategy for life science — quantum , engineering biology , fusion — may I ask whether he agree that the key to this be cross - departmental Whitehall work , and ensure that we do not end up with endless earnest , well - intend committee , but actually engage the small business , entrepreneur and investor who be drive these sector of tomorrow ? I genuinely thank the hon . member for those comment , because I be serious when I say that I believe that industrial strategy should command support across the political spectrum . that be the norm in a lot of comparable country to ours . I recognise not just the work that he do , but the number of time he do it ; he be call back repeatedly by the last government to do that work . I be often strike by the comment that Lord Willetts make in the Policy Exchange pamphlet about the lack of a supply chain for offshore wind really benefit scandinavian economy , rather than our . there be common area of interest , and to make this industrial strategy more successful than the very credible approach take by the Conservative Government when Theresa May be Prime Minister , we need it to last long , and for it to have consistency and permanence . I know that the advocate and designer of that policy want the chance to do that . the strategy must also be cross - departmental . it will be lead by my Department , but it can not be solely my Department that be engage . I can tell the hon . member that all my Cabinet colleague share our objective and a keenness to make this work . we do not just want strategy put on the shelf for the short or long term ; we want the strategy to make a difference in the community that everyone in the Chamber represent . I welcome that cross - party support . a successful industrial strategy obviously have to include a wise workforce strategy . in the lake and dale of Westmorland , the workforce be far too small for our need and be sadly shrink — 66 % of hospitality and tourism business in the second busy visitor destination in the country be work below capacity because they do not have enough staff . there be two main issue : a lack of affordable place for people to live , and an inability to bring people in from overseas . will the Secretary of State support the extension of housing grant to build more social rent home in Westmorland , and a youth mobility visa deal with the European Union , which would allow we to bring in people to supplement our far - too - small workforce ? the hon . Member make a really important point . we all have common area of concern about the United Kingdom economy as a whole — the poor productivity since the financial crisis , the level of growth not deliver the living standard and public service that we want , and the low investment figure — but there be also specific challenge in each part of the country . the relationship between national policy , local policy and local leadership be the way to address those issue . the hon . member be an extremely skilled parliamentarian , and he add on a couple of issue that be clearly beyond the remit of the Department for Business and Trade — he do it very well . on the reset of the relationship with the European Union , there be practical , pragmatic measure that I will ask all member to support , particularly on the recognition of professional qualification , which I think could have be part of the deal , and what we be plan for food and agricultural product , if we can be successful in that negotiation . those be our ask . there will be ask from the other side , and we will have to work with our partner to negotiate these thing , but I recognise the hon . member ' s key point : yes , there be UK - wide need , but there be specific need in each area , and we have to get they right — for his area , for mine , and for everyone ' s present . far to the question about Air Products ask by the hon . member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) , she and I meet the company last night ; as be often the case , business want to move fast than the Government . will the Secretary of State give an assurance that he will do his very good to ensure that his Department meet the deadline that Air Products hope for ? in a wide context , as the hon . Lady say , northern Lincolnshire be a prime area for the renewable sector , and the Air Products development be key to that . the hon . Gentleman be right to say that business be often frustrate by the pace at which the Government can go . we be do a considerable amount of work on how business interface with the Government as a whole , how that be manage as a relationship , and how we can assemble the different part of the state in the way need to respond to some of our big investment opportunity . frankly , in the past , we have often see the UK miss out , particularly to , for instance , the French . the " Choose France " policy have be fairly successful from their point of view by take some investment that I believe should have come to the UK . they have get ahead of we . we have to understand that the competitive environment that we be now in be extremely challenging and we have miss out on thing . we have to change and get it right and well . I will work with the hon . Gentleman — I have already highlight the meeting schedule with my Minister of State — and he make a fair point that we all recognise have to be address . I welcome the Secretary of State to his place and wish he well in the position he now control . in Northern Ireland we have many business that can excel , but when it come to an industrial strategy I particularly highlight the defence sector and the cyber - security sector . just last Friday , my right hon . friend the Member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) and I have a chance to visit Thales in east Belfast . staff there explain to we that they employ almost 700 people on the site , and they also have an apprenticeship plan that be in action and be take on another 25 apprenticeship . when it come to expertise , they have the skill , experience and success , but they do not have the defence contract , as they have in the rest of the United Kingdom . will the Secretary of State say some word into the ear of the Secretary of State for Defence to ensure that Northern Ireland can play a big part when it come to access those contract ? I absolutely agree with the strength that the hon . Gentleman identify ; he will know that I visit Northern Ireland as the shadow Secretary of State , partly to make that point . we be responsible for the promotion of the defence trade , so the relationship with the Ministry of Defence and the Secretary of State for Defence be very strong . I will absolutely do as the hon . gentleman request . I call the shadow Minister . the Government have repeatedly state that secure economic growth be their fundamental mission , and that be , of course , an entirely laudable aim , but the fact be that more red tape will have the opposite effect . in the light of the right hon . Gentleman ' s plan to introduce radical new labour law , what would he say in response to the Federation of Small Businesses , which have make it clear that firm be increasingly worried about the Government ' s proposal , fear that they will drive up the cost and risk of do business and thereby reduce their competitiveness and financial stability ? I welcome the hon . Gentleman and the new shadow ministerial team to their post . I have sit on those Benches in many question session and understand how it can be at time . business of all size overwhelmingly support the Labour party at the general election . how we behave in government will be exactly how we behave in opposition , and we will co - design policy to ensure that . there be nothing in what we call the plan to make work pay — the new deal for work people — that be not already in the public domain . we have a manifesto with all that in it . it be important to recognise — [ interruption . ] there be a bit of chuntering come from the Opposition Front Bench ; again , something that I be not unfamiliar with . look at the success of business in this area . look at the business that already recognise trade union and that already pay the living wage — look at that success . we be go to raise the employment floor , but it will be to a level above which many UK business be already operate . it be important to talk about the really successful thing that business be do to make sure that their workforce be treat with dignity and respect and get the living standard and prosperity that member on this side of the House be all about deliver more of . High Street Businesses what step his Department be take to help support high street business . the decline of too many high street business be one powerful example of the failure of the last government ' s economic record and the cost of living crisis they cause . work with business and other , we be determined to breathe new life into our high street . in particular , we will stamp out late payment , tackle soar level of retail crime and create a fairer business rate system . high street business such as Rose ' s caf é in Shefford and Jamie ' s Shoe Repairs in Hitchin do so much to bring joy and life to their high street and make the town and village in my constituency so special , but far too many high street business right across my constituency have be feel the squeeze over recent year and just do not feel that the previous Government have their back . what will we be do differently to make sure that we will always be on the side of the high street business that make our community such fantastic place to live ? first , let I take this opportunity to say how much of a pleasure it be to see my hon . friend back in this House ; I go up to his constituency during the by - election campaign , and his result be one of many on election night that bring we all great pleasure . we set out a five - point plan when we be in opposition to support business on high street . at the heart of that be a plan to introduce a fair business rate system , which I know colleague in the Treasury be work very hard on . we also want to tackle the high level of retail crime that scar too many of our high street , and we will be bring forward proposal on that in due course too . to grow , high street business in Eastbourne be rely on Government investment through initiative such as the town fund , of which my town be select to be a beneficiary . our town fund board be fire up and ready to go , but still await further instruction from Government on how to proceed . will the Secretary of State , work with his Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government colleague , urgently update I on whether Eastbourne ' s high street business can still expect to benefit from the £ 20 million town fund investment that they need and deserve ? as the hon . Gentleman may know , the town fund be the responsibility of colleague in MHCLG . I will happily draw his comment to the attention of the Minister who have responsibility for it . but we be determined to work across Government to breathe new life into our high street , and I be sure that the Minister will be very interested to meet the hon . Gentleman and take forward his concern . whether it be well bus , more policing or city centre living , support for our high street ought to be a cross - Government approach , because of the many lever that be available . can the Minister say a bit more about what conversation he be have with other Departments to ensure that support for high street stretch across every facet of this new Labour Government ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to say that there be policy across the whole of Government that impact on small business and particularly on high street business . one of the most significant issue be the need to see a fair business rate system that create well incentive for business to invest in the high street , in comparison with the competition from online giant , so we be work with colleague in the Treasury on that . we be work with colleague in the Home Office to address retail crime — there have be a huge surge in shoplifting — which my hon . friend know have scar too many high street . we be also work with other colleague , as I reference in response to the previous question , to try to bring forward a strong offer to small business . small and medium - sized enterprise be the lifeblood of our high street , and there be many such business in my constituency of Bridgwater . I understand , though , that sme now face pay thousand of pound in fine if they do not uphold the Government ' s new french - style employment reform . will the Minister consider exempt sme from any financial sanction by the new fair work agency ? I congratulate the hon . gentleman on his election to this House . I gently say that he will have hear from my right hon . friend the Secretary of State that we have already consult widely with the business community about our plan to improve right for employee . we do that when we be in opposition and we have continue to do it in government . I be strike by the support that our plan have from small business and high street business , but we will continue to work with small business on the detail of those plan . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . for too long , our high street have be hostage to an outdated and damaging business rate system . empty shopfront and shutter window should never become the norm in our town centre . small business in desperate need of a help hand will have be deeply concerned not to see any mention of business rate system reform in the King ' s Speech . can the Minister assure we that business rate system reform be come soon and that , when it do , it will be a comprehensive replacement of that damaging system ? as I have say in response to previous question , we be look at that with Treasury colleague . in opposition , we make commitment to introduce a fair business rate system . work on that be be lead by Treasury colleague , who will bring forward proposal in due course . UK - EU Trade what step his Department be take to improve the UK ' s trading relationship with the EU . what step his Department be take to improve the UK ' s trading relationship with the EU . forty - seven per cent of the United Kingdom ' s total trade be with the European Union , and improve trade be a central part of the Government ' s ambition to reset our relationship with Europe . minister have already be engage positively on trade issue with our EU and member state counterpart , include EU Executive Vice - President Dombrovskis , german Vice - Chancellor Habeck and Italian Minister Tajani . the Government be seek the practical change need to ensure smoother trade between the United Kingdom and Europe — for example , on mutual recognition of professional qualification , which have already be mention . good export to the European Union be still 11 % low than in 2019 , before the Brexit agreement take effect . can the Minister confirm that , in seek to grow the UK economy , the Government will take an evidence - base approach to the UK ' s trading relationship with our near neighbour , and will take all possible measure to remove the barrier to trade that be hold our country back ? I thank my hon . friend for her question and her observation on the character of trade in recent year . there have be well performance on service than on good , but she be absolutely right to recognise the fall in good trade with the European Union . overall trade since 2018 have essentially flatline . that be why the Government be determined to reset our relationship with the European Union more broadly . within that broad objective , we will look specifically at the border in order to achieve less friction for trade . farmer in Clwyd East continue to raise concern with I about trading barrier with the EU . they feel that the current arrangement disadvantage they , and that not enough have be do since we leave the EU to facilitate trade between british farmer and EU country . will the Minister outline what step his Department be take to remove those barrier and get a well deal for the farming community of Clwyd East ? my hon . friend be already establish herself as a powerful voice for all constituency interest in Clwyd East . alas , the concern that she raise be not limit to that constituency . that be why , as part of the broad resetting of our relationship with the European Union , we be determined to tackle barrier to trade such as those she describe in relation to farmer , include through the negotiation of a UK - EU veterinary agreement that will help to reduce unnecessary border check . I call the shadow Minister . I welcome the Minister back to the House and back to the Government Front Bench . on the final sit day before recess , the Secretary of State slip out an announcement that he expect trade talk to begin with a number of country this autumn , and the Minister have just confirm the intention to open talk with the European Union . when can we expect the Government to publish their negotiate objective for scrutiny by the House ahead of those talk , as demand by the Select Committee and commit to by the previous Government ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his kind word of welcome both to this House and to the Dispatch Box . I hope that we will be able to exchange in exactly this kind of constructive dialogue in the month and year ahead . clearly , we inherit a number of open negotiating mandate from the previous Government — not least in relation to the Gulf Co - operation Council and to India — and we be carefully review those mandate , but we have already be clear that , as well as reset the relationship with the European Union , we be keen to pursue essentially a twin - track strategy , whereby we take forward the work in relation to those free trade agreement . Inward Investment what step he be take to attract inward investment . I thank my hon . friend for her question , and welcome she and her expertise to this House . as she know , investment by private corporation be the low in the G7 for almost all of the last Parliament , and the new Government be determined to reverse that decline . that begin with economic stability , something every business we talk to be cry out for . it involve the development of our industrial strategy , the lever to encourage investment , the national wealth fund , the british job bonus and the Industrial Strategy Council , which will provide the infrastructure that investor can understand and deal with . next month , we will host the international investment summit with 300 industry leader , demonstrate our mission of long - term growth , and because there be not a moment to lose , I be go to Italy tomorrow to meet key italian investor to the UK and show that Britain be back . I thank the Minister for her remark , and wish she the good of success on her trip tomorrow . one of Europe ' s well - perform site for foreign direct investment in the life science be the Thames valley , include my constituency of Earley and Woodley , and our local hospital trust — the Royal Berkshire NHS foundation trust — recently become the first in the country to be award for world - class excellence in its clinical research . will the Minister meet with I , local life science business and hospital staff to discuss how to accelerate investment in our life science industrial cluster ? I thank my hon . friend for champion such a vital sector — our most recent data show that UK life science employ over 300 , 000 people , generate a turnover of over £ 100 billion . with the NHS back on its foot under this new Government , work hand in hand with life science , research institution and other , we can drive the development of new treatment and help grow our industry . of course , I would love to meet with my hon . friend . the Minister have express the importance of life science . can I seek her assurance that Northern Ireland be part of that trade mission as well , especially as it relate to my constituency ? also , regard the Minister for Trade Policy and Economic Security ' s statement about remove barrier to trade , can I ask this Government to ensure that there be no EU barrier to trade when it come to promote business in Northern Ireland ? those business want to thrive , flourish , and be part of this United Kingdom ' s outreach in regard to business and investment across the United Kingdom and , indeed , the world . of course , Northern Ireland be incredibly important to our plan and to we . in opposition , many of we go to Northern Ireland and meet with business . I certainly do : I meet with the Chamber of Commerce and talk about the opportunity for the future in Northern Ireland . I will meet with the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland next week to talk about some of these issue , and I hope the hon . Gentleman will be reassure that we will do what we can to grow job , skill and investment and make sure there be no barrier to trade . Employment Rights what step his Department be take to strengthen employment right . we have already take a number of step to improve employment right in this country . we have write to the Low Pay Commission to ask it to end the discriminatory age band , so that all adult will be pay the same minimum wage rate . we have also ask it to look at include the cost of live when set future wage rate , and have announce that we will repeal the unconscionable and unworkable Strikes ( Minimum Service Levels ) Act 2023 , but there will be more . we will transform worker ' right in this country , and will introduce the employment right Bill within 100 day of take office , as we promise . I thank the Minister for set out just how much this Government be on the side of worker in our country . can I ask he to gently remind the Secretary of State that there be a pint wait for he at the Bridge Street Ale House in Newcastle - under - Lyme from the owner , Grum Newbury ? the people of Newcastle - under - Lyme believe in hard work , decency , respect and dignity at work , so can the Minister set out what this new Government be do to end the exploitative use of zero - hour contract in north Staffordshire and across our country ? my hon . friend be right : the explosion of zero - hour contract in this country have be shameful . over 1 million people be now on zero - hour contract , and one in five of those people report that they would like to be able to get more hour of work , so we be go to end the uncertainty of zero - hour contract . we be go to make sure that work pay , and we be go to give those people a legal right to a contract that reflect the number of hour they regularly work over a 12 - week period . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I welcome the Secretary of State and his Ministers to their place . the Secretary of State seem to imply that business be comfortable with his change to the workplace , but this morning I and my fellow shadow Ministers meet business representative organisation that be far from comfortable with the change he be make , such as day one employment right , a four - day week , a right to switch off and a high and broad national living wage , as well as change to business taxis , include in relation to business property relief , and the fair work agency . do he not realise — do his Ministers not realise — that until he bring forward the detail on these plan , business ' recruitment and investment plan be completely on hold ? when will he bring forward those plan ? I thank the shadow Secretary of State for his question . I just remind he that he have to direct the question to the Minister respond — I be sure we will get there in the end . I also remind the shadow Secretary of State that during the general election , the front page of the Times have 120 business support the Labour party in full knowledge of our plan to make work pay . we be consult regularly and frequently — almost on a daily basis — with business about how the plan will work . I be afraid that the shadow Secretary of State have spend the summer put out scaremongere statement about what this all mean . in fact , the only statement he make over the summer on which I agree with he be that his party deserve to lose the general election . the Minister talk about statement , so I will read he some . the Federation of Small Businesses say its member view these measure with " trepidation " . the Institute of Directors say that confidence be fizzle out , with the big one - month drop on record . the Recruitment and Employment Confederation say that these change " risk fuel long , complex litigation " for business defend themselves at employment tribunal . will he — and the Secretary of State — at least consider exempt small and medium - sized enterprise from these ruinous , french - style regulation ? again , I have to point out that I be not the Secretary of State — perhaps one day . we hear all these argument 20 year ago with the minimum wage . conservative Members be wrong about that , and they be wrong about this . I just hope they be a bit quick to come round to realise that this country be go to prosper with improved worker ’ right , work in partnership with business to improve the economy for the benefit of everyone . electric Vehicles : chinese Share of Market what step his Department be take with Cabinet colleague to mitigate the potential risk pose by the chinese share of the electric vehicle market . China ' s role in the automotive industry be grow , and that invite risk and opportunity . we be work closely with other Government Departments , as the hon . Gentleman would expect , to analyse how this impact the UK . where we need to act , we will do so , and any action take on chinese electric vehicle have to be the right one , include for our UK industry . I thank the Minister for her response , but could she outline the Department ' s wide strategy on challenge China ' s global monopoly on critical mineral , include lithium , much of which be extract by force labour ? I thank the hon . Gentleman for his supplementary question . as I say , we be work closely with our colleague across Government to make sure we have the right intelligence and can make the right decision where we need to act . he will be aware that other country be introduce tariff and take a range of measure . our sector be very different from those of other country — we be not the same as the US or the EU — and we need to respond in the right way when it come to electric vehicle . for example , 80 % of the vehicle we manufacture in the UK be export , so our challenge be different . however , the hon . Gentleman be right to raise these important issue , include the need to look at critical mineral and supply chain , and at how we can ensure we be get as many part as possible from country with which we want to have a different relationship . that be why we have set up thing such as the solar taskforce to ensure that when it come to solar panel , for example , we be use the supply chain as well we can to make sure there be not a global monopoly and that we be economically secure as a country . I call the shadow Minister . what we have this morning be another chapter in the grow theme of what the Government say before the election and what they be do after the election be entirely different thing . the Chancellor of the Exchequer talk in May about reliance on chinese ev undercut british worker and leave we expose , but by July she be talk about the benefit of trade with China . what we have see in this Chamber this morning be that , while the rest of the world — the United States , Canada , the European Union — be act on chinese dominance in the ev market , the United Kingdom Government continue to dither . what be it to be : clear action on behalf of the UK automotive sector , or continued dither and fail to make a decision ? I do not know whether the hon . Gentleman be aware that until recently his party be in government , and inward investment from China grow over four time since 2014 , so I will take no lesson from he on these issue . the automotive industry , which I work with closely and meet regularly , have not ask for what he suggest — it will do . no , it have not . the hon . Gentleman be chuntere again from a sedentary position . it have not ask for that . this be something we be monitor . we will work closely with the industry and do the right thing , and if we need to intervene we will intervene . as I say , the UK ' s economy and industry differ very much from those of other country , and 80 % of UK auto production be export . it be not that we have the risk of EVs in the other direction . the hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) need to recognise the part that his Government play in the development of these matter over many year , and be reassure that we be work closely with our colleague to make sure we do the right thing . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . my Department ' s four priority be to reset our trade relation , deliver a new deal for work people , support small business and implement a mission - focus industrial strategy . in just a few short week , we have begin prepare no few than four Bills for the King ' s Speech . I have attend the G7 trade summit , and set up the Horizon conviction redress scheme . we have ensure UK Export Finance support for the defence of Ukraine , change the remit of the Low Pay Commission and organise an international investment summit for 14 October . I have speak to my international counterpart , to all my colleague in the devolved Administrations and to several hundred business leader . that be how we will build the pro - innovation , pro - worker , pro - business economy that the british people vote for . I thank my right hon . friend for that reply . this Government be elect on a platform to embed economic growth and break down barrier to opportunity . in the past couple of week , I have speak to college and business across my Southport constituency , include our rightly famous Silcock ' s family entertainment centre , to see how we can develop our skill policy to ensure that for town such as Southport , the good day lie ahead . how will the Department work to support the next generation of entrepreneur to ensure that our economic mission be further ? I hope you will allow I , Madam Deputy Speaker , to pay tribute to my hon . friend after what his community have be through , and the incredible way that he step up to represent that community . that be something we would all like to acknowledge . the point that my hon . friend make be right : small business , entrepreneur and start - up be essential to our economic success , in Southport and in every part of the UK , and the support we will give they cover advice , guidance and training . on his point about skill , that be why we have establish Skills England . if we want entrepreneur to take real risk with their own property and income , we must give they stability . we can not change policy every year ; we can not elect Liz Truss as Prime Minister and expect people to take those risk . the stability and consistency we will bring be as important as the policy environment we will create to do exactly what my hon . Friend say . I call the shadow Minister . when deal with the Post Office Horizon scandal , do the Secretary of State understand that by sit on the letter inform Horizon victim that their conviction have be quash , the Department be exacerbate the trauma of this terrible injustice ? after two month in office , I understand that few than one in six letter have be send . when do he plan to get a grip on the situation ? I welcome the hon . gentleman to his place . we have be in office for two month , and we have already set up the Horizon conviction redress scheme . indeed , I be pleased to work with the former Minister , the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , on create the legal environment necessary to do that . the letter be an issue for the Ministry of Justice and its database . we have not sit on anything , and we have move at pace to give people the compensation they deserve . we will continue to do that , and to work with those on the Opposition Front Bench to deliver what we all want to see . many of my constituent in Hendon rely on the national minimum wage , but as we know from research , employer get away with fail to pay that wage to more than one in five worker who be due it under the last government . can the Secretary of State tell the House what step his Department be take to reverse that shameful legacy of weak enforcement ? the introduction of the minimum wage be one of the proud achievement of the last Labour Government , but for too long the UK ' s labour market enforcement system have be fragment and ineffective . that be bad for worker and bad for the majority of business that want do to the right thing and comply with the law . that be why we will create a fair work agency to bring together employment right enforcement , include of the minimum wage . I remind member that these be topical question , so can we have short question and short answer ? can I bring the Secretary of State back to the issue of the postmaster who have not receive their letter ? there have be battle across this House , but those on all side support fast response to the postmaster . Kevan Jones , the erstwhile member for North Durham , be no long with we in the House , but he and I and many other fight this battle . I be sorry to say to the Secretary of State that in say , " it be another Department , " he say what we have hear too many time . we hear it be another Department , another piece of the organisation or another set of lawyer , but it be his job to make this happen . can he please do so quickly ? I thank the right hon . member for his role , which I have refer to in the past and have be important in these matter . I be not pass the buck to anyone ; I be simply say that it be the Ministry of Justice , rather than I , that send those letter out . as of 30 August , 130 letter have be send out , quash more than 370 conviction . I think that be real progress since the election . it be not fast enough for I , and we will continue to push that . we be work closely with the Northern Irish and Scottish Administrations , because of the devolved nature of justice , exactly as he would expect . I can assure he that this matter be a priority for I in opposition , and it will continue to be a priority for I in government . I welcome the ministerial team to their place . business rate be a broken system that have hollow out many high street up and down the country . we be rightly commit to radically reform that . what recent discussion have Ministers have with the Treasury to make sure that we do that at pace ? will a Minister meet I so that I can establish a banking hub in my Runcorn and Helsby constituency ? I would be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss the question about a banking hub in his constituency . as he will have hear in answer that I give early , reform of the business rate system to tackle some of the egregious disincentive in respect of the need to invest in our high street and the competition from online giant be something we take seriously in opposition and continue to take seriously in government . colleague in the Treasury be work hard to bring forward proposal to reform the business rate system . I remind member to speak through the Chair . rural business in the agricultural , horticultural and equine sector in North Shropshire be struggle to trade with Europe . will the Secretary of State update we on progress on make a sanitary and phytosanitary agreement and a veterinary agreement with the EU , so that they can trade without all the red tape that be bogge they down ? I assure the hon . Lady that the SPS agreement — the veterinary agreement , as it be call — be one of the priority we be pursue . that matter be be lead by the Cabinet Office , as be the reset with the European Union . I assure she that dialogue be under way between the Department for Business and Trade , the Cabinet Office and the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs . it be a priority . it will take time to reset , but I assure she that we be fully aware of the urgency . be there any plan to crack down on the dodgy vape shop that be damage the appearance of our high street ? be consideration be give to improve trading standard to protect our young people and child who be exploit by these premise ? good product regulation and public confidence in our system be important across the board for every sector of the economy . my hon . friend will have see the Product Regulation and Metrology Bill in the King ' s Speech . it will give power to the UK Government to regulate in a range of field . what she raise be exactly the kind of area we will be able to consider and debate in more detail . postmaster in my constituency , like many other , have have their life adversely affect by error in the Horizon IT system . when do the Secretary of State anticipate that the Horizon shortfall scheme appeal process will be fully operational ? I thank the hon . member for his interest in this incredibly important issue and the work , which he will be aware of , that ensure that we get to this point . I think this be the big miscarriage of justice in british history , and the move to provide some form of redress be extremely important . we have move at pace to put the scheme in place . we be able to do so because of the legislation we get through in the wash - up at the end of the last Parliament . the hon . Member will have hear what I say about the letter that we get out to get that information to people . [ interruption . ] what be that ? we will take that up offline . I welcome his interest and will continue to work with he on it . business — especially creative industry — in Kensington and bayswater tell I that they be feed up with the adversarial relationship we have have with the EU and the pointless red tape and trade barrier that have come with it . will the Minister outline what step the Government be take to address that challenge ? the reset , of which we have speak today , be fundamentally about turn the page and reinvigorate our alliance with our friend , neighbour and partner in the European Union . as well as secure a broad - base security pact and tackle barrier to trade , we aim to build strong and wide co - operation in a whole range of area include foreign and defence policy , irregular migration , law enforcement and judicial co - operation , while promote climate , energy and economic security . I ask this question on the basis that I be sanction by the Chinese Government for have raise the evidence of genocide and slave labour in Xinjiang . we know that the vast majority of polysilicon be now produce in Xinjiang use slave labour . will the Secretary of State give the undertaking that , as require under section 54 ( 11 ) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 , there will be no use of any solar array that have polysilicon in they make under slave labour in Xinjiang ? I give the right hon . Gentleman an absolute assurance that I would expect and demand there to be no modern slavery in any part of a supply chain that affect product or good sell in the UK . he be right to say that under the Modern Slavery Act , which be put in place by a previous Conservative Government , any business with a turnover above £ 36 million need to have a reporting regime around that . I promise he that , where there be specific allegation , I will look at those to ensure that . it be an area where we have exist legislation , and indeed we would go far if that be require . the Secretary of State pledge to be the most accessible Business Secretary , so will he give we an update on his most recent business engagement ? may I also invite he to meet I , the Rochdale Development Agency and the Rochdale business improvement district to discuss our exciting plan for advanced manufacturing in Rochdale and for town centre regeneration ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for that question . I meet business every day , and my most recent engagement be the breakfast we do on our plan to make work pay , where business themselves be point out the thing they be do because they value and care for their workforce and will invest in they . the issue in Rochdale he refer to be close to my heart as a Member of Parliament from just down the road in Tameside . I will of course have that meeting with he and continue to work closely with he to deliver on his objective . as part of the Government ' s net zero strategy , car manufacturer be expect to produce 22 % of their car as electric vehicle and face a £ 15 , 000 penalty for every car by which they fall short of that . the target be expect to be miss by 100 , 000 car this year because of consumer resistance . the effect on the car industry be that producer be restrict supply of petrol car to retailer , and some be threaten to pull out of the UK market altogether . in the light of consumer resistance , will the Secretary of State look again at the target set , since consumer be clearly not go to be force to purchase car they do not want , and producer will be force to try to get rid of car they can not sell ? I be grateful to the right hon . member for that question . the policy to which he refer — the zero emission vehicle mandate — and its penalty as we ramp up to the phasing out of petrol and diesel vehicle be actually a Department for Transport policy of the previous Government . we support it , because there be no point in have an objective to phase out petrol and diesel vehicle without a corresponding ramp up of regulation to do that . there be an issue with consumer demand , which affect all of Europe . we be work closely on that . under the policy of the last government , there be flexibility — thing that can be transfer from one financial year to the next . we keep everything under close review , but we be commit to the transition . that be essential to industry and consumer confidence and make sure that that happen . every country in the world have similar policy . this be an ongoing transition , and we be absolutely go to make it work for british industry . I thank the Secretary of State for his visit to the Spellow library hub on County Road in my constituency in the day after the riot . he see the challenge that the area face . we need support to deliver a vibrant high street , big investment in new housing and delivery on skill and employment . will he work with Cabinet colleague and the local city council to ensure that , by the end of this Parliament , real improvement have be deliver for the resident of County Road ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and for host I when I visit after the riot . I extend all my sympathy to the business affect . there be no excuse under any circumstance for loot shop , or in this case burn down a library . I be very much affect by my visit . he know that we work very much in collaboration with the Association of British Insurers to ensure that claim be process quickly . by now , I hope that business be aware that if they be underinsured or uninsured , help be still available to they under the Riot Compensation Act 2016 , the detail of which be on the gov . uk website . one Air be a small and grow cargo airline base in my constituency , which be have to deal with huge amount of additional red tape and cost as a result of the Brexit deal and the end of reciprocal arrangement with the EU . can the Secretary of State give an assurance that , when minister negotiate mutual recognition of professional qualification , the aviation sector will be include ? I can give the hon . Lady that reassurance . the aviation sector often complain about the lack of recognition , particularly relate to pilot . there be mutual interest in this area , and it could be a solid basis for negotiation . we can never promise the outcome of negotiation , but I can promise she that it be a priority for we . I welcome my right hon . friend to his place . before the election I meet fruit grower in Nazeing and more recently farmer in Hatfield Broad Oak , both in my constituency , who raise concern about hire seasonal worker cause by Britain ' s exit from the EU . what can his Department do to address that issue ? I recognise the point that my hon . friend raise . our reform to zero - hour contract will not affect seasonal labour — we recognise that it be an important part of the labour market . additional burden have be place on business because of Brexit , as he outline . we do not want to relitigate the argument of the past , but we believe that we can make tangible improvement for business in his area and for everyone . my right hon . friend will be aware of the disgraceful union - bust tactic and intimidation employ by Amazon against GMB member seek union recognition at the Amazon warehouse in Coventry . despite more than 1 , 000 vote in favour , union recognition be lose by just 28 vote . what step be he take to ensure that worker , such as the brave and determine GMB activist at Amazon , can more easily win union recognition ? I draw the House ' s attention to my proud membership of the GMB trade union . we believe that business work well when they give worker a voice through a recognise trade union . I would be very interested to hear more about what have happen at the Amazon warehouse in Coventry . the Government will look closely at that as part of our plan to make work pay . we will simplify the process and law around statutory recognition . last weekend , hundred of thousand of oasis fan be leave anger by the notion of dynamic pricing — a concern that we be see across the wide economy . do the Minister agree that we need an urgent review of such price gouging system ? that certainly take the nation ' s interest in more than one way . the Department for Culture , Media and Sport have already announce a review into it , and we will look at secondary pricing . the whole system need urgent reconsideration , and we understand that the Competition and Markets Authority be look into the matter , too . what think have the Secretary of State give to attend the Williams inquiry ? the Post Office scandal be unfinished business . it be now vital that we not only learn the lesson , but accelerate redress for the innocent and , crucially , punish the guilty fast . I be very grateful to my right hon . friend for that question . as a new Secretary of State , the inquiry and the whole issue have affect deeply how I believe accountability and power should be consider in the role we have as Ministers . it come on the back of what we hear about Grenfell yesterday , and what we have hear about Bloody Sunday and Hillsborough . I believe that , although this be essentially a legacy issue , it be exactly the agenda that we have on come into these job . the future of the Post Office must be link to the inquiry not just in term of redress , but in how the business model work well for sub - postmaster . I do not believe that this have be put into the public domain yet , but I have receive a request to attend the inquiry . I will , of course , do so , and believe it be an essential way to put across what we will take from that inquiry and our plan for long - term reform in the future . UK Steel Manufacturing ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Business and Trade to make a statement on the future of steel manufacturing in the UK . the inheritance the Government receive from the conservative party be nothing short of a disgrace on steel : over a decade of lurch from crisis to crisis , with no clear plan to safeguard the future of a competitive domestic steel industry . this Government be determined to change that . we have be work hard over the summer to set a clear forward direction on steel and resolve a number of complex issue that be only make bad by the indifference of the last government . steel have be one of my Department ' s priority since our first day in office . we be stand by our commitment to spend £ 2 . 5 billion to rebuild the steel industry . that be in addition to the £ 500 million for Tata Steel . the funding will harness public and private investment to secure job and boost growth . we will take action to improve the wide business environment for the sector , include reduce energy bill and enable more green UK - make steel to be use in our infrastructure project . the Government be clear , as the Secretary of State for Business and Trade , my right hon . friend the Member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) have make very clear , that decarbonisation must not mean de - industrialisation . discussion regard the transformation of Port Talbot have continue at pace over recent week , involve the company , the workforce and the Welsh Government . we be also in ongoing talk with British Steel in a similar vein . more widely , in our first day in office we host steel union leader to join we around the table and discuss our share commitment to achieve a sustainable , profitable UK steel industry . the Secretary of State and I also meet regularly with key industry stakeholder . we know that this be not easy , but we be determined to create a bright future for steel than the one we inherit . I thank Mr Speaker for grant the urgent question . I will ignore the Minister ' s political comment and focus on what be more important : the future of thousand of worker , in particular at the Scunthorpe work , part of which fall within my Brigg and Immingham constituency and where many hundred of my constituent work . there have be widespread medium report suggest that coke will stop be import from October , which would mean production would stop in Scunthorpe by Christmas . there be rumour concern the fact that employee will be give notice very soon . that be obviously create great anxiety among those directly employ by British Steel and those in the supply chain , which in northern Lincolnshire extend to many thousand of people and many business . I accept that much of this be medium speculation , but if you and your family be reliant on an income from British Steel or a business that support the sector , it be a very worrying time . many people who have work in the steel industry all their life , and people who know about the market for steel , have a genuine concern that turn off the blast furnace would see the end , or at least the beginning of the end , of steel manufacturing , certainly in Scunthorpe and possibly more widely . if we allow Scunthorpe ' s furnace to close , we will become more dependent on world market , and effectively the good outcome that can be deliver from that be Scunthorpe end up rolling steel produce in country across the world , which would leave this nation vulnerable to price and supply volatility . union have say that that would be devastating . Charlotte Brumpton - Childs , a GMB national officer , have be quote as say : " early closure of the blast furnace at Scunthorpe would be devastating for the community and workforce " — and so it would . " union have be assure throughout the process that the blast furnace operation would continue throughout the construction of an electric arc furnace . there have be no consultation over an early closure . " indeed , when the Minister visit Scunthorpe early this year , she say — accord to the Scunthorpe Telegraph , so it must be true — that the UK need to maintain capacity to produce primary steel . be that the Government ' s policy ? order . I be sorry , but the hon . Gentleman have exceed the two minute allot to he . I do not know whether he want to give we one final sentence . I will bring my remark to a conclusion , if I may , Madam Deputy Speaker , by say that if the UK be to maintain a domestic steel manufacturing capacity , the Government must accept that there will always be a burden on the taxpayer . I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . let I say a couple of thing in response . first , the hon . Gentleman talk about be political . it be not be political to say that the last Government allow the steel industry to decline ; it be a statement of fact . it be also a statement of fact to say that they leave a £ 22 billion black hole in our finance , and a statement of fact to say that the money they commit to Port Talbot come from the reserve that they have spend three time over . I be ashamed to tell the House that the £ 500 million be not real money : it be in the reserve that the last Government have spend three time over in the first three month of the year . in contrast , there will be real money for our investment in steel , draw from the national wealth fund . secondly , the hon . Gentleman be , of course , right in his analysis of the concern and unease that people be feel give the importance of these job , and about the worry they must be experience as a result of what they be read . all I can say to he be that we be talk regularly to the trade union , as he would expect we to , and to British Steel and the local community . I be sure he will understand that I can not comment on those commercially confidential conversation . he also make a point about virgin steel that we make regularly in opposition . we be look into how we can secure primary steelmaking in this country through our £ 2 . 5 billion investment in UK steel . I call the shadow Minister . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . " british steel be integral to growth and prosperity " . those be not my word , but the word of the now Prime Minister less than a year ago . " the drive for green steel must mean more job , not few . " again , those be not my word , but those of the now Secretary of State less than a year ago . during the election campaign , he say : " we can not … lose the ability to make primary steel . " but now we see , quite clearly , that Labour ' s plan for decarbonisation do in fact mean de - industrialisation , and that the drive for green steel will mean few job , not more . under the last Labour Government output fall by 47 % , and , similarly , the promise that this Government make just week ago to steelworker in Scunthorpe , Port Talbot and Teesside , and across the country , have be break . for week the Government have allow rumour and speculation about the future of British Steel to run rife , while thousand of worker question whether they will have job by Christmas . contrary to what the Minister have say , when we be in government we work to deliver a more sustainable , long - term future for the steel industry across the United Kingdom , include Wales , through our £ 500 million commitment to build an electric arc furnace in Port Talbot . now we risk be the only G7 economy without the ability to produce virgin steel . I ask the Minister the follow question . have British Steel indicate to the Government that it will halt its import of coke coal later this year ? if so , when do the Government become aware of that ? be they committed to see electric arc furnace in Scunthorpe ? what discussion have she have with the owner of British Steel about the possibility that it will switch to foreign import from China to fulfil its supply chain obligation here in the United Kingdom ? what meeting have she have with stakeholder , include Ben Houchen and the Welsh Government , regard the impact of future announcement on other steelwork across the United Kingdom , include on primary steel production ? community and supply chain across the United Kingdom need certainty from this Government . it be hard to know where to begin in respond to that . the previous Government allow steel to run down . the previous Government do not believe in an industrial strategy . the previous Government do not believe in boost our supply chain . the previous Government do not understand the importance of the steel industry to our national security and the community we serve across the country . this government do understand the importance of steel : that be why we be commit £ 2 . 5 billion from the national wealth fund , on top of the £ 500 million set aside for Port Talbot , and we will develop a strategy that enable the steel industry to grow . the shadow Minister know that I can not comment on commercial and confidential conversation that we be have . I can reassure he , however , that we be talk regularly with British Steel , that we be talk regularly with Tata , that we be in deep negotiation with they , that we be talk with the local community , that we be involve with the trade union — something that the previous Government do not believe in but suddenly seem to think important — and that we will get the good deal for worker and for the steel industry . it be a shame that we be not in government five year ago , because we be where we be with some of these conversation . the way the previous Government approach industry be to wait for thing to get so dire that they have to spend million of pound of public money try to booster something , whereas our approach be to build the industry up and put the right lever in place , and we will see success that way . President Biden have just veto the foreign acquisition of US Steel , because he understand that it be vital to have sovereign capability in ensure the manufacture of virgin steel . the reality be that at the end of the last Parliament we be unable to establish clarity around that objective from the last government . can the Minister tell the House today whether it be the policy of this government to seek to ensure that this country carry on with its ability to make virgin steel ? I thank my right hon . friend for his important question . we believe very firmly that a successful steel industry be critical to a vibrant and secure future . crude steel production in the UK have decline by over 40 % since 2010 ; that be a great shame , and we will be try to reverse it . Virgin steel be incredibly important , which be why we have the £ 2 . 5 billion fund . we be look at direct reduce iron production and other possibility for the UK . we be work on it at pace , and I be happy to talk far about our thought . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the steel industry have be leave in a mess after year of mismanagement . the abandonment of the industrial strategy by the previous Government have be a disaster right across our economy , but nowhere more so than in strategic heavy industry such as steel , which face many complex and interconnected challenge . we can all agree on the vital importance of steel production , whether that be in term of national security or of provide the material that we need for a green economy . it be equally clear that the steel industry need to be support to move towards green method of production and a more sustainable footing , while ensure that job be protect . the sector desperately need the certainty of a new industrial strategy . can the Minister give a clear timeline for exactly when we will see that industrial strategy ? can she confirm that when the Industrial Strategy Council be reboot , it will be place on a statutory footing through legislation so that it be properly empower to support our industry in the long term ? I thank the hon . Lady for a very sensible and thoughtful list of question . we will be put the Industrial Strategy Council on a statutory footing , which be important . the point she make about decarbonisation and support for the industry be really important . the previous Government support the aim of deal with the climate crisis and the need for decarbonisation , but they do not put in place any strategy to help anybody do anything on that front . we need a proper industrial strategy and , alongside that , a proper industrial decarbonisation strategy . how will our heavy industry decarbonise in a way that do not de - industrialise and do not mean that they shut up shop and go elsewhere ? how will we make sure that we enable all these industry to thrive ? the hon . Lady be right to say that it be not just about the steel industry . we be look at a much broad range of industry by sector and by geography , to work out the good way to get this do in a way that protect job and protect our industry . steel be a strategically important industry for this country , as my hon . friend have make very clear , and I welcome her commitment that decarbonisation must not mean de - industrialisation . we must avoid the mistake of the past . one of the mistake make by the previous Government be the delay in develop grid capacity and grid connection . how be this Government work with British Steel and Port Talbot to make sure that the grid capacity and connection be in place to enable electric arc furnace production to be start as soon as possible ? my hon . friend have hit the nail on the head , as I would expect he to . we face many challenge , but the grid be at the heart and soul of so many of they . when we meet industry representative in opposition , it be top of the list for everybody , and my hon . friend know that many company be say to we , " we ' ve be tell we can ' t get a grid connection until the late 2030 . " this issue be a priority for we , and we be tackle it and work at pace . we have a whole range of policy to speed up the grid connection , to prioritise what we deal with first , and to work with the company involve to make sure that we be go at pace . steel be incredibly crucial , particularly in Scunthorpe , and we have to get it right . in order for most plant in the United Kingdom to make virgin steel , they need to be able to bring in coke coal . the Labour Government ' s policy be to ban bringing in coke coal , which mean that thousand of job will be lose . what be the Minister go to do to reverse that decision so that job can be save ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question . as I say , we be look at DRI and other way of make virgin steel that mean we can both — [ interruption . ] I be happy to have further conversation with the shadow Minister , rather than shout across the House at each other . I be happy to have conversation about how we can make sure that we both retain virgin steel production and adhere to our climate commitment . the steel industry be a cornerstone of the south Wales economy as a whole , and the Minister will know that there be concern right across the Swansea bay community about these development , and I be visit the plant in Port Talbot tomorrow to hear more about they . will the Minister give we reassurance that the hard work she be do will continue to be hand in glove with the Welsh Government and local council ? they be work day in , day out to make sure that there be a future for the steel industry and all these community . I thank my hon . friend and welcome he to his place . I can absolutely reassure he that we be work hand in glove with the Welsh Government and local leader . I have talk to the Welsh Secretary , as have the Secretary of State , who be not able to stay for the whole of this UQ , because he have a meeting about steel . that be how important this issue be to we , and we will make sure that we keep those work relationship . I welcome conversation with my hon . friend and will meet any other local people whom he think we should be meet . I have some sympathy with the Minister ' s comment about the last government ' s record . of course , under previous conservative Governments , ten of thousand of job be lose in aluminium , oil refining and steel as a result of the obsession with decarbonisation and net zero . unfortunately , I do not think we will see a different approach from this Government . the Minister promise an industrial strategy , but can she assure we that there will be provision for steel to have a supply of coke coal produce in this country and that damaging and expensive decarbonisation requirement will not far detriment the steel industry ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question . of course , if we do not take measure to decarbonise and tackle the climate crisis , the cost to this country will be infinitely high . this be not a choice . [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Orpington ( Gareth Bacon ) disagree , but we need to make sure we can decarbonise in a way that support our industry to make that transition , which be exactly what we be do . the point of an industrial strategy be to lay out a plan so that the industry get the support it need , so that investor understand the plan and so that , by work together , we can make sure we decarbonise . the Government be support that where we can and pull the lever we can . we be support the industry to do the opposite of what happen under the previous Government , which be grow . it be a real pleasure to see you in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank the hon . member for Brigg and Immingham ( Martin Vickers ) for secure this important urgent question . Rotherham have a proud history of steelmaking , but I have be fight against government for the last 12 year for it to have a proud future . will the Minister commit to address the underlie issue , to make sure all Government procurement go to british steel - maker , and to address the punitive business rate and high energy cost that be hamper our development ? I thank my hon . friend for make those important point . our energy - intensive industry be hammer by energy cost , which be at the heart of this . although the previous Government provide relief , we need a long - term solution . we need to bring down those energy cost . that be why we be push for clean energy by 2030 , which will be cheap , and why we want to produce more energy in this country so that we be not reliant on Putin or affect by international event . I have talk about business rate , and my hon . friend be absolutely right that we need to look at that . government procurement be very important , so we be look at our supply chain and all the lever of Government to see what we can do proactively to make sure that , where we can , we be make , build and use in the UK . I do not think the Minister answer the question ask by the right hon . member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North ( Liam Byrne ) , so let I repeat it . do the Government consider the manufacture of primary steel to be a strategic domestic industry that must be protect , yes or no ? well , the previous Government do not . we have a £ 2 . 5 billion fund and , as I say , we be look at DRI to make virgin iron . to be clear , we be have to deal with a mess that we inherit . Virgin steel be important , and that be what we be look at . I be not go to say to the hon . Gentleman right now that this be what we be spend our £ 2 . 5 billion investment on , because this be be work on at pace . we will come back to the House as soon as we have something to announce . the defence industry manufacturing base be , of course , vital to this country , not least in the engineering job it provide . we know that steel be crucial to build armoured vehicle and ship , for instance . it be very important that we have a regular and guarantee supply of steel , and we want to see more UK steel use in defence manufacturing . I completely agree with my hon . friend , who have much expertise in this area . the Department be work closely with the Ministry of Defence and the Secretary of State for Defence to make sure we be maintain our defence . we be build as much as we can in the UK , with as many contract in the UK as we can . we be use the power of Government to deliver that . the hypocrisy of this debate be utterly extraordinary . everybody agree that steel be of strategic national importance , yet the obsession with net zero of both main party , lead by the Conservatives , be lead to the removal of our blast furnace by both British Steel and Tata . that obsession be kill our steel industry and steel job , and lead to our inability to produce primary steel . over 75 % of all new steel generating capacity in the world be in Asia , and over 90 % of that be produce in blast furnace . our obsession with net zero — Order . I be sure that the hon . Member be come to his question . give the obsession with net zero , will the Minister guarantee that if Tata be subsidise with more than £ 500 million to produce new electric arc furnace , the money will be link to the construction as oppose to Tata take the money early and then not build the furnace ? the hon . Gentleman talk about our obsession with decarbonisation and produce green steel , but we also have to go with the market . the market and big company be now say to we , " we want to buy green steel " . that be what they be demand and what we will produce . if we do not , we will not be sell it on the same basis . we will use the money we be invest through the national wealth fund to develop a steel strategy that will enable we to bring new entrant into the UK , which the previous Government do not try to do , so that we can have a vibrant , competitive steel economy in the UK and create good , highly pay job in the green industry of the future . if we fall behind , other will come before we and take our job . everyone agree that steel be a crucial strategic foundational industry for this country , but it suffer from very narrow margin . it be one of the least profitable sector of all . in this country , we suffer from a real cost disadvantage because of energy price . other country , such as France and Germany , have much low energy cost . they have a lot of nuclear , which meet net zero requirement . do the Minister agree that underline the importance of why this country urgently need an energy strategy ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we need to ensure we be produce cheap , clean energy in this country . as he rightly say , that mean nuclear , as well as solar , wind , offshore wind and everything else in our armoury . this Government have be unbelievably proactive , with the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero end the ban on onshore wind and agree to some of the solar panel installation we need . we have an enormously successful contract for difference round that will allow float offshore wind and other type of energy , and we be talk in detail about where we will take nuclear . together , all those thing mean that the country will have low energy cost , that we can be more competitive and that our industry can thrive . the Minister be ask a question by the right hon . member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North ( Liam Byrne ) , which be repeat by my hon . friend the Member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) , about whether this Government will commit to virgin steel making in the UK . at the third time of ask , will she commit to what the Secretary of State commit to before the general election ? yes or no ? I welcome the right hon . member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) to his place . as I have make clear , we have be land with an inheritance in which steel have decline by 40 % and we be in very late - stage negotiation in Scunthorpe and Port Talbot . we be deal with the consequence of that , which the previous Government fail to do . we will be put a £ 2 . 5 billion investment into steel , and we be work at pace look at DRI , which produce virgin steel , and at other option . we be look at how we can introduce competition and new entrant into the market . we will work a lot fast and hard than the previous Government , and we will ensure that the steel industry thrive . the global steel industry be invest many billion of pound in new green technology that be more productive than current steel technology . do my hon . friend agree that our plan for steel will allow we to attract that private sector investment here , in great contrast to the previous Government ' s policy that see our steel industry decline to a size small than that of Belgium ? my hon . friend , who be an expert in this area and with whom I have talk many time , will know that I agree with he . we need to introduce new entrant into the market , to stimulate the market and to encourage competition . the previous Government have a hand - off approach until an industry be about to collapse , and then they suddenly have to intervene with hundred of thousand of pound of taxpayer ' money . that be completely the wrong approach . as it turn out , the hundred of thousand of pound of taxpayer ' money that the Government put aside for Port Talbot come out of their reserve , which they spend three time over and be not real money . this will be real money . we will develop a proper steel strategy , and I very much look forward to work with my hon . friend on devise it . I thank the Minister for her answer . whether we like it or not , we have to deal with the reality before we . she may be aware that KME Steelworks in Lisburn have reduce cost and its carbon footprint by introduce a new , on - site nitrogen generation system . what financial aid be available to other company to help to meet their environmental goal when they be face cost like never before and there be pressure on the industry ? I thank the hon . member for that question . we need to be technology agnostic and look at what the new industry , the new development and the new research be tell we . we be do that , which mean some company take risk , with the Government need to intervene when we see a new market in need of support . we will have that approach in Government . we be technology agnostic — we need to look at what will work , what will make our country thrive , and also what other country be do . the previous Government ' s plan for steel be to pay half a billion pound to Tata Steel to not make any steel for year , while place thousand of highly pay and highly skilled worker at risk of redundancy with no guarantee of job in the future . can the Minister reassure I that she be take step to secure the future of our strategic industry ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . steel be an incredibly important strategic industry for the UK and it will be save under this Government from the decline that we see under the previous Government . the £ 2 . 5 billion that we be invest alongside the £ 500 million for Port Talbot will ensure that our industry thrive . we be work closely with industry , the union and local community , and we will work with our regional metro mayor and other , to make sure that we have the right industry in the right place and that we see success where previously we have see decline . business of the House may I take this opportunity , Madam Deputy Speaker , to congratulate you on your elevation to the Chair and to welcome you to your place ? will the Leader of the House give we the business for next week ? the business for the week commence 9 September be as follow : Monday 9 September — consideration of a motion to approve the Russia ( Sanctions ) ( EU Exit ) ( Amendment ) ( no . 3 ) Regulations 2024 , follow by consideration of a motion to approve the Syria ( Sanctions ) ( EU Exit ) ( Amendment ) ( no . 2 ) Regulations 2024 , follow by consideration of a motion to approve the draft renewable Transport Fuel Obligations ( sustainable Aviation Fuel ) Order 2024 , follow by consideration of a motion to approve the draft Human Medicines ( Amendments relate to Naloxone and Transfers of Functions ) Regulations 2024 . Tuesday 10 September — debate on a motion relate to the Social Fund Winter Fuel Payment Regulations 2024 , follow by Opposition day ( 1st allotted day , first half ) . debate on a motion in the name of the official Opposition — subject to be announce . Wednesday 11 September — general debate on build safety and resilience . Thursday 12 September — general debate on matter to be raise before the forthcoming Adjournment . the House will rise for the conference recess at the conclusion of business on Thursday 12 September and return on Monday 7 October . member may also wish to know that , subject to the progress of business , the House will rise for the short November recess at the close of business on Wednesday 6 November and return on Monday 11 November ; rise for the Christmas recess at the close of business on Thursday 19 December and return on Monday 6 January 2025 ; rise for the February recess at the close of business on Thursday 13 February and return on Monday 24 February ; rise for the Easter recess at the close of business on Tuesday 8 April and return on Tuesday 22 April ; rise for the early May bank holiday at the close of business on Thursday 1 May and return on Tuesday 6 May ; rise for the Whitsun recess at the close of business on Thursday 22 May and return on Monday 2 June ; and rise for the summer recess at the close of business on Tuesday 22 July . a warm welcome back to everyone follow the summer recess . I thank the Leader of the House for set out those recess date . that will make she popular with everybody across the House . she have just save I from book a flight that I would have have to cancel , so I be personally very grateful to she . I also thank the Leader of the House for confirm a debate on build safety . I know that the whole House send our heartfelt sympathy to the victim of the Grenfell disaster and their family . I have personally hear harrowing testimony directly from survivor who lose love one . what they experience be truly horrific . we must ensure that it never happen again , and that those responsible , include the cladding manufacturer who lie and cover up evidence , suffer the consequence , include criminal sanction . government must never again ignore safety warning , as happen over a period of decade . like many mp , I have be contact by constituent — [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) be clearly be contact by constituent as we speak . my constituent be desperate with worry about Labour ' s plan removal of the winter fuel payment from almost all pensioner . I be glad that there will a debate and a vote on that next Tuesday . labour Back Benchers may be less glad at the prospect of be whip to vote to remove winter fuel payment from pensioner on less than half the minimum wage . under the proposal , 84 % of pensioner in poverty will lose the winter fuel payment . be that Labour Members ' idea of a Government of service — leave pensioner in poverty shivering at wintertime ? yesterday , the Prime Minister refuse to explain why he be choose to fund huge pay rise for train driver and other state sector worker while slash benefit for impoverished pensioner . that be not the kind of change that Labour voter think they would get from a Labour Government , be it ? the Prime Minister also refuse to say yesterday how much less energy support an 80 - year - old on just £ 13 , 000 a year would receive this winter , compare with last . perhaps he do not know the answer . perhaps he do not care . will the Leader of the House confirm that the answer be that an 80 - year - old on £ 13 , 000 a year will receive £ 600 less energy support this year ? one pensioner write to I say : " the allowance mean I could turn the heating on . now I fear hypothermia during the come winter month " . no wonder the public oppose this policy by a margin of two to one . several Labour Members agree , and have already sign a motion condemn it and will , presumably , vote against it . I hope that all decent Labour mp do the same , but will the Leader of the House confirm whether , if they do , they will lose the Whip , like their rebellious colleague last July ? at this rate , it will not just be pensioner ' heating go by Christmas ; it will be labour ' s majority as well . I call on the Leader of the House to arrange a debate on ethic and integrity in the Government . the independent civil service commissioner — a former Labour MP — have have to initiate an inquiry into improper appointment by this Government . a " Government of service " ? it turn out they mean service to their crony and donor . it be just wrong to stuff party donor and crony into what be suppose to be impartial civil service position . can member imagine the howl of protest if the previous Government have do that ? [ laughter . ] to the civil service ? no . the Times report that the Chancellor do not disclose to her permanent secretary the fact that she have appoint a Labour party donor to a senior civil service position , which would be a breach of the ministerial code . will the Leader of the House tell we whether the Times report be true ? we have even see a Labour party donor , Lord Alli , receive a Downing Street pass for no apparent reason — other than be a donor , of course . who give he that pass ? be it the Prime Minister , whose clothe Lord Alli apparently pay for ? that be extraordinary . have anyone else here have a donor pay for their clothe ? I certainly have not . or maybe Sue Gray issue the pass , perhaps forget to declare that Lord Alli also contribute to her son ' s election campaign . will the Government now come clean and disclose all the politically affiliate appointment that they have make to the civil service ? will they confirm whether the conflict be disclose , as require by the ministerial code ? will they provide a list of all pass to Government building issue to anyone other than Ministers , civil servant and special adviser ? I strongly suspect that this self - proclaim Government of service will not admit to any of those thing , so later today I will write to the adviser on ministerial interest and the civil service commissioner , ask that they investigate independently these important question . a lot have happen this summer — a lot have go down , as they say — but the main thing that have go down be the Government ' s approval rating . just last week , More in Common find that the Prime Minister ' s approval rating have plummet by 27 percentage point in a matter of a few week , plumb a new low of minus 16 % . it turn out that parade around in £ 16 , 000 - worth of expensive suit pay for by Lord Alli , subvert civil service independence by stuff the service with crony and donor , and strip impoverished pensioner of their benefit be not that popular . even the Leader of the House will now have to admit the truth : this have be an exceptionally poor start to government . I , too , welcome everybody back for the new term . I know that my announce the recess date would be the big news of this morning . I be pleased to be able to help everybody with their family and holiday arrangement . I thank the House staff who have work away to ensure that many new colleague now have their own office in this place ; I congratulate our olympic and Paralympic athlete , who have do our country proud in this golden summer of sport ; and I thank the police and the criminal justice system for how quickly they curtail the thuggery and needless rioting in some of our town and city over the summer . I welcome the publication of the second report of the Grenfell inquiry . the finding be devastating — particularly the statement that the death of the 72 victim be completely preventable . now , justice and accountability will follow . the report raise some profound challenge for build safety regulation and recourse for resident and lease - holder — something with which I be very familiar in my constituency . we have make time for a first debate on build safety next week , and further time will be make available . the Government will come to Parliament with their full response and action plan in due course . we have have a big first week back , deliver on our pack legislative agenda for change . we have take our first step to bring our railway into public ownership and enhance fiscal responsibility — the bedrock of economic stability — to ensure that the Truss mini - Budget can never happen again ; the Second reading of the great british Energy Bill begin the drive to low bill and increase energy independence ; and today we introduce the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill to clean up our waterway and make water company accountable , and the House of Lords ( Hereditary Peers ) Bill will begin to honour our commitment to constitutional reform . this be a Government of service , deliver on our manifesto . as part of the change that people vote for , we have have to clean up the mess leave to we by the Conservatives and take the difficult decision that they duck . we have a £ 22 billion black hole that be cover up from the british people and from the spending watchdog . we have full prison , and that clog up the criminal justice system . thankfully , we have already begin to act before we have to take swift action to lock up rioter and thug over the summer . on the previous Government ' s watch , there be an asylum overspend of nearly £ 7 billion , shoplifting be effectively decriminalise , crippling strike cost the country dear , and unresolved pay award sit on Ministers ' desk . the right hon . Gentleman might want to give we a lecture , but only two year ago , we see what happen when massive , unfunded spending commitment be make against the advice of Treasury expert and in the face of what be good for our financial institution : the market lose all confidence , the price of government borrowing soar , interest rate hike and inflation get out of control . that be two year ago under Liz Truss , whom the right hon . Gentleman back for leader . nothing damage the real income of ordinary people , include pensioner , more than an economy crash — a crash cause by his Government ' s recklessness . have he learn nothing ? that be his party ' s approach , but this Government will fix the foundation and restore economic stability . the legacy that the Conservatives have leave we mean that we have have to make some really difficult decision — decision that we do not want to make , like means - test the winter fuel payment — but we be do all we can to support pensioner this winter . we be protect the triple lock , which mean that the state pension will go up by £ 900 this year — it be likely to rise by several hundred pound next year — and the warm home discount , which be worth £ 150 . we be also extend the household support fund and have a huge campaign to get eligible pensioner on to pension credit . yes , we have schedule a vote on the winter fuel payment next week , because we be not afraid to have the debate about how we get to where we be . that vote would not have happen under the conservative party , but we respect Parliament and do thing properly . the right hon . Gentleman talk about the pay award for our hard - work public servant . those pay award be sit on the desk of Conservative Ministers , who know that they would be honour , but do not allocate the fund for that . frankly , we will take no lesson on clean up politic from the conservative party — the party that partie in Downing Street while the rest of the country be lock down . he know that we all strive to get the good talent into Government , which be why there be a policy of " exception " appointment . of the 80 , 000 appointment to the civil service under the previous Government , do he know how many be make under that regime ? it be 9 , 000 . we have a series of by - election in the last Parliament because of member of his party . I refer he to Hansard to read a speech I give that include a list of all the reason for those by - election ; it make for pretty horrifying reading . the Conservatives have go from be the party of government to be the party that give up on govern . they would have do well to spend the summer reflect on why they lose so badly , instead of try to tell we that we have never have it so good . the one poll rating that the right hon . Gentleman should be focus on be the one that say that the public really do not care who the next leader of the conservative party be . I welcome my right hon . friend to the Dispatch Box and congratulate she on the wonderful job she be do in government . I be very concerned that Post Office Ltd plan to close the post office counter in morrison on Holderness Road in east Hull . many constituent have contact I , and a petition on the subject have gather , I think , 350 signature in the last two day . be the Leader of the House prepare to allow a debate on the subject in Government time ? this issue affect member from across the House and across the party , and most member would accept that it be about time that Post Office Ltd start to put people before profit . I thank my hon . friend for that excellent question . I be very familiar with that issue , as Post Office Ltd have also close the historic Spring Gardens post office in Manchester city centre . I think it would get wide support if he be to apply for an Adjournment debate and , hopefully , get a petition debate because the future of our Crown post office be an important matter to the House . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker ; it be very good to see you in your place . I thank the Leader of the House for announce the forthcoming business , and I welcome everybody back to this place follow summer recess . may I also associate myself and the Liberal Democrats with everything that have be say this morning about the Grenfell tragedy ? energy bill be set to rise again this winter . follow the Government ' s announcement that they will mean - test winter fuel payment , Age UK have estimate that 2 million pensioner will struggle to pay their bill . many pensioner in Bath be worried sick that they will not be able to heat their home this winter . many of they be include in the 1 million pensioner who will just miss out . we Liberal Democrats acknowledge and recognise that the last Conservative Government leave the country ' s finance in a mess , but pensioner should not be pay the price for the Conservatives ' incompetence . politic be about choice . push those cut through when measure to mitigate their impact will come in only in April 2025 be just not the right way to go about it . I have hear from two constituent who live in a housing association flat in a list georgian building with poor insulation . they get no support with their bill and have no mean of insulate their home . insulate home and pension rise must come before we cut the winter fuel allowance . I hope that the Government will listen to our side of the argument . in the light of the Government ' s plan to take the support away , will the Minister of State make a statement about the pace of home insulation measure , which would make a long - term difference in reduce bill ? as I say , the winter fuel allowance should not be put away before we have measure to mitigate the impact . I welcome the hon . Lady back to this place and thank she for her thoughtful comment . she be aware , I be sure , of the woeful inheritance that we have be try to deal with . this be not a situation that we want to find ourselves in . it mean that we have have to take some difficult decision , include on mean - test the winter fuel payment this winter . I hear what she say , but the protection of the triple lock , to which the Government be commit , mean that this year the state pension be worth £ 900 more than last year , and it be set to rise far in subsequent year . that will raise the value of the state pension over the course of this Parliament , not just in cash term but in real term . we be bring in the warm home discount for the 3 million most vulnerable property , and extend the household support fund . we have have a huge campaign this week to get all eligible pensioner on to pension credit — that be something that we want to do . the hon . Lady be right to say that , in the end , we must reduce the demand on people of their bill . that be why we have ambitious home insulation plan , and I be sure that the Secretary of State will come to the House to talk about they . we be roar ahead with our plan for energy independence in order to make we a clean - energy super - power free from the global market in gas and fossil fuel , which will keep people ' s bill low for long . that be all part of our plan . before I call anyone else , member will be aware that over 50 people want to ask a question , so please keep question short . I call Jo White . like my right hon . friend , my constituent spend hour on Saturday queue to purchase oasis ticket . he get two at the hyper - inflate price of £ 800 , ticket that be originally on sale for £ 150 each . lengthy queue put people under significant pressure to purchase ticket and potentially make rash financial decision that they may later regret . the insurance industry be require to provide a 14 - day cool - off period to give people space for reflection . will the Minister consider widen the forthcoming consumer protection Bill to include such a clause deal with dynamic pricing ticket sale ? I know that my hon . friend speak for many million , myself include , who over the weekend share the experience of spend hour in a queue — a very british thing that we like to do — only to find that the ticket we be able to get come at a hugely inflate price . I be pleased that Oasis have now announce further date , and that there will be a non - queue system and a fix price for those ticket , but she be absolutely right . this Government be commit to put fan back at the heart of music , which be why we will have a consultation on secondary ticket pricing and ticket tout this autumn . the Culture Secretary have make it clear that , as part of that consultation , we will look at the issue of technology as it relate to queue system and the dynamic ticket pricing that my hon . friend have talk about . the Leader of the House understand more than most the value of the british film and high - end tv industry to our economy and to job . she will know that , in this year ' s spring Budget , the previous Government introduce tax credit for UK independent film and tax relief for visual effect cost . I be a bit worried , as be the sector , because the Leader of the House ' s party do not support the finance Bill that introduce those measure . could we have a debate about the new Government ' s commitment to our world - lead creative industry , during which they would be able to restate their commitment to those much - need tax incentive for growth and the timescale for their implementation ? I thank the hon . Lady for that excellent question . she have long pursue these issue as the former Chair of the Select Committee on Culture , Media and Sport ; I know she be stand again for that position , and I wish her good luck in that election , which I think take place next week . she be absolutely right : the tax credit system , which be introduce by the last Labour Government , have be vital to secure the film industry and other creative industry , the huge talent that we now have , and the support this bring to our economy and the wide creative economy . we have long be commit to those measure , but obviously , any future announcement will be for the Chancellor in the forthcoming Budget . I call Jon Trickett . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker — I do not quite catch you call I . may I say how delighted I be to see you ? you help I to establish my parliamentary office 20 year ago , and I be so proud to see you in the Chair . I also welcome my great right hon . friend to her position as Leader of the House . I be one of many member who represent mining community . miner provide power , light and heat to our country and help to create our wealth , but they do something else : they create a massive pension fund , which the conservative party sit on for 14 year . that party allow it to accumulate and rip off hundred of million of pound , leave miner and their widow in poverty on low pension . as the Leader of the House know , our manifesto promise justice for the mineworker ' pension scheme , especially the £ 1 billion that be in a reserve fund . can I encourage she to ensure there be an early statement or a debate on this matter ? that money would be very well receive in miner ' pocket , and those of their widow too . my hon . friend be a long - stand and powerful advocate for mining community in his constituency and beyond , and be absolutely right to say that we have a clear manifesto commitment to put this injustice right . I will ensure that the relevant Minister have hear his question and that he get an appropriate response , and I be sure we will have further announcement in due course . it be a delight , Madam Deputy Speaker , to serve under your benevolent stewardship . the House may know that I be not an advocate of unbridled , anarchic freedom . I know the harm man can do with unfettered free will . nevertheless , the ability to speak freely be the mark of a civilised , open society , which be why the last Government introduce a high education Bill in the light of wake tyranny . I be disappointed that the right hon . Lady , who I know be a diligent servant of this House , would allow such legislation to be rescind , yet the Government have say that that be exactly what they will do . they be go to reverse the advance we make , so will she allow a debate on free speech ? for George Orwell , as she may know , say : " if liberty mean anything at all it mean the right to tell people what they do not want to hear . " I thank the right hon . gentleman for that question . this government have be clear that , in support of our world - lead global university sector , we want to end the culture war that have ensue against our fantastic university . as the MP for two globally lead university , I know that that message and change of tone have be widely welcome in the sector . I be sure that , at Education question next week , he may want to raise the issue of the Bill . my constituent ' s daughter Lily Lucas die two year ago on Monday on Milton ward at Kewstoke hospital . lily ' s death be avoidable . follow the inquest , which rule that Cygnet breach eight out of nine of the regulation , Kewstoke be not safe and , as evidence , there be a lack of basic care . I welcome very much that the Secretary of State have make a clear commitment to address the issue regard mental health provision in England , but can I ask the Leader of the House for a debate in Government time on how private healthcare provider such as Cygnet be hold to account in order for our vulnerable young people like Lily to be safe in their care ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . I be really sorry to hear of Lily ' s death . she will know that mental health and suicide be one of the big challenge face our young people , and that be why this Government be absolutely committed to support mental health provision and to get it on parity of esteem with physical health provision , with all the extra support that be go into our school . she raise a really good question about private healthcare provider in this space , and she may want to raise it at Health question after the conference recess . tomorrow mark the start of the big river watch , when people be encourage to take part in a UK and Ireland - wide survey of their local river . river pollution and high phosphate level in river such as the Brue and the Parrett , which flow through my constituency of Glastonbury and Somerton on to the Somerset level and moor site of special scientific interest , have stop much - need house building . so can I ask the Leader of the House if we can have a debate in Government time on the health of our river , nutrient neutrality and the impact of river pollution ? I thank the hon . member for that question . I be absolutely delighted to point she to the fact that , with the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill in the other place , we be introduce today our first step in clean up our river . it be a groundbreaking Bill that will include criminal sanction as well as stop the bonus we have see in many of our water company . I know that a debate on the general topic that she talk about be one the whole House will want to take part in should she apply for such a debate . hospice provide a crucial role across the UK in support people at the end of their life and alleviate the pressure on our NHS . however , because of the cost of living crisis , cost be rise and fundraising be fall . it be simply not fair that access to hospice care be a postcode lottery in our country and it be high time that the funding model be change . so will the Leader of the House please grant time to debate this crucial issue ? I thank my hon . friend , who I know have be a doughty campaigner on health issue , issue around hospice funding and other issue over many year , and I thank she for bring those to this House . the Minister of State for Care have recently meet NHS England , and discussion have begin about how to reduce inequality and variation in access to and quality of palliative care and end - of - life care across England . funding issue , which I know be very important , will be consider as well and I be sure she would get a great deal of support for a general debate on hospice funding . on Monday the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government refuse to rule out change to council tax , and refuse to rule out the abolition of the 25 % discount for single person occupancy . I understand that this morning she have make announcement on what may happen with the right to buy . give that that be a major change of policy , and Mr Speaker have always request that major change of policy should be announce in this place rather than in the medium , will the Leader of the House arrange for the Secretary of State to make a statement on her proposal , so that we can hold she to account on they ? while I be on my foot , may I gently remind the Leader of the House that the pre - recess Adjournment debate should be entitle the Sir David Amess pre - recess Adjournment debate , as be agree cross - party ? I thank the hon . Gentleman . I be happy to put on record that we be grant the Sir David Amess debate next week , and I will ensure that business be amend to reflect that . as he will know , all Budget matter relate to tax and other issue be announce first to this House in a Budget , and we will be have a Budget on 30 October . I work hard across Government to ensure that big announcement be make first to this House , and that be why we have see a record number of government statement since we take office . e - bike and e - scooter be popular with many people , but in London Fields in my constituency I be work with resident and councillor because some be go very fast , and there be issue of safety and regulation . will my right hon . friend grant a debate in Government time on the regulation , safety and enforcement of e - bike across the country ? my hon . friend raise another important question , which I know have be raise in these session and elsewhere on a number of occasion . E - bike be fast move — excuse the pun ; they be not that fast moving , but these be fast move issue in the sense that they be new technology and new vehicle . I be sure that a debate on that issue would be widely support should she apply for one . in his 2023 report , the chief medical officer say that cold home and fuel poverty be directly link to excess winter death . my constituent be worried , and I be concerned that labour ' s policy to restrict the winter fuel allowance will lead to the unnecessary ill health and death of elderly people . will the Leader of the House arrange for a debate on the specific subject of the effect of Labour ' s removal of the winter fuel allowance from elderly people on their health and wellbeing ? as the hon . Lady will have hear , we will be have such a debate next Tuesday , and the Government have bring that forward to allow for a debate and a vote on those issue . I gently say that perhaps she might want to talk to colleague in her party about the woeful inheritance that we find , and the £ 22 billion black hole not for future year but in this year , which the Office for Budget Responsibility be appal that it do not know about . that have see high borrowing and excess spending , particularly on asylum , and we have to do something to fix those break foundation in - year to stabilise the economy . good public transport , especially bus , be important for so many thing in my constituency and the country , from access a gp to visit friend , get to college and go to work . the Labour and Co - operative Mayor of Cambridgeshire and Peterborough have just launch a consultation on take back control of our bus . despite public support for well bus , the franchising model and enhanced partnership model be still bureaucratic and difficult for community to engage with . will the Leader of the House join I in welcome our local consultation , and make time in the House for member to debate further improvement so that community can take control of our bus service ? I thank my hon . friend for that excellent question . he be right to make the point that the current bus franchising system be incredibly bureaucratic and lengthy . that be why in the King ' s Speech we announce a well bus Bill , which will come before the House and will significantly reduce the time and bureaucracy that such thing take . I hope that the Peterborough mayor will take time and ensure that that legislation be in place before he embark on the necessary take back control of bus in his area . since November 2021 , the custody suite at Newbury police station have be close , lead to great travel time and more time when police be not on the beat . can the Leader of the House allow Government time for a debate on the provision of custody suite across the UK and the impact of the closure under the last Conservative Government ? I thank the hon . member for raise that important matter . over the summer , with the act of thuggery and the disorder that we see in the riot , we find real problem in our criminal justice system . we have good people do good work , but a system creak at the seam . police custody suite be very much part of that challenge . we will have to do a lot of difficult work to get our criminal justice system fit for purpose so that we can quickly bring people to justice and ensure that those convict of crime be keep away from the public . may I join my right hon . friend in congratulate our Team GB Paralympians and Olympians on their success over the summer in Paris ? in particular , I congratulate Bryony Page , who train at Poole gymnastic and trampoline club in my constituency , on her gold medal in the woman ' s trampoline . all these athlete rely on local club , coach and volunteer along their journey . in the light of Team GB ' s success , may I ask for a debate on how we support grassroots sport to develop the next generation of champion ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate Bryony Page . I be sure the whole country remember that moment , watch the fantastic display she put on for the trampolining gold medal . it be , I think , the first we have ever win . support grassroots sport be a total priority for this Government , and we will continue to do all we can . my hon . friend might be aware that there be a debate this week in Westminster Hall on some of these issue , but Department for Culture , Media and Sport question be come up straight after the conference recess , too . five peaceful climate protester be serve clearly excessive jail sentence make under the last government ' s profoundly undemocratic Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 , with one give five year in jail . that be two year long than a man who plead guilty to violent disorder and assault an emergency service worker during the riot in Southport . the United Nations special rapporteur on environmental defender , Michel Forst , have make clear statement to the effect that the sentence violate the UK ' s legal obligation under the Aarhus convention . will the Leader of the House please make time for member to discuss the urgent need to repeal this repressive anti - protest law that fundamentally undermine the UK ' s obligation under international law ? what the hon . member describe be that in recent year we have see some action that go way beyond acceptable protest and that be highly disruptive to local people , to those try to get hospital , to those in need and to our wide economy . on the technical legal matter that she raise , she might want to know that justice question will be next week , and I be sure that the Secretary of State for Justice will be happy to answer her question . today , it be two year since the right hon . Liz Truss become the leader of the conservative party . she become the Prime Minister the following day . what happen over the follow 49 day crash — destroy — the economy and create misery for many million of family and business in the UK . can we have a debate in Government time to scrutinise those chaotic , disastrous decision that cause so much misery to people in our community , so that no Government in the future will ever make the same mistake ? I could not have put it well . I be sure that many other will want to make such point as the anniversary come about in the come couple of week , because it be really important that we learn the lesson from that disaster and do not allow history to repeat itself . what happen when the Government of the day make a huge amount of unfunded spending and tax - cut commitment with no idea of where the money will come from , and ignore the advice of Treasury and other expert , completely fly in the face of our much - value financial institution ? as my hon . friend recall , we see soar rate of government borrowing cost and interest rate have to be raise very quickly . it be mortgage payer , ordinary family and those on fix income who pay the heavy price when the Government of the day make such a reckless choice with the economy . in Leicestershire , we have fantastic optometrist and optician . will the Leader of the House ask the Prime Minister whether it be just glass that they need to give to get a full - access pass to no . 10 , or do they need to give suit as well ? this be a Government of service , and we be work hard to turn the page on an era of scandal and sleaze under the previous Government . we expect the very high standard of all those in government , which be why we quickly bring in measure such as raise standard and expectation for mps , raise standard and expectation for Ministers , be completely transparent about declaration , and ensure that all the proper process for appointment be follow at all time . we will continue to do that . the Government have state and rightly continue to state that prevention will protect our NHS and protect life . be cold at home can lead to stroke , heart attack , hypothermia , pneumonia and other such illness . will the Leader of the House encourage the Government to read the work of Professor Sir Michael Marmot and Sir Chris Whitty in this area so that we can take a public health approach to people be warm at home to mitigate the cost that could come without the right mitigation on winter fuel payment ? I thank my hon . friend for that question and for continually raise these important matter . the decision to means - test winter fuel payment be not one that any of we want to take . it be a decision that we have to take to balance the book . as we have just discuss , it be those on the low income who pay the heavy price when the economy crash and the real cost of living go through the roof . that be why deliver on living standard , get growth in our economy , deliver low energy bill and get energy independence be core to the Government ' s agenda . that be what we will see over the Parliament . local community in and around Port Isaac in my constituency have be leave angered and frustrate at the lack of consultation by the Marine Management Organisation relate to application for huge seaweed farm in their area . will the Leader of the House give we a debate in Government time about make sure that the Marine Management Organisation properly inform , involve and consult community when processing application for marine licence for seaweed farm ? the hon . member raise a really important issue about seaweed farm , which I do not know a lot about until recently . he will know that the Marine Management Organisation be require to consult local people . I know that he have be active in that consultation . I hope that the organisation listen to what he have say — it have a statutory obligation to do so — and that he can deal with the issue that his local community be worried about with the proliferation of seaweed farm in his area . if he continue not to make progress in that regard , I will ensure that the appropriate Minister get he a response . the Leader of the House will know that on the government Benches we value adult education and community learning , and we know that there be many path in education and skill , not just school . in Gravesham , the Tory - control Kent county council be propose to close a long - stand adult education centre , the Victoria centre , which have be at the heart of the community for year . could we please have a debate on the support that local council give to such community provision and how they should enhance it , not close it ? my hon . friend raise an important issue . in recent year , adult education be belittle and let down by the previous Government , and local government funding be cut to the bone . that be why so much adult education provision be be lose from our community . this government will try to ensure that education , include adult education , be once again at the forefront of national life . I be sure that she will want to raise this matter with the Secretary of State at Education question next week . be the Leader of the House concern that those who will suffer as a result of the Government ' s decision to cut the winter fuel allowance live in remote , rural location , in home that often be difficult to insulate and off - grid ? could we have a debate in Government time on how the Government ' s early priority will disproportionally impact those people live in the countryside in remote and rural location ? like many , I be furious that this Government have have to take these difficult decision , because the Government the right hon . Gentleman support over many year leave a huge gape hole in the public finance . have we not deal with that , it would have affect his constituent and leave those live in poverty and in home that be difficult to heat much bad off . he should reflect on that . under the Conservative Government , the home insulation scheme previously in existence be largely scrap , and they fail to take action to insulate new home and improve building regulation , so we will not take lecture from they . we have a hugely ambitious home insulation plan . as the right hon . Gentleman will know , the basic state pension be increase in real value over the course of this Parliament . living standard for everybody fall under his government for the first time in our history . we will ensure that they go up for people right across this country . I call Harpreet Uppal . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and as a fellow Yorkshire woman I welcome you to your place . on a recent walk around Huddersfield town centre , I find that tackle antisocial behaviour and retail theft be important priority for my constituent and small business . could the Leader of the House allow time for a debate on tackle those important issue ? my hon . friend will know that under the previous Government , retail crime be effectively decriminalise . those seek to shoplift , sometimes on an industrial scale and in a very organised fashion , be completely let off the hook . that be why we be commit to rectify that situation in our forthcoming criminal justice Bill , to tackle the scourge of retail crime . the last census show that the population of South Staffordshire grow by just 2 . 2 % over the previous decade , yet the Government think that the district need 14 % more house over the next decade . please could we have a debate in Government time on the methodology behind the Government ' s ludicrous housing target ? the hon . Gentleman ' s Government fail to meet the challenge of the housing crisis . this Government be unashamedly pro - house building , to make sure that we meet demand and everyone can live in a safe and secure home of the future . he will know that one of the way that we drive that forward be by have ambitious house building target . we make no apology about that . my right hon . friend will know of the important role of the Carlton Club community interest company in Whalley Range in my constituency , as well as across Manchester . it be not just a social club but an important venue that support grassroots music and art . the company that own the building have now threaten to end the CIC ' s use of the site . will the Leader of the House join I in call for the building owner to reconsider their decision , and will she provide Government time to debate the importance of social club and small venue such as the Carlton Club to our local community ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that important issue . I know how much the Carlton Club be value in Whalley Range and in Manchester . I be there recently at a very good 50th birthday party , which perhaps should stay private at this stage . I fully support his endeavour to keep this valuable asset alive . he will , I hope , know that the Government be commit to community ownership of such building and to empower community to keep they alive and run those building where that be in the interest of the community . I hope he will be successful in his endeavour . in his recent letter to local council , the Minister for Housing and Planning , the hon . Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) appear to kill off the previous Government ' s plan for Cambridge . will the Minister come to the House and make a statement on the urgent need for improved infrastructure link Cambridge to various community , include haverhill in my constituency , which desperately need a rail link to Cambridge ? the hon . Gentleman will know that Housing Ministers and the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government , my right hon . friend the Member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) have already give a number of statement to the House — and will continue to do so — on the national planning policy framework and our house building programme , which be ambitious and will be a challenge to deliver , but we be determined to do that . he will also know that in the King ' s Speech we announce a planning and infrastructure Bill , which will address some of these issue . strategic local plan will deliver for a place — not just home , but the infrastructure that area need . I thank the Leader of the House and the Government for their swift action to tackle the large bonus be pay to the boss of water company . my resident in Reading have suffer from appal problem with water pollution , both in the River Thames and the River Kennet ; from the disconnection of family home from the water supply ; from pothole create in local road ; and from a series of other problem . will the Leader of the House ensure that if we have a debate on water company , the mismanagement by senior leader at the top of the industry be include ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . I be delighted that today we be introduce the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill in the other place . it be a really important step on the way to clean up our waterway , make water boss and water company accountable , and stem the tide of , frankly , awful pollution and discharge into our river , lake and elsewhere . we be put in place the tough accountability action that have long be require to do that job . Wellington in my constituency , a town of 15 , 000 people , have have no post office for several year . the threat to post office be a concern share across the House . imagine the delight of the people of Wellington when they hear that a hub be be open by an organisation call the Post Office , with a Post Office logo on the outside , only to find later that it will not be provide any Post Office service . do the Leader of the House agree that that sound like something out of " Yes Minister " ? will she grant time for a debate on the roll - out of banking hub and the provision of postal service alongside they in town that do not have any post office ? as have already be raise in this session today , the provision of local post office service be a matter of wide interest across the House . I be sure that if the hon . Gentleman and other colleague put in for a debate , they would get a great deal of support . let we be honest : with the Post Office , we have see an organisation that have leave serious question about how it have be run and its governance . what we do not want , as a result , be our vital post office service disappear from our high street and town centre , so I will ensure the relevant Minister have hear his question . I join my right hon . friend in congratulate Team GB . a blind runner and his guide who live in Bingley , in my constituency , have win a medal at the Paralympic game , compete under the refugee flag . Junior and Donard be role model , show courage and resilience as well as fantastic sportsmanship , and we be very proud of they . may I ask my right hon . friend to make room , in Government time , for a debate on how we can support future Paralympians , include refugee who settle in this country ? I share my hon . friend ' s congratulation to Junior and Donard on their tremendous bronze medal at the Paralympics . I think we have all engage in the issue of athlete who compete under the refugee flag in both the Olympics and the Paralympics when they be essentially resident of this country . my hon . friend may wish to raise that during question to the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , which will take place just after the conference recess . stone have a large number of disabled resident who simply can not gain access to a railway station , and I know that the same problem exist in many other constituency throughout the country . may we have a debate about what can be do to ensure that disabled people have good access to railway station ? it be vital that we have a new scheme to replace the Access for all scheme that we use to have , so that we can serve our disabled resident . I think we have all be make especially aware of this issue over recent week , give the horrific story from Tanni Grey - Thompson of her recent endeavour on our transport network . I can assure the right hon . Gentleman that we be committed to address the matter , and that we be currently consider the good approach in respect of the Access for all programme . I know that a number of other member will be raise these issue , and I be sure that a Backbench Business debate , or something similar , would be widely subscribe to . home artificial nutrition awareness week take place in August . my constituent Victor Day be able to lead a normal life at home because he have a feeding tube and the benefit of artificial nutrition . will my right hon . friend join I in commend the work of the healthcare professional , home care service and product supplier , alongside the support of friend and family that allow Victor and many other receive home artificial nutrition to live their life outside a hospital setting , and may we have a debate about how we can help more people to leave hospital setting ? I pay my respect to Victor , and I thank my hon . friend for highlight an important matter of which many of we would not otherwise be aware , but for home artificial nutrition awareness week . the Government be absolutely committed to provide healthcare in the community , outside hospital , and innovation such as this be critical to that endeavour . one of my constituent be the sibling of a victim of the infected blood scandal , and he have ask I to raise the issue of access to the compensation scheme for the sibling of victim , as well as the lack of punitive damage in the propose scheme and the concern about the schedule for implementation of the proposal . might time be make available for we to debate these issue ? fortuitously , my right hon . friend the Paymaster General be sit beside I . as the hon . Gentleman may know , the Government work apace over the recess to meet our statutory deadline for set up the compensation scheme , and my right hon . friend have already make two statement on the matter during the three or four short week during which the House have sit since the election . I know that it be a personal commitment of his to ensure that those affected have justice and compensation , and I know that he have hear what the hon . Gentleman have say today . at an advice surgery that I hold recently in Moorends , I hear yet again about the peril of the 30 - minute rush to get a GP appointment . I hear the same desperation throughout my constituency . not only be the system not inclusive , but it be unfair . many people be commute at that time , or drop child off at school , and those who be unable to telephone must rely on other who can not always be there at 8 am . what action can my right hon . friend take to stop this anxious 30 - minute race ? all of we , and many of our constituent , be familiar with the 8 am scramble for a GP appointment . it be no way to access our primary healthcare system , which be why my right hon . friend the Health Secretary and the Government be commit to the creation of 40 , 000 more GP appointment each week over the current Parliament . my right hon . friend be dedicate a large amount of his time to deliver that , and I be sure he have hear what my hon . friend have say today . however , my hon . friend may wish to raise the matter again during Health question after the conference recess . let I first thank the Leader of the House for the correspondence follow my question about the cable corridor in my constituency , which be cause great concern to resident . I appreciate the quick response . will the Leader of the House ask the Cabinet Office to send a Minister to the House to make a statement on whether Sir Laurie Magnus be still the Prime Minister ' s special adviser on ministerial interest , and , if not , whether a new appointment timeline can be arrange , and to confirm that the Prime Minister will abide by any ruling on the part of that special adviser ? Sir Laurie Magnus be very much still the Government ' s adviser on such matter . it be not our intention to mess around and make political appointment of that kind . we will take this very seriously , much more seriously than the last Government , who — let we be honest — ignore many of the recommendation and finding of their own adviser in this regard . I can assure the hon . Gentleman that the Prime Minister take behaviour and standard extremely seriously , and have zero tolerance when misdemeanour be identify . I recently pay a visit to the William Harvey Hospital in my constituency , and see 19 patient be treat by staff in corridor . will the Leader of the House find time for a debate on overcrowding in hospital , and on what the Government be do to fix the broken nhs that the Conservatives have leave to the country ? my hon . friend have raise an important issue . we be all familiar with what be happen in our hospital , include our A & E department . my husband be an A & E doctor , and I hear these story on most evening at home . the waiting list , the wait time , the chronic understaffing and underfunding and the lack of support for our NHS have leave it on its knee , and one of the Health Secretary ' s first act be to resolve the junior doctor ' dispute so that strike action do not blight our attempt to deal with that . get waiting list down , which be go to be tough , and restore our NHS to a service on which people can rely be a key mission for this Government . order . Shorter answer will be appreciate . during the exchange that follow my urgent question about steel manufacturing early today , it be evident that the Minister be unable to give a detailed response in respect of , in particular , maintain the capacity to produce virgin steel in the UK . in view of the many unanswered question , will the Leader of the House arrange a debate , in Government time , on the future of the UK steel industry ? I congratulate the hon . gentleman on the granting of his urgent question . I can assure he that the Government be work apace to secure the future of british steel production , which be a key priority for we , and that when there be development , Ministers will come to the House and ensure that the House hear about they first . BTecs provide a vital route to high and further education for thousand of learner throughout the country , and it be welcome news that the Education Secretary have announce a pause and review of the ad hoc cancellation programme initiate by the last government , but may I gently remind my right hon . friend that college need to know now what qualification they can offer next September ? could she , through her office , arrange for a statement to be make by the Education Secretary , and for a general debate to take place in Government time so that we can all celebrate the BTec course that our young be people take in our constituency ? my hon . friend raise the important matter of BTecs and their future , which have also be raise with I as a constituency MP and , I be sure , with many other member . if answer be not find at Education question next week , I will ensure that the relevant Minister come to the House to provide they . there be many excellent military charity in this country , include Troop aid in my constituency . give their vital work , will the Leader of the House set aside Government time for we to debate what further support can be provide to they ? our military charity and armed force charity do immense work . Remembrance Sunday and the poppy appeal be often mark in this House with a debate or statement . I be sure that if the hon . Gentleman put in for one , it would be well receive . rise — order . we have 10 member still to speak and 10 minute leave . if member each keep their question to a sentence , I can try to squeeze they all in . community energy project such as Ynni Ogwen in my constituency already play a vital role in the energy mix , and with GB Energy we will see a huge increase in clean power project . will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on the important topic of community energy ? community energy project be vital to our clean energy superpower mission , and great British Energy , which will be debate this afternoon , be an important step towards that . I be sure that my hon . friend will wish to raise those matter then . there be 141 , 000 child live in kinship care in England and Wales . some 47 % of those child have special educational need and disability . will the Leader of the House ask a Minister in the Department for Education to make a statement on improve support for child in kinship care ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . kinship carer play a vital role and special educational need be vital in our mission to ensure opportunity for all . special educational need have be the poor relation for the last few year , and that be something that we be go to put right . we will have education question next week and I hope that he will ask a question then . I thank the Leader of the House for this opportunity to ask an important question that have be on the radar of Members who care about protect the freedom of religion or belief . I would like to turn the House ' s attention to Nicaragua , where since 2018 the regime of Daniel Ortega have unleash relentless attack on the catholic faithful . view they as the last hurdle of opposition in the country , they have systematically target religious leader , imprison bishop , priest and seminarian on baseless charge and force they into exile . the closure of catholic medium outlet , the confiscation of Church property and the suppression of religious education echo the dark day of history in communist country and the dictatorship of the past . will the Leader of the House join I in condemn such violation of the freedom of religion or belief ? will she ask the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to raise these important issue with its counterpart in Nicaragua ? as ever , the hon . Gentleman raise in this House the important issue of the freedom of religion or belief . I share his concern about the arbitrary detention of member of the Church in Nicaragua . we welcome the release of seven priest in August , but we be alarm by their expulsion from Nicaragua . what be happen there be unacceptable ; I thank the hon . gentleman for raise it on the Floor of the House . may I associate myself with the comment that have be make about freedom of religion ? I be here today to raise the matter of accessibility at Sandbach station . unfortunately , the Manchester platform can not be access by those with luggage , those with disability , those with buggy or those with bike . I join the call make early for a debate about station accessibility . so many people be raise the issue of station accessibility . my hon . friend raise important point about Sandbach station . if she join force with the right hon . member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) and apply to the Backbench Business Committee once its Chair be in place , I be sure that there will be a lot of support for a debate . the Turks Head pub in my constituency be once again in the running for the Campaign for Real Ale ' s pub of the year . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate it and wish it luck ? do she agree that pub and all small business play a vital role in our economy and community ? will she allow Government time for we to give due consideration to their importance ? as the Member of Parliament whose constituency have the most pub , I wholeheartedly share my hon . friend ' s support for his local pub in St Helens North . every time they be raise in this House , there be widespread support for our great british pub . any time he want a debate , I be sure he will get one . every night of the week , vulnerable people sleep outside in the rough in front of Southall community college , in the bin of the Havelock estate and in other corner of my constituency . indeed , rough sleeping in England have double since 2010 because of the policy of the last government , include a broken asylum system and a mental health system in crisis . will the Leader of the House allow time for a debate so that we can look at the multiple cause of rough sleeping and the potential solution , include take a cross - departmental approach to the issue ? my hon . friend raise an important matter . the Deputy Prime Minister have already set up and chair an inter - ministerial group work with mayor and council to end homelessness . my hon . friend will be aware that we will shortly bring forward our renter reform Bill , which will abolish section 21 no - fault eviction . there will be plenty of time to debate that and other matter in due course . council up and down the country be still face impossible financial decision . in my constituency , Leeds city council be close Knowle Manor , one of the last care home in the whole of Leeds . resident of Morley have make their feeling very clear ; over 3 , 000 have sign a petition to keep the care home open . do the Leader of the House agree that we need a debate on the introduction of neighbourhood health centre : organisation that bring together doctor , nurse , care worker , physio - therapist and other health professional ? I think Knowle Manor would be a prime candidate . I be really sorry to hear about the closure of my hon . friend ' s local care home . he be absolutely right . our commitment to neighbourhood health service be how we will begin to tackle these issue . it be a key part of the health mission of this Government to get our health and care service back on its foot . my constituency have experience extensive house building in the past decade . my constituent be very understanding of the need for new home , but their patience have be test again this week by horrible traffic — the result of the previous Government ' s haphazard approach to house building . will the Leader of the House allow a debate on our future house building plan to ensure that they be accompany by the necessary infrastructure and service ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we be unashamedly for house building , and we be unashamedly for deliver it through local strategic plan , with infrastructure and service at the heart of the house building programme in place such as Aylesbury and elsewhere . I be sure that debate on that issue will be forthcoming shortly . my constituent Michael Parry be currently fight pancreatic cancer . he have raise the issue with I on numerous occasion . will the Leader of the House give we a debate in Government time on screen for pancreatic and other high - mortality cancer ? I be sure that the thought of the whole House be with my hon . friend ' s constituent Michael during this difficult time . he be absolutely right that cancer patient be wait far too long for diagnosis and treatment ; that be why we will double the state - of - the - art MRI and CT scanner in the NHS . my hon . friend will be aware that Health question be come up after the conference recess . can we have a debate in Government time on veteran affair ? whether it be through access to health and housing , support for veteran ' child or veteran card be use as an acceptable form of ID for voting , can we have a debate about how we can make this country the good place in the world for a veteran to live ? my hon . friend raise an important matter . we have commit to legislate to establish an armed force commissioner to champion our armed force and improve their service to this country . that will be forthcoming soon . sixth - former at Belper school in my constituency tell I that they face inordinate wait to take a driving test . may I ask the Leader of the House to work with her Cabinet colleague to address this issue as part of the new Government ' s plan to get this great country back on the road to recovery ? I be sure the Transport Secretary will come to this House at some point to address drive test for young people , which I know be a real issue . we support young people be able to get the independence that they need through drive . we have transport question on my 50th birthday — I know I do not look old enough — which be 10 October , and I be sure my hon . friend will want to raise it then . that be a very early birthday present . we be go to get the last member in , so well do everybody . care leaver all too often face a postcode lottery of inconsistent support , lead to wide disparity in access vital service such as social housing , financial advice and mental health support . will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on the development of a national care leaver offer , so that all our care leaver can get the support they need and deserve ? care leaver really have have the poor end of the deal in recent year . they have poor outcome than other , and their life be more difficult as a result of have be in care , which be why we want to see a strategic approach . in the King ' s Speech , we announce a child ' s wellbee Bill , which will allow we to take forward some of the legislative change that we need to address this issue . I thank the Leader of the House for take everybody ' s question . Bill Presented House of Lords ( Hereditary Peers ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Pat McFadden , support by the Prime Minister , Secretary Angela Rayner , Nick Thomas - Symonds and Ellie Reeves , present a Bill to remove the remain connection between hereditary peerage and membership of the House of Lords ; to abolish the jurisdiction of the House of Lords in relation to claim to hereditary peerage ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Monday 9 September , and to be print ( Bill 7 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 7 - en ) . the Speaker ' s Absence Ordered , that the Speaker have leave of absence on Monday 9 September to attend the funeral of Monsignor Michael McKenna in Chorley . — ( Lucy Powell . ) great British Energy Bill Second read the reasoned amendment in the name of Claire Coutinho have be select . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . may I congratulate you on your elevation to your new role , Madam Deputy Speaker ? at the general election , the british people vote for change , and they vote for our party ' s promise of the first new national , publicly own energy generation company in our country for more than 75 year : great British Energy . today , with this Bill , we deliver . british public ownership be back at the heart of our energy system . to every right hon . and hon . member behind I , I say that it be thank to each and every one of their victory in their constituency that today we can start to create a lasting legacy for the country , which break from 14 year of failure — 14 year of leave Britain expose to fossil fuel market , which lead directly to the bad cost of living crisis and energy bill crisis in generation . will the Secretary of State give way ? not at the moment . [ interruption . ] the right hon . Gentleman need to calm down a little bit ; I know he get very angry . we have have 14 year of blind faith in free market and a refusal to have an industrial policy , which offshore clean energy job , and 14 year of a Government who be perfectly happy with state ownership of our energy system , but with one crucial overriding condition : that it would be state ownership by any country except Britain . that be the reality of what we inherit . we already have widespread state ownership of Britain ' s energy asset by other country — Denmark , Sweden , Norway and France — through their state - own company . indeed , the city of Munich own more of our offshore wind capacity than the British Government . follow the auction result I announce on Tuesday , the large two offshore wind project to win a contract will be build by Ø rste , a danish state - own company . I strongly welcome its investment , but the question before the House today — the question at the heart of this Bill — be simple : do we think there should be a british equivalent of state - own energy generation company such as Ø rste , Vattenfall , Statkraft and EDF invest in our infrastructure ? we have a simple proposition : if it be right for the Danes , the French , the Norwegians and the Swedes to own british energy asset , it be right for the british people to do so as well . that be why we fight the election on the crucial principle that the british people should have a right to own and benefit from our natural resource . to every Member of the House who be consider their vote on this Bill this afternoon , I urge they to vote for that principle . to those think about vote against the Bill , I ask they how they will defend to their constituent the idea that other country should own our national energy infrastructure , but Britain should not . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for give way . he be normally a fair man , but what he do not mention be the risible state of renewable energy when we take power in 2010 . it account for less than 7 % of electricity , and we increase the figure to nearly 50 % . we be a country that have lead the world in this area . it be the Conservatives who transform our energy system to remove coal from the system . I be sure I be just set up the Secretary of State , which I be happy to do , but what will state ownership do ? our system be arguably one of the most effective in the whole world at deliver green capacity , and have be the most successful in cut emission . what will state ownership do , other than simply put the state and its complicated mechanism into programme that need to be speed up , not slow down ? the right hon . Gentleman surprise I ; he be a brilliant set - up man , and he be welcome any time . I will now explain to he what state ownership will do . here be why it be the right idea for our time . it be the right idea for energy security , because great British Energy will invest in home - grow , clean energy that we control , and speed up its delivery . it be the right idea for job — this be the learning from all those other country I mention — because great British Energy will partner with the private sector to create job and make sure that we build the supply chain and job that the british people deserve . it be the right idea for create wealth for Britain . this be what I do not understand about the conservative party , because state - own company from other country be not invest in these asset as a charitable endeavour ; they be do so to generate wealth for their country — wealth that flow back to their taxpayer . state ownership be the right idea for create wealth for Britain , because great British Energy , through its investment , will help generate return for the taxpayer . to answer the right hon . Gentleman directly , it be right for energy security , it be right for job , and it be right for create wealth for our country . I will not support this Bill tonight . the Secretary of State claim that it will put the british people in ownership of the renewable electricity supply market , but that market be estimate be £ 50 billion a year . he be propose to invest £ 1 . 6 billion a year . can he not see the difference that £ 1 . 6 billion will make to the overall investment ? the infrastructure will still not be own by the british people . the right hon . Gentleman and I have a long history on these issue , which make I rather old . indeed , we use to spar about they 15 year ago . he be wrong about £ 1 . 6 billion ; it be £ 8 . 3 billion of investment over the Parliament — a significant sum . great British Energy will not become EDF overnight — of course not — but the point be that this Government believe in create a lasting , long - term legacy for Britain , which be what GB Energy will do . rise — I be go to make some more progress . let I go through what Great British Energy will do . first , it will invest in and own clean energy project , particularly lead - edge technology such as float offshore wind , by work with the private sector and take stake in the project it support . the truth be that we need to accelerate the deployment of wind , solar , tidal , hydrogen , carbon capture and nuclear , and we need to face the reality that frontier technology carry risk . that be why there be a particular role for the Government in help to de - risk project by invest in they in partnership with the private sector , and in do so capture value for Britain . GB Energy will invest across a range of clean energy technology , use its £ 8 . 3 billion capitalisation . the chair have be appoint by the Government , but the company will be able to move at pace with operational independence . I be delighted that J ü rgen Maier , who have a great record of achievement and be a champion of UK manufacturing and good job , have be appoint as start - up chair . I completely agree with the basis of my right hon . friend ' s argument for end the offshoring of job , energy asset and employment opportunity . almost all solar panel be currently source from China . Power Roll , a company in my constituency , have develop a lightweight , flexible and cost - effective solar module and be eager to establish its first gigafactory . do he agree that , to secure our energy future , great British Energy should be support and invest in innovative start - up such as Power Roll in east Durham ? my hon . friend be a brilliant champion of his constituency and these issue , and he be absolutely right that part of the challenge we face be to expand our supply chain in Britain . I be very interested in the example he give . the Secretary of State talk eloquently and powerfully about the physical investment come from this new measure . will he elaborate on some of the benefit to our workforce , particularly the training and development opportunity for young people through a wide range of apprenticeship , and the amazing multipli effect that will have for our economy ? my hon . friend anticipate my point about how we build the supply chain , and about the lesson we have learn from what state - own company in other country have do to help catalyse a supply chain of job and to work with the private sector . will my right hon . friend give way ? I will give way one more time before make some more progress . I be very grateful to my right hon . friend . we hear the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) suggest a few moment ago that thing be go wonderfully under the Conservative Government , but do my right hon . friend agree that the Climate Change Committee warn a few week ago that only a third of the emission reduction that we need to achieve the 2030 target be currently back by a credible plan ? be the reality not that we need a step change ? thank God we have a Labour Government to deliver it . my hon . friend be absolutely right , and it be part of what this Government have do . in less than two month , we have overturn the onshore wind ban , consent large amount of solar power and , on Tuesday , have the most successful renewable auction in british history . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not give way to the right hon . Gentleman again . we have hear quite enough from he . secondly — I know this be a concern of the Liberal Democrats and of other member on both side of the House — great British Energy will deliver our local power plan , work with local authority , combined authority and community to deliver the big expansion of support for community - own energy in history . clean energy be not just about large - scale infrastructure . if we look around the world , so many country have a lot to teach we . in Denmark , around half of wind capacity be citizen - own ; and in Germany , almost half of solar capacity be citizen - own . our local power plan will learn from other country . generate clean power , and embrace it as a way to generate a return for local people , to help tackle fuel poverty , to unleash the dynamism and resource of local community and to win the consent of local people , thousand of project across Britain be tap into that energy and enthusiasm . will my right hon . friend give way ? I will make a bit more progress . I have the chance to visit the Lawrence Weston turbine in Bristol , which member may know about . it be England ' s tall onshore wind turbine , and it be 100 % own by the local community , power at least 3 , 000 local home and reinveste revenue into local project . rise — I have catch the eye of an infrequent contributor to this House , so I will give way . I thank the Secretary of State for what he be put forward . it seem logical for the UK to manufacture this process , rather than other do it for we . the question for my constituent , I say respectfully to the Secretary of State , be , what will the price of energy be at the end ? a LucidTalk poll for National Energy Action evaluate the impact of rise energy price on household in Northern Ireland . it find that 41 % of household be spend more than 10 % of their income on their home energy cost . how can we make sure that my constituent , and indeed all our constituent , can have energy they can pay for ? the hon . member be absolutely right . this be a massive concern for all our constituent , and great British Energy be a crucial tool to bring down price for our constituent . the truth be that every member in this House have to make a judgment on this . do they believe that business as usual , stay on fossil fuel , will give we the energy security we need ? we discuss this in the House on Tuesday . the truth be that we have the bad cost of live crisis in generation because of our exposure to fossil fuel . we be see price rise again on 1 October , not because of government decision but because of our dependence on international gas market . the argument for clean energy 15 year ago be a climate argument ; it be now as much an energy security argument as a climate argument . rise — I be go to make a bit more progress . thirdly , great British Energy will work with industry to develop supply chain across the UK to boost energy independence and create good job . the reality be that the last government spectacularly underdelivere on the promise of create job in clean energy . it be true that british water be home to one of the large float offshore wind farm in the world : Kincardine , just 15 km off the coast of Aberdeen — [ interruption . ] the right hon . member for East Surrey ( Claire Coutinho ) nod , but where be it make ? its foundation be make in Spain and its turbine be instal in the Netherlands , and it be then simply tow into british water . how can that be right ? this Government be not neutral about where thing be make . we want the future make in Britain . clean energy be the economic and industrial opportunity of the 21st century , and the truth be that other country be seize this opportunity . Britain be be leave behind . the fact be extraordinary : Germany have almost twice as many renewable job per capita as Britain ; Sweden almost three time as many ; and denmark almost four time as many . that be the previous Government ' s legacy . what our friend and neighbour have realise be that a domestic national champion be a crucial tool to help deliver economic success . the success of the Danes , for example , can not be divorce from the role of Ø rste in help to make it happen . that be why great British Energy will work alongside our national wealth fund and the british job bonus , partner with industry , to build supply chain in every corner of the UK , deliver the next generation of good job , with strong trade union , and reindustrialise Britain . I congratulate the Secretary of State on his appointment . may I draw attention to the letter he write to Fintan Slye , the chair of National Grid ESO , in August , and the response he have give in his open letter to the industry , alongside a question about the cancellation of the offshore co - ordination support scheme , which be come up with viable alternative for well delivery of the Norwich to Tilbury project ? Mr Slye say that the plan the ESO will develop will be " a whole system spatial view of what be require to deliver a clean , secure , operable electricity system by 2030 . " do that include all the work that ESO have already do in its review of the Norwich to Tilbury project , which include many viable option that could speed up the process and make it more viable for the long term ? I look carefully at that issue before we make that decision . I have great respect for the hon . Gentleman , but we can not justify spend public money on a scheme that will not work and will not deliver for the british people , which be why we do not go ahead with the second phase . all the advice and all the evidence be that it just would not be value for money . I be glad that the hon . Gentleman draw attention to 2030 . for the first time in this country since the last Labour Government be in power , we be go to have a proper plan . we do not inherit a proper plan , and we need a proper plan to give certainty to industry . fourthly , great British Energy will support project development , lead project through their early stage to speed up delivery , while capture more value for the british people , in particular through our partnership with the Crown Estate , announce just two week into our period in Government . the partnership will co - ordinate planning , grid and lease for the seabed and , importantly , help speed up the roll - out of offshore wind and other technology . it have the potential to help leverage up to £ 60 billion of private investment and deliver up to 30 GW of offshore wind lease . the truth be we have huge potential as a country : the chance for offshore wind to drive investment in coastal area from Cornwall to Grimsby , opportunity for port from west Wales to north of Scotland to lead the world in the industry of the future , and opportunity for supply chain company all over the world . that be what this Bill be about . I be terribly excited about the ambition of the Labour Government for GB Energy . in my constituency , Blyth port be thrive . we have Energy Central on the Blyth estuary , Catapult UK , the offshore energy research centre , and Lynemouth power , a biomass power station . may I invite the Secretary of State to see the issue in my constituency for himself , and show business and resident how they can participate in the fantastic opportunity government be offer ? my hon . friend be a great champion for his area and he be right . I be sure he reflect the feeling of every right hon . and hon . member , whatever side of the House they be on , that there be huge opportunity in this sector . we intend to exploit they . I look forward to see his constituency . rise — I will make a bit more progress . I have set out our case — a case that the british people overwhelmingly support . accord to post - election polling by More in Common , great British Energy be support by an overwhelming 73 % of voter and oppose by just 8 % . it appear from the Conservative ' s reason amendment — so - call — that Conservative Members will vote against the Bill today . if they do that , they will do something remarkable : they will go one step far than refuse to listen to the people who do not vote for they by refuse to listen to the people who do vote for they — quite a remarkable feat by an opposition — because great British Energy be support not just by Labour voter , but by conservative voter by a majority of four to one — 56 % to 14 % . rise — I will make a bit more progress . [ interruption . ] conservative member be still in the " the show be great but the audience be poor " stage of Opposition . let I give they some advice — they will get out of that over time , but they be in the early stage now . because I get my kick in strange way , for a bit of light entertainment , I have be read what the conservative party leadership candidate have be say . it be really interesting , honestly ; it be quite fun reading . [ interruption . ] yes , somebody have get to do it . the right hon . member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) say that people " will never vote for a party that they have stop take seriously . " well , that be true . he say they should be " give credit for see the error that we may make and correct they . " correct . the right hon . member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) — I believe the shadow Minister , the right hon . member for East Surrey ( Claire Coutinho ) , be the mastermind for her campaign — say it be no good " have the same policy argument from the last Parliament . " the shadow Minister should take those word to heart . I agree with those candidate that the conservative party need to move on . I be in a generous mood , Madam Deputy Speaker . I have be involve in leadership campaign , so I have some advice . I have a free idea for the not very famous five still leave in the Tory leadership competition : back an idea that the public support . back an idea that conservative voter support ; back an idea that Labour voter support ; back an idea that reform voter support — Reform member be not here . back an idea that Liberal Democrat voter support . they should move on from the argument of the last Parliament , show a bit of bravery — even break the Whip and stand out from the crowd . they should break from the past and back our Bill today . the Secretary of State know I share his passion and ambition to get to net zero . one big concern about GB Energy be that it will crowd out , rather than crowd in investment . will he enlarge on how he intend to crowd in investment into green energy ? I be very surprised by the Liberal Democrats say that . it be slightly " orange book " Liberal Democrats , if I may put it that way , for those old enough to remember . I say respectfully to the hon . Lady and all member of the House : look around the world at what be happen before our eye . there be catalytic public investment — public investment lever in private investment . the whole old fashioned , free market 1980 argument about crowd out turn out to be wrong . just look at what be happen in America . why be the money flow to the United States ? in part , because of the catalytic public investment . [ interruption . ] I can see Opposition Members be go to be slow learner . great British Energy be at the heart of our long - term plan to accelerate the transition to clean energy and ensure we be never at the mercy of volatile fossil fuel market again . it will speed up delivery , create good job and protect family finance , and we will reap the benefit for generation to come . I commend the Bill to the House . before I call the shadow Minister to the Dispatch Box , I remind hon . member that question to the Minister be take through the Chair , so they must make eye contact with the Chair and not the Minister . I beg to move an amendment to leave out from " that " to the end of the question , and insert : " this House , while recognise the need to cut household energy bill for family , accelerate private investment in energy infrastructure , and protect and create job in the energy industry across the UK , decline to give a second reading to the great british Energy Bill because great British Energy will not produce any energy , will not reduce household energy bill by £ 300 , do not compensate for the amount of investment in energy project that will be deter by the Government ' s plan to prematurely shut down the UK ' s oil and gas sector , and involve an unjustified use of taxpayer ' money at a time when the Government be withdraw the Winter Fuel Payment from 10 million pensioner as energy bill rise . " I welcome you to your place , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a pleasure to be back . I know the Secretary of State will have have a busy summer settle into Government , have the eagle - eyed civil service now screen all his comment and a hungry press pack on his tail about every promise he have make . he even slot in a trip to Brazil , a place very dear to my heart , but perhaps he should have spend a bit more time on the Bill . if the Bill do everything he and his team have promise , I will be impressed . let I remind the House what be on the record . if it save £ 300 off bill by 2030 , if every project it invest in be guarantee to turn a profit by 2030 , if it can get new innovative energy prototype off the ground and create 650 , 000 job , even I will be impress . but here be the rub : the Bill be four page long — there be barely anything in it . I do not want to oppose the Bill just for opposition ' s sake , but the Secretary of State have provide no detail on how the Bill will deliver any of his promise , let alone all of they . it be a four - page Bill in which he be ask for £ 8 billion of taxpayer ' money , while set out no investment plan , no figure for the energy that will be produce , no number for energy bill saving or carbon emission reduction , and not even a timeline . I doubt it can deliver any of the thing he have promise . he be ask for £ 8 billion of taxpayer ' money — a completely blank cheque — for an energy company that will not cut bill or turn a profit by 2030 . I will come back to those promise . rise — I will give way in a second . the Secretary of State be set up a new body when our energy sector be not short of state - run body . we have Ofgem , the National Energy System Operator , the Climate Change Committee , great British Nuclear and , of course , the UK Infrastructure Bank , with £ 22 billion to provide debt , equity and guarantee for infrastructure finance to tackle climate change , set up by the former Prime Minister . at this point , the taxpayer might well ask why they be cough up twice for programme that do the same thing . here be why . when I read the Bill , tiny as it be , it ring a bell and , lo and behold , it be a carbon copy of the Infrastructure Bank legislation , so why do the same thing again ? well , there be a few important omission and tweak . first , while the Infrastructure Bank legislation set out direction for governance by director and non - executive director , the Bill do no such thing . while the Infrastructure Bank legislation appoint an independent person to carry out a review of the effectiveness of the bank in deliver its objective , the Bill do no such thing . lastly , while the Infrastructure Bank legislation give special power to direct investment to the Treasury — to independent civil servant — the Bill give power to the Secretary of State , who , as far as I be aware , have no investment background and no financial training and whose only period in the private sector , if I have this right , be as a researcher at Channel 4 . my right hon . friend be absolutely right . the Bill set out huge power for the Secretary of State — he will be like the slim controller of the energy system , as he try to interfere . but he have a track record in such cluelessness — the 2030 decarbonisation target . " we need more ambition , " he say . we have therefore hope that the self - confess nerd would know how to do it , but we have the letter in August to Fintan Slye of the Electricity System Operator , which set out the fact that the Secretary of State do not have a clue about how to deliver 2030 decarbonisation . the answer from Fintan Slye , if he be not in such an impossible position , would have be short : " it can ' t be do . you need to do your homework . " I thank my right hon . friend for his intervention . it be always a pleasure to see he in the Chamber make excellent point . the question that I have be this : why have the Secretary of State set up a duplicate programme with no instruction for governance , independent review , investment plan or consumer saving that he can be judge by ? why should taxpayer ' money fund a similar entity when the only difference that I can discern be that it give the Secretary of State unchecked power ? what be it about the £ 8 billion of taxpayer money that he can direct without check or balance that first attract he to the idea of GB Energy ? these be fair and reasonable question for we as the Opposition to ask , and he must look to improve the governance in this Bill . let I turn to the promise that he make . the Prime Minister , the Chancellor , the Secretary of State and at least 50 Labour mp promise their constituent in the July election that GB Energy would save they £ 300 a year on their energy bill . they say it on their election literature , on social medium and in husting . they say it because they be tell to do so by the Secretary of State , but I listen very closely to his speech today and I do not hear he make a promise that GB Energy will save they £ 300 on their energy bill . in a debate just before the summer recess , the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , the hon . member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) , would not repeat the promise either . that be because they all know that it be not true . in fact , one of Labour ' s first act in government have be to take away up to £ 300 from 10 million pensioner this winter , include two third of pensioner in poverty . it take some nerve for the Labour party to say that it never want to do this , because the winter fuel payment be in the manifesto of the Secretary of State ' s party when he write it in 2010 . it be in there when he be leader in 2015 , it be in there in 2017 and in 2019 , but in 2024 it be omit . there be no mention at all for the first time in 14 year . I will give credit to the right hon . gentleman — something that I do not always do . when he be leader in 2015 , he put it in his manifesto that he would take the payment away from the top 5 % of pensioner . he will remember that . he have the courtesy of tell the public his plan , but , professional politician that he be , I suggest that he would have clock that it be not include this time round . he have be in politic for 30 year and would have know what that mean , so I hope that he can confirm today whether he have any conversation with the Prime Minister , the Chancellor or Morgan McSweeney before the manifesto come out . if so , he send out those labour candidate — all the people on the Benches behind he — with this false promise of the £ 300 energy saving when someone clearly know that they be go to take that amount away from million of pensioner this winter . my right hon . Friend refer to the letter that be send by the Secretary of State to Fintan Slye , the head of National Grid ESO and , curiously , there be nothing in the Secretary of State ' s letter that refer to the need to lower electricity price . the term " electricity price " do not appear in the letter and neither do the term " security of supply " . do she agree that those be the two great concern about rush the 2030 decarbonisation target ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend , and I will come on to that point . there will be a vote next week on the winter fuel payment — I think the Government have confirm that . everybody hear the Secretary of State speak today , so I say to those on the Opposition Benches that , if they want to break the Whip , if they want to stand out from the crowd , I be sure that they will have his encouragement . let we come back to those saving . the Secretary of State have promise bill saving by 2030 through GB Energy — I believe that be correct . the question be how . do he have any serious energy expert who think that that be possible with an investment of £ 8 billion over five year ? that be a drop in the ocean when it come to energy investment . it be a fraction of the amount of investment that he be deter from the private sector into clean energy with his plan to shut down the North sea . he talk about offshore wind , nuclear and hydrogen in his found statement , but none of those thing get build in five year . let we be honest , the likelihood of his plan bring any power online by 2030 be tiny . the idea that it will be enough to lower bill across household be , frankly , for the bird . when we ask his Department how much energy he want to enable through the Bill , his Department say that it would be look at in due course . that be just not good enough . the second promise be clean power by 2030 . GB Energy be suppose to be the silver bullet to reach the Secretary of State ' s target of a decarbonise grid by 2030 . we will come on to whether that be a good idea a bit later . to do that , he say that he need £ 28 billion a year . his Chief Secretary to the Treasury talk about hundred of billion of pound , and he have in fact secure from his Chancellor £ 1 . 6 billion a year . he talk about national ownership . this be not enough money to do that , and he know it . he himself think that his plan would cost vastly more , yet he be promise to do it all now with 6 % of the fund . that be just not credible . then we come to promise no . 3 . the Government say that " in every single project " that GB Energy invest in " there will be a return for the british taxpayer " . — [ Official Report , 26 July 2024 ; Vol . 752 , c . 937 . ] that be what the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , the hon . member for Rutherglen say on 26 July — it be in Hansard if member want to check . it say " in every single project " . what Labour be tell industry be very different . it say that it will use that money — £ 8 billion of taxpayer ' money — to de - risk its project . I believe that the Secretary of State say that in his speech today . what do that mean ? that mean that it will be invest in the part of those project that the energy company do not expect to be profitable . may I ask this : what be it about the Secretary of State ' s vast private sector experience , which he gain as a researcher at Channel 4 , that make he think he can turn a profit , when experience , multimillion - pound energy company can not ? he have not set out an expected financial rate of return , any risk profile or a timeframe for these return . those be the minimum thing that anyone seek investment should set out , and I say that as someone who be financially train . I know that the right hon . Gentleman be not , but this be basic stuff . here be the problem . if the Secretary of State ' s goal be to give taxpayer a good deal , he should be invest on commercial rate , which would just displace private sector capital and would not speed up his decarbonisation target , produce more energy or low bill . but if his goal be to de - risk more speculative project — that be the line that he be give industry and the thing that he say today — then by definition he will be throw taxpayer ' money into the least attractive part of investment , by which I mean the part that multimillion - pound company do not want . the risk be that GB Energy , far from generate any profit for taxpayer , will become a skip for all and everyone to put their problem and their failure inside . this be crucial , because we can not let the Government repeat at a national scale what Labour council have do at a local level . [ interruption . ] Labour Members groan , but they should think about what local taxpayer have have to face . Robin Hood Energy in Nottingham , which collapse , leave resident with debt of £ 38 million . Bristol Energy , which fail , cost resident £ 43 million . Warrington ' s stake in Together Energy leave resident with a potential liability of £ 37 million . these be small - time project with budget in the ten of million . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I can not hear what the shadow Secretary of State be say because there be so much noise come from those on the Government Front Bench . they do not want to hear what she be say , because it might be true . I thank the hon . member for that comment . he will know that that be not a point of order . would the shadow Secretary of State please proceed ? this be really important , because we be talk about taxpayer ' money . those be small - time project with budget in the ten of million , but the Secretary of State be ask for a budget of billion of pound with no plan . he mention a couple of company in his speech , include EDF , which make a loss of € 17 billion in 2022 , and Ø rste , which make a loss of € 2 . 7 billion in 2023 , so I think it be right that we ask some of these question . the right hon . Lady mention Robin Hood Energy and other local energy company that be in fact supply company . we be talk about a great british Energy company that will be generate energy . she simply do not understand that . she be make a mistake about our plan , and fail to understand what be actually go on . she be suggest that something be go to happen that be not go to happen . if the hon . Lady would bravely like to say that the company will generate energy , I be sure that she would like to tell we how much , because no one else seem able to . will the right hon . member give way ? I be sorry , but I will make some progress . finally — this be really important — the Secretary of State pay lip service to nuclear , but we know that when Labour be last in power it do not start a single nuclear power plant in all its 14 year . all summer , there have be an eerie silence . on the capital raise for Sizewell C , which should be out by now — nothing . on the small modular reactor competition , which should be decide its final project now — nothing . we commit to a third large - scale nuclear power plant at Wylfa — again , nothing . we write to the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , the hon . member for Rutherglen , but once again he have refuse to confirm any detail or , with regard to Wylfa , whether those plan be even in place . can the Secretary of State say whether the creation of GB Energy be slow down those project and cause the timetable of these programme , which will provide clean , cheap energy , to slip ? will the right hon . member give way ? I will not ; I will continue . once again , we simply have no answer . I find all this very strange , because at our last encounter in this House , the Secretary of State be keen to confess that he be a " super - nerd " . as someone who have be a lifelong mathlete , I be the first person to want to champion a fellow super - nerd , but when I meet super - nerd they normally like evidence , fact and number . whenever we look at what the Secretary of State have set out , there be no number attach . he talk about decarbonise the grid by 2030 , but he have not set out the full system cost of that . he promise profit and bill saving from GB Energy , but he can not tell we by when or how much . when it come to the Bill and its 2030 target , it be clear that the Secretary of State do not have the number , because two week ago he write a letter to the director of the Electricity System Operator . I have it here . do you know what he say , Madam Deputy Speaker ? he ask the director to please " provide practical advice on achieve clean power by 2030 " , include a " high - level assessment of cost " . give that we be talk about people ' s energy bill , I think the public would like a detailed look at what this be go to cost they . to top it off , he ask the director to advise what action his Government should take " to enable delivery … clearly set out where further work be require . " the evidence could not be clear . he go into a general election with a pledge and no idea how to achieve it , what it will cost or whether it be achievable at all . that be the exact point that I want to make ; I be very keen for the Secretary of State to take my intervention on that point . the key practical , tangible thing that my constituent want to know be when they will see the £ 300 saving that he promise they during the general election . that be what really impact family and household up and down this country . when a Minister come to sum up the debate , will they restate that commitment to household about a £ 300 saving ? that be a very fair question . I hope that the energy Minister , who I assume will wrap up the debate , will be able to provide some detail . far from be a super - nerd , the truth be that the Secretary of State be the ultimate career politician . he come up with big title and make big promise to the public , but he have no idea how to deliver . my big fear — [ interruption . ] he should listen , because it be an important point . my big fear be that he be lose focus on all the amazing technology that will come online after 2030 , whether it be fusion energy , the next generation of nuclear reactor or carbon capture . these be the innovative new technology that will not just deal with the 1 % of emission in the UK but the 99 % produce overseas . in Government , I focus a lot of my time on speed up the development of those technology . we launch the £ 1 billion green industry growth accelerator specifically to reduce any supply chain constraint , for example on cable . we provide almost £ 200 million to help the UK become the first commercial producer of advanced nuclear fuel outside Russia . we be make Britain one of the most exciting place in the world for fusion energy development , with £ 600 million of funding . I thank the right hon . member for give way — finally . she be criticise the Government for the rushed target of decarbonise the grid by 2030 . can she enlighten the House on when the conservative party would do it ? I will . this be a critical point , which I have make in recent week . the point about have long to decarbonise be that it give time to develop british supply chain . that be exactly what I be do . the green industry growth accelerator and some of the other thing that I have talk about give we time to set up british company . those thing can not be do in five year . there be a need to get project finance , to hire worker and train they , and to get planning permission . there be a huge amount that need to be do . the fact that the Secretary of State want to rush the transition and make it happen at breakneck speed be risk british job and livelihood , and make we dependent on chinese supply chain . the Secretary of State have promise many thing with the Bill , but he simply can not set out any detail about the thing that he want to deliver . it would be a blank cheque for £ 8 billion of taxpayer ' money , with no plan , no evidence , and no number for the bill saving or profit that he have be promise the british public . that be why we can not support the Bill as it stand . I call Becky Gittins to make her maiden speech . much like one of Clwyd East ' s famous son , John Prescott , who hail from Prestatyn , I do hope my maiden speech pack a punch . give that the custom in a maiden speech be for the new Member to talk about some of the good bit of their constituency , come back from a summer of attend carnival , f ê tes , agricultural show , a classic car festival , a duck race , fun day and dog show have make my job today a little easy . today , I be go to take the House on a whistle - stop tour of Clwyd East , a place that it be my great privilege to represent . it be apt that I give my maiden speech in a debate about great British Energy , as Clwyd East boast on its coastline the port of Mostyn , with Gwynt y M ô r wind farm , a UK leader in offshore wind power , and North Hoyle offshore wind farm , off the coast of Prestatyn . both demonstrate the transformative nature of offshore wind for our country , through the energy that they generate and the local employment that they provide . great British Energy will see that go even far , tackle the climate crisis and create good - quality , long - term , sustainable skilled job in north Wales and across the UK . prestatyn ' s beautiful stretch of coastline be not just useful for produce clean energy ; it be also a hub of tourism , with its blue flag beach , beautifully keep station and public garden , and high street with lot of brilliant local business . though I be proud to be the first MP for the new constituency of Clwyd East , I pay tribute to my predecessor in this part of the seat , Dr James Davies , the former MP for the Vale of Clwyd constituency . from Prestatyn , James use his time in Parliament to be a dementia champion , and serve his country in Government . Holywell be the next major town along the coast . St Winefride ' s well , the Lourdes of Wales , bring in thousand of visitor a year . there be the old water mill at Basingwerk Abbey , base at Greenfield valley , fame for its cotton and textile mill in the 19th century , and latterly for its brilliant heritage trail , wonderful dog walk and very challenging parkrun . Holywell High Street be also home to Holywell Area Community Museum , which feature my great - grandfather ' s St John Ambulance uniform and my great - uncle ' s mining helmet from the Point of Ayr colliery . Clwyd East have a proud mining heritage , with most family near the coast have link to the Point of Ayr or Bettisfield colliery . that heritage also form an important part of my upbringing , and be the reason I be so proud of labour ' s commitment to end the injustice of the mineworker ' pension scheme . as the 684th woman to be elect to Parliament , I would like to pay tribute to Eirene White , a trail - blazer and — like yourself , Madam Deputy Speaker — a Deputy Speaker who be integral to labour ' s commitment to equal pay , as the 58th woman elect to Parliament . Clwyd East have a vast and diverse geography , contain coastal town , the clwydian mountain range and the many unique village at its base . these village provide much in term of innovation and activity , through the brilliant initiative they champion and fantastic event that they hold — from community - own pub and shop to agricultural show and music festival . hail from the small village of Bagillt , I be immensely proud to have such a wealth of impressive , small and mighty village in my constituency . farming be central to the economy and culture of Clwyd East , with 68 % of the constituency serve as agricultural land . in May , I head to Clawdd Offa farm , near Northop , to meet National Farmers Union county chairman David Williams and his family on their dairy farm . after a brief chat , we head out into an enclose field full of cow . in one of the more surreal moment of be a parliamentary candidate , I look out in front of I and could not help but observe aloud , " why would anyone want to spend their day in an enclose space with horde of rowdy , low mammal ? " , to which David reply , " I quite agree Becky — you must be mad ! " move south , Clwyd East ' s small town be Caerwys , which play host to the very first Eisteddfod , and be also the home of Dr Tim Erasmus , chair of the Caerwys Historical Society and my very much admire former politic teacher . next be the historic market town of Mold , a town very close to my heart as it be where I spend many summer perform with my dance school at Theatr Clwyd and where I go to sixth form at the Alun school . the Alun school work to give its student the good opportunity to succeed — something that I be firmly committed to . maximise opportunity for young people be a passion that I know I share with one former predecessor from the Delyn constituency , David Hanson — after all , I first come to Parliament on work experience with David 13 year ago . so committed be David to provide opportunity for young people that he be continue to monitor and support my development by join the other place as Lord Hanson . I be so proud and excited to work alongside a political hero of mine under a new Labour Government , whose resolve to do the very same thing 32 year ago pave the way for I and a generation of young people to access opportunity and succeed . between 2019 and 2024 , Delyn be serve by Rob Roberts . I be hearten by Rob ' s local root and close tie with the community that bring he up , as well as his keenness to work with community council and his proud use of the Welsh language , have go to the Welsh - medium school Maes Garmon . Fel maen nhw ' n dweud , " cenedl heb iaith , cenedl heb galon . " — [ translation : as they say , " a country without a language be a country without a heart . " ] as well as have educate two mp , Mold be also the home of Daniel Owen square ; Bailey Hill , or Mold castle ; and a thriving number of independent shop and business . with a summer recess of sample cake at local f ê tes have take its toll on my waistline , I be grateful to the brilliant independent clothe shop that have save the day , include Simmi , where I find the perfect outfit to make my maiden speech in . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] thank you ; that be very kind ! as be the case throughout the constituency , people in Mold take great pride in their town and contribute to the roll series of event and festival throughout the year . I be also privileged to represent the beautiful town of Ruthin , with its rich history and endure architecture . as well as Ruthin castle and its resident peacock , the local community have work to make sure that Ruthin ' s old courthouse , jail and market hall be restore and open to the public . Ruthin also host the incredibly popular Ruthin festival , a fantastic annual event run by local volunteer and proudly conduct yn Gymraeg . head over the horseshoe pass , the final large town of the constituency be Llangollen . as the host of the annual Llangollen International Musical Eisteddfod , Llan be proud to be the place where " Wales welcome the world " . I do have ticket to the Eisteddfod this year — a night of west end musical number on 4 July — but clearly the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) have other idea . with Llangollen in my constituency , I must hold the title for the constituency with the good and most varied day out . where else could you expect to ride on a heritage steam train in the morning and head just 10 minute down the road to kayak across an aqueduct with UNESCO world heritage status in the afternoon ? llangollen railway and the Froncysyllte aqueduct be only part of what Clwyd East have to offer . if you be feel a bit dizzy at this point , Madam Deputy Speaker , that be because you have just travel about 40 mile in — hopefully — around eight minute . whether it be support local business to thrive , improve public transport , keep our community safe , improve people ' s right at work or help young people to fulfil their potential , I will do all I can for the people of Clwyd East , and I will work tirelessly to repay the trust that they have place in I . I call the Lib Dem spokesperson . I congratulate the new hon . member for Clwyd East ( Becky Gittins ) on a wonderful whistle - stop tour of her constituency , from wonderful dog walk to rowdy cow in field and fascinating museum that testify to the history of her constituency . we live in Liverpool for 10 year , many year ago , and we visit her constituency many time and have wonderful day there . I know how beautiful it be . champion renewable energy be in our dna as Liberal Democrats . renewable be clean , cheap and popular . we welcome the fact that the new Government be turn around the damaging attitude take by the Conservative Government and be attempt to make the UK once more a global leader in get to net zero . we be absolutely on the side of the government when it come to the ambitious target that be be set to get to net zero . we be pleased that through the Bill new step be be take to restore british investment in the green economy . the Bill must ensure that renewable energy and home insulation can be roll out at speed so that we meet our climate target , bring down energy bill and provide green , well - pay job in the future . the previous Conservative Government ' s obsession with oil and gas leave we in a mess . the dithering , delay and even deny of the Tory Government hold we back . I have often say that net zero be not like a bus that we can miss and say , " whoop ! we ' ll get the next one . " this be a target that we can not miss , and delaying be just as bad as deny that climate change be happen at all . will the hon . Lady give way ? I be happy to give way ; the right hon . Gentleman and I have have many discussion on this issue . I wonder whether the hon . Lady know of a single major economy on the planet that go fast than the previous Conservative Government in cut emission . I be happy to respond to that , because I do believe that the UK be a global leader . there be cross - party agreement about net zero , but the last Government break that agreement . that be our problem . each year and each month matter when it come to set the pace to get to net zero . instead of produce our own renewable energy , we be leave reliant on fossil fuel — the energy of the past — and on dictator such as Vladimir Putin . in this unstable geopolitical environment , that be a death sentence and lead to the catastrophe of the recent energy crisis . family be once again worried about another dramatic energy bill increase — we say that honestly to this Government and want to work with they on this issue — this time of £ 140 on a typical family ' s annual energy bill . pensioner be also rightly concerned about the Government ' s plan to cut the winter fuel allowance for million of the poor and most vulnerable people . I raise the matter in business question early and say what be important to we . we of course recognise that through the pension increase next April there will be relief for pensioner , but this winter , when thing have become really difficult for pensioner , the Government should not make cut before we have see the benefit . we have be make that point and hope to work constructively . it be a political choice and , in our view , it be the wrong one , but it be pretty rich of the conservative party to complain . it be clear that if we be to hit our net zero target , we must drive up investment in renewable energy . the Climate Change Committee ' s 2024 progress report find that policy reversal and delay , together with inconsistent messaging , hinder progress just when acceleration be need . only around one third of the emission reduction require to meet the 2030 target be cover by our current plan . I challenge the shadow Secretary of State on what the Conservatives ' plan for decarbonise actually be , but we have have no answer . we must , for example , at least triple the operational capacity of offshore wind installation to meet our 2030 target — and we Liberal Democrats absolutely believe in the 2030 target . new first - in - class renewable energy technology be come on the scene thick and fast , and the Government must find well mechanism for fund they than we currently have in place . one example , if I may bring it up , be DRIFT Energy , which be base in my Bath constituency . I hope the Secretary of State be listen . DRIFT use sail ship to travel to the deep sea to harvest deep ocean wind and generate green hydrogen . interesting technology be come on board , but these new technology still face many investment problem . the green hydrogen be then deliver to port around the world — they be essentially fish ship for energy . truly novel technology like this do not fit neatly under a Department , so it become exceptionally hard to win grant , let alone multimillion - pound grant support . it be important that we be aware of that . do my hon . friend agree that we need the Bill to look at and include scheme like the Cheltenham green deal , run by Cheltenham borough council , through which local organisation that could not otherwise fund green scheme be able to access funding borrow by the local council ? such scheme will then make money and provide a return for the taxpayer so that local area can start produce more renewable energy for themselves — for example , through the investment in solar panel on the roof of Cheltenham Town football club . as I progress with my speech , my hon . friend will hear that our focus on local authority , local decision making and local involvement be crucial . let we ensure that our emerge technology , which have the potential to be hugely valuable , be not overlook or force to seek support from abroad . do my hon . friend agree that the Secretary of State should take on board one of the emerge technology that could deliver the most for great British Energy : the potential for tidal range energy ? in a previous life , I be responsible for the consenting of the Swansea tidal lagoon , which unfortunately the previous Government fail to fund . it be the second big tidal range in the world and could be a massive success story for Great British Energy and the UK . do she agree that the Secretary of State should take that on board as a key objective of great British Energy ? I totally agree , and I be sure that the Government will agree too . a lot of these decision be ultimately about value for money ; as these tidal range technology come on board , they can become cheap . I hear the Government be say that this be exactly the plan : that , where it be currently expensive , great British Energy can come in and provide support . we understand and support that principle . this new Government must ensure that they have clear and consistent message . delay to the phase - out date of fossil - fuel vehicle and boiler , as we see under the last government , have send mixed signal to investor , business and consumer . we hope that GB Energy will go some way in provide confidence to other investment body and the wide industry that Britain ' s green economy be open for business . we Liberal Democrats realise the importance of community buy - in . the new Government must put local voice at the centre of the journey to deliver net zero . we need to win heart and mind to persuade people that net zero project be good for their community , for their pocket and for our future national economy . the Government have say that they believe community that host renewable energy infrastructure should benefit from it , but there be currently no way to force developer of on - ground mount solar panel farm to provide community benefit . do my hon . friend agree that the Government should use this Bill to make provision for guarantee community benefit in these circumstance ? we have already have some detailed discussion about what we be do with community that have to host vital infrastructure , and it be important that the Government assure local community and the Liberal Democrats that this will happen . as the Bill progress , we need to discuss how we can get legal assurance and whether the Bill be the right place for this . as I have say , we need to win heart and mind to persuade people . only with local consent can we successfully deliver the path to net zero , which be why we have call for community live near large - scale infrastructure project to receive community benefit — for example , through reduce energy cost and fund local initiative . we be keen to work collaboratively to ensure that these benefit be in place in legislation . we Liberal Democrats welcome the inclusion of clause 3 , which list specifically all the object of GB Energy . although those aim all have their merit , the Government have fail to include anything on community energy . that be especially disappointing — [ interruption . ] may I continue ? I will lay this out as I understand it — I work on the all - party parliamentary group for community energy , and I will get to my point . it be especially disappointing that the new Government have fail to include anything on community energy , give their welcome word in the House about how important it be to enable community energy — I hear it again and again . it be no long about word ; we now have a Bill before we in which we can make this happen . I will lay out what I think be necessary . without the inclusion of community energy , the Bill will be a major miss opportunity . in the past , the now Secretary of State and his Ministers have be vocal champion of community energy . in a previous debate on make Britain a clean energy superpower , the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , the hon . member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) , state : " one of the mission of GB Energy will be around the idea of community - own power . " he have also advocate for local community to have " some sense of ownership of the asset " — [ Official Report , 26 July 2024 ; Vol . 752 , c . 942 . ] that they generate . last year , the Secretary of State himself table two enable amendment on community energy to the then Energy Bill ; his new clause 53 specifically would have require large - scale energy supplier to offer a special agreement to small - scale energy company . he have speak at length about Labour ' s local power plan , much of which we be in agreement with , but where be the commitment to community energy in this Bill ? the big issue we identify be that energy supply licensing condition hinder small community energy project from sell directly to consumer . in turn , this make it difficult to retain advantage for local community — discount on their energy bill , for example , or raise new money to invest in new project . the high burden and cost currently involve in be a licensed energy supplier mean that not a single community energy project in all the UK can sell its power directly to local people . locally sourced energy do not travel far across the nationwide grid , and therefore reduce that constraint on it , but the cost - benefit of sell locally produce energy to local consumer be not go to community project and nor do they benefit the consumer . that must change . regulatory change be require ; the Government must put they in place or stop talk about their support for community energy . community energy scheme need to receive a guarantee , discount price for the clean electricity that they contribute to the energy system . if the cost of sell their power to local household and business be proportionate , many more community energy scheme would become financially viable and we would get many more than we have ; I urge the Government to really look at our concern and what we can include in the Bill to make these regulatory change . clause 3 be the ideal place to add community energy and ensure that it be one of great British Energy ' s object . to conclude , we liberal Democrats welcome the step be take to restore british investment in renewable energy after the mess leave by the previous Government . these step will help we to bring down energy bill , create high - quality job , increase our energy security and , of course , reach net zero . however , there be a clear gap in this Bill for community energy , despite labour ' s manifesto commit to it , and we urge the Government to listen to our concern . rise — I call Mike Reader to make his maiden speech . I have have the opportunity to hear some amazing maiden speech in this House . follow such fantastic speech , I must admit that I feel a bit nervous standing here , but I be also deeply honour to be in the House . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Clwyd East ( Becky Gittins ) for her fantastic maiden speech and for graciously meet my family when they visit last year ; they be her constituent . it be clear to I that the talent , enthusiasm and fresh thinking that the new cohort of mp be bring into this House will help to restore our country ' s fortune and deliver the change that the country vote for . I be delighted to make my first speech in the debate on GB Energy . for many year , it have not sit right with I that our neighbour and trading partner around the world have benefit from the investment of UK plc in clean energy . whether it be wind farm build in Scandinavia , or investment in nuclear by our french Government partner , the UK public have be sell short on clean energy investment . it be right that the Labour Government be take forward plan for sovereign , safe and secure energy in the UK — that be very welcome in my constituency . I will use this speech to introduce myself and my constituency to the House , recognise the career of my predecessor , and to set out my vision for the future of Northampton . despite come from a family of teacher and educator , and despite the good effort of my dad , who join I today from the Public Gallery , and my mum , who be watch from home , school and exam definitely do not come naturally to I . after a difficult result day , I manage to get to university via a foundation degree , and I find my passion in civil engineering . I have be fortunate since then to have progress through the industry — from engineering to commercial and project management — and then into senior leadership role . I be really proud to have be recognise as a global leader in my field by my peer in the profession , despite a less - than - ideal start in life — one of my own making — and to have have my career shape by amazing experience , project and people around the world . I thank in particular my friend and mentor , Jon Williams , who have help I the whole way through my journey , and my very good friend and former podcast co - host , Jeremy Brim , for all their guidance . I also thank my former boss , Jason Millett and Davendra Dabasia , and my amazing former work - win team , for give I the space and support that I need to pursue my political passion alongside a demanding day job . I come to this place as an advocate for the build environment . to be honest , I could not be in a well place now , with a government focus on growth and on transform and future - proof our energy , housing and transportation infrastructure . many of my friend and industry colleague ask why on earth I would want to stand for Parliament , but my journey into the world of politic have be shape by my time in industry . I first see the impact of austerity on my public sector client , with school programme cancel , infrastructure investment stall and hospital leave cry out for funding . that drive I to join the Labour party and find my political voice , determine to ensure that our public sector get from Government the support and funding that it desperately need . when the opportunity come to stand and make a difference , I choose to stand where I live : Northampton . I meet my wife Katie , who also join we from the Public Gallery , just down the road in Wellingborough , and Northamptonshire have be my home for nearly 20 year now . I still have a place in my heart for my home town of Romsey , which be well represent by you , Madam Deputy Speaker . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] but I be proud to call myself a Northamptonian and to represent the town that I live in and love . Northampton South be a vibrant constituency . from Duston and Upton in the west , the Hunsburys and Shelfleys , Wootton , Collingtree , Hardingstone and Great Houghton in the south , and area such as Weston Favell , Billing and Rectory Farm in the eastern district , each area of my beautiful constituency have its own individual identity . in the centre of my constituency remain the legacy of the shoe - and - boot trade that be once the main employer in my town . the Church ' s shoe factory remain in St James , and the surround terrace in Far Cotton and Delapre be still stand strong nearly 200 year after they be build . as my hon . friend the Member for Northampton North ( Lucy Rigby ) note yesterday , Church ' s hold the honour of be the choose cordwainer of a renowned former Member for Sedgefield . great institution such as our university , our general hospital , our football club and our Premiership - win rugby club sit in Northampton South . [ interruption . ] I be expect a " Shoe army ! " then , but that ' s fine . my constituency include Brackmills , one of the most successful business improvement district in the UK . thousand of people be employ at brackmill , which play host to over 330 brilliant business , span food production , logistic and fulfilment , manufacturing , healthcare , and research and development . I look forward to work with the BID team to ensure that it continue to be a major employment hub in Northampton South for year to come . anyone who have visit my constituency or grow up there will know that we be the home of the national lift tower , which stand at over 400 foot high — tall than the Statue of Liberty . the formation of the newly shape Northampton South constituency mean that I have have the opportunity to take over from two former member of Parliament who have have very different experience and career in this House , and I would like to pay tribute to they both . Andrew Lewer , the previous MP for the former Northampton South constituency , be focus on parliamentary business and tackle the challenge that he see as the most important to the UK . he champion the Motor Neurone Disease Association , which be headquarter in Northampton , as well as independent school and house building . locally , he will continue to be recognise through the annual Spencer Percival debate that he help to set up in the town . he be also the only person to have hold the position of leader of a council , Member of the European Parliament and Member of this House — a testament to his public service . I also take over in part from Dame Andrea Leadsom , the former Member of Parliament for South Northamptonshire . many of the southern village that have now join Northampton South be in her constituency . Dame Andrea serve as a Secretary of State under the previous Government , and have a formidable record of championing parent and child , include by establish the Northamptonshire Parent Infant Partnership in my county . many of the people who have write to I since my election have praise her advocacy for they as their constituency MP . it be clear that she make a massive difference not only in this House but in our county . Northampton may hold the accolade of be the large town in the UK — I will take that up with hon . member for read after the debate — but our town have have a continual lack of investment , and a lack of vision and drive to make it well . unfortunately , we have have no shortage of conservative scandal : public loan to our football club go missing , our county council be make bankrupt , the former police , fire and crime commissioner stand down over misogyny complaint , and allege domestic abuse mean that the leader of the council resign and now stand as an independent . trust in politician in Northampton be at an all - time low , but there be hope for Northampton , and it come with a Labour Government . this Labour Government will make Northampton a place to be proud of . we will tackle our chronic air quality challenge ; fix our road ; improve our bus network ; ensure that housing be affordable , of good quality and highly sustainable ; make work pay and a route out of poverty ; grow the co - operative , social enterprise and mutual sector in our town ; bring nhs dentist back to Northampton ; end the 8 am scramble for GP appointment ; face head - on the funding gap leave in our public service ; and address the special educational need and disability crisis that be rock our county . it be clear that there be a lot of work to do , but as I say in my acceptance speech at the count , the hard work start here , and I really mean it . I can not wait to get start . let I be the first to congratulate the hon . member for Northampton South ( Mike Reader ) on his maiden speech . he have demonstrate in two way that he be quite a rare beast . be an engineer be not a widely hold profession in this House , and he will no doubt bring great value with that expertise and experience , but his business experience be also extremely valuable . I be afraid that if he look around he on the Labour Benches , he will see precious few people with any business experience — as the Secretary of State have show with his Bill . the Bill be about set up a shell company . that be it . the idea that that constitute an energy policy be a complete myth . in fact , the Government have not even produce an energy policy . there have not be a White Paper on UK energy policy under this Government . there be no page full of datum and number to give we any confidence that the Government know what they be try to achieve , how they will achieve it , or what the risk be . in fact , that be give away in an astonishing letter that the Secretary of State write to the director of the electricity system operator , ask for all the information that one would expect the Government to have give that this be a major platform in their manifesto . [ interruption . ] the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , the hon . member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) , shake his head — I will give way to he if he want to intervene — but where be the number ? where be the datum back up this wild assertion that just go all out for renewable will provide security of supply and low energy cost ? it be a mantra that Labour member keep repeat to themselves with increase enthusiasm and vehemence to make up for the fact that they have no number to back up their assertion . let I be clear about one thing : I be an advocate of achieve net zero . I believe in the target of net zero by 2050 — indeed , I be a member of the net zero all - party parliamentary group . when member hear I speak , they be not listen to some luddite or climate change denier . I want this policy to work , but there be very considerable risk , which be evidence by read between the line for what be not in the Secretary of State ' s letter and what be clearly flag in Fintan Slye ' s response to it . do the hon . Member not recognise that under the previous Government , the UK be fall badly behind on investment , when other country — particularly the US — have transform the investment that they be draw in by make very big Government commitment to some project , particularly nascent one ? do he not recognise that that sort of government support make a big difference to business confidence ? I do not agree with that , simply because we have see massive investment in renewable over the past 14 year , as the former Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) , and the shadow Secretary of State , my right hon . friend the Member for East Surrey ( Claire Coutinho ) , set out . we have be make fantastic progress with bring renewable on stream , but there be considerable question to ask . I wish it be as simple as set up a shell company and say , " we be go to get the state to do everything " , but I be afraid it be not . as the shadow Secretary of State point out , Ø rste and EDF make massive loss , and either the taxpayer have to pay for those loss or those cost go on to electricity bill . the Secretary of State announce on Tuesday that we have get all this renewable capacity come on stream — enough to power 11 million home . that be if we match the maximum capacity of the renewable with the average annual demand of those home , but of course renewable be intermittent . it seem such an obvious thing to say , but we have to say it : sometimes the sun be shine , sometimes the wind be blow , and sometimes we have enough water for hydroelectric power , but sometimes not . in the winter month , solar make very little contribution — it make no contribution in the dark , at night . [ interruption . ] it may seem obvious , and the hon . member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) may laugh , but we need to point these thing out , because when the Secretary of State say that renewable be cheap than fossil fuel , he be compare the strike price with the cost of buy marginal supply capacity when we need that extra marginal supply . the strike price will not be reflect in our electricity bill , because we have to add in other thing , such as system balance cost . we have to add in grid infrastructure cost , because renewable require massive investment in grid infrastructure . we have to add in the cost of import through interconnector when we do not have enough domestic supply . we have not begin to factor in storage cost — the storage capacity of our electricity system be still miniscule . member should read the Royal Society paper on create electricity storage in this country : it be go to be astronomically expensive , and will probably still not be enough . then there be constraint payment — oh , yes , the constraint payment . this year , we be pay £ 500 million to renewable producer under the contract for difference scheme not to produce electricity when they can produce it , because that be how the system work . that be how we have attract so much investment , but those payment be go to be about £ 1 . 5 billion next year . I would like the Government to produce some forecast . how much will the balance cost be in each year over the next 10 or 15 year ? how much grid infrastructure investment will need to be fund ? that appear on our electricity bill — it be the stand charge , and boy , that charge be go to go up with all the infrastructure investment that we will require . how much will we have to spend on import electricity ? the two interconnector come into East Anglia as part of the Norwich to Tilbury programme will be import electricity . they be not for export , because the only security of supply we will have if we have shut down all our combine cycle gas power station by 2030 be from other place . indicate dissent . the Minister shake his head , but if we have shut down all that capacity — if we can not generate the electricity ourselves — we will have to get it from other place . there be phenomenon call wind drought , which can go on for very long period . what be we go to do when the wind turbine be not turn and the sun be not shine during a very cold spell in the middle of winter ? we have one or two close scare this winter . the generate margin that we use to enjoy have go . the great risk of accelerate the decarbonisation of the electricity system be that there will be more appeal for voluntary or compulsory restraint from industry , because industry be the hide customer that be shut off when we be short of electricity , or we risk more brownout or even blackout . that be not impossible , so where be the datum upon which the Minister be place so much confidence that show these forecast to be wrong ? I be not make they off my own bat — there be plenty of people out there make they . that bring I to the final brief point I want to make . I understand the logic that the Minister explain in his letter to I . I be sure that a member with the experience of the hon . Gentleman will know that Britain return to be a net exporter of electricity last year , so assume that there will be additional cost from import electricity due to the transition to renewable simply do not stack up . do he also recognise that when the sun do not shine and the wind do not blow , the tide still rise and fall twice a day , 365 day a year ? a future rest on renewable energy be possible , and we need to have that ambition for the United Kingdom . I absolutely share that ambition , but the question be how quickly we can get there . at the moment , tidal power produce almost nothing as a proportion of our electricity requirement . it be also intermittent , by the way : four time a day , there be a period during which it do not generate anything and we need to replace that supply with other thing . the real challenge be how we get to the objective that the hon . Gentleman and I share in a rational way that carry the british public with we . it be noticeable that what people be complain about most be the price on their electricity bill . today , the constraint cost , balance cost , infrastructure cost and import cost that I mention make up perhaps 50 % of domestic electricity bill . if that figure be wrong , let the Minister produce some figure of his own that explain what proportion of consumer ’ bill arise from all those factor , because it be not explain . there be no transparency on our electricity bill . on the hon . Gentleman ' s point about the objective of decarbonisation , we be not go to get there at all if we lose the public — if the light start brown out or go out , and we find that we can not meet demand . to some extent , we be pile up that demand by decarbonise transport and other part of the system , include decarbonise building heat through heat pump . the demand for electricity will rise , but our capacity to produce it reliably at all hour and in all condition be be reduce . on the question of import and export , we might become a net exporter of electricity , but perhaps the hon . Gentleman can explain how the price at which we be export compare with the price at which we be import . the difficulty be that we will be import when the wind be not blow or the sun be not shine , and it be likely that the wind will not be blow across the entirety of the North sea , so we will be import fossil fuel - generate power at a very high cost to compensate for the fact that we have get rid of our own gas production and gas - fire power station . I be not sure that situation will be very good . if the hon . Gentleman would look at the Arup report on the Tarchon interconnector , which will come into my constituency under the present plan , he will see that that interconnector will not actually contribute very much to security of supply , but will be use almost entirely to export when there be too much wind . it will export at below the strike price if there be too much wind and it will export at a loss , and the cost will finish up on the bill of the british consumer . so the british consumer be pay for all the investment , pay for the strike price , pay for the infrastructure and then pay to subsidise the export to the Germans , who will be the beneficiary of all this investment . I appeal to the Minister to just read the Arup report and look at this . that be why I ask about the offshore co - ordination support scheme work that have be do . I be not go to ask for the impossible and ask he to revive the OCSS , but I would like from he an assurance that the work ESO have do will not simply be throw away and waste . please can he assure the House that that work will be incorporate into the spatial plan that ESO say it want to produce ? some very interesting innovation come out of that work , but there be also a lot of work discredit the long - term viability of Norwich to Tilbury and , look on a different timeframe — in the long term — that could produce a much more viable alternative than be currently on the table . there be still work to be do on that , but I have no doubt that Fintan Slye will want to do that work as part of his project for the Government . I would like to know that the Minister be go to support the holistic approach to which the Secretary of State refer , because Norwich to Tilbury be certainly not the product of a strategic approach to electricity grid upgrading . we need a much more strategic approach , and I be look for that from this government , but it certainly will not come from this Bill . rise — order . you will all be able to see — and you can all sit down while I be speak — that a huge number of member be seek to catch my eye . for those not make their maiden speech , I intend to introduce a six - minute time limit . that should give those prepare their speech plenty of time to chop out the extraneous word . I call Chris Hinchliff to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to give my maiden speech in this important debate . the ongoing transition of our energy system be have a profound and , sadly , often harmful impact on many of the community in my constituency , so I be very hopeful that the provision in the Bill will begin at last to put the future of renewable energy in the service of those I represent . I warmly commend to my hon . friend on the Front Bench the proposal , of which I be sure they will be aware , for great British Energy to be give a duty to deliver nature recovery alongside its other objective . I begin this speech by pay tribute to my predecessor , who serve our constituency and this House faithfully for many year . the clear proof of the diligence with which he carry out his duty and the respect he earn from his constituent be plainly obvious from the feedback on the doorstep throughout the general election . I especially want to thank my predecessor for the work he do to support the campaign for Hugh ' s law to secure well financial support for parent care for seriously ill child , and also for his work fight for the restoration of the several internationally significant chalk stream that flow through North East Hertfordshire . I look forward to do what I can to further both of those important project during my time in this place . although the many year of my predecessor ' s incumbency have all but erase it from our memory , I be not in fact the first Member of my party to represent community in North East Hertfordshire . the late , great , trailblaze Shirley Williams , when she be first elect as a Labour MP , represent many of the area that make up my constituency . despite the intervening 60 year , I find read her maiden speech from 1964 very helpful in prepare for this moment , for , as she say then , the constituency I represent be in " many way … a microcosm " of much of our country . North East Hertfordshire from Hinxworth to Bayford contain many small rural community full of important history and culture — from the home of George Orwell in Wallington to the stain - glass window design by William Morris and pre - raphaelite artist in Waterford . in Baldock , Buntingford and Royston , we have quintessentially english market town , home to fantastic independent business as well as nationally significant company such as Johnson Matthey . in Letchworth , we have the world ' s first garden city , build on the principle of the common ownership of land , which to this day offer a radical example of how to well design and build the community of the future . surround it all , we have some of the good agricultural land in the country , with local farmer such as those near Groundswell in Weston and Finches farm in Benington spearhead the ecological innovation we need to grow fantastic food in harmony with nature . yet in my experience of speak to resident right across North East Hertfordshire , the recur theme be of community dispirit and frustrate at have their need put aside in the interest of what other have call progress , so I will close by mention one debt of honour that I want to bring to hon . member ' attention at this time . I have be ask to keep the follow story anonymous by the family in question , but I believe it illustrate powerfully how the community outside our urban centre be too often treat . during the general election , as I reach the last road canvass in a particularly idyllic village in my constituency , I come to knock on the final door in a quiet row of terrace . after initially wait without answer , I be about to leave when I be call over by a voice from the passenger seat of a nearby car . the gentleman sit there be not old and be keen to speak , but be clearly very ill . between painful coughing and laboured breathing , he explain to I how in the construction of new housing in the meadow beyond his street , agricultural shed contain asbestos be demolish with almost incomprehensible recklessness in a single afternoon by worker who be themselves equip with virtually none of the necessary protective equipment . rather than the asbestos be carefully remove , it be smash up on site , create large cloud of hazardous dust right next to the exist home . the gentleman I be speak to have , tragically , subsequently contract asbestosis , which have ruin his health and leave he barely able to travel from his front door to his car . despite the concern he raise at the time , no one be ever hold to account for these action , and he urge I passionately to raise the danger associate with the rushed and unsafe demolition of agricultural building contain asbestos at the early opportunity if I be elect as his MP . I be sorry to inform the House that when I return a few week later to speak to he about honour his request and include this story in my maiden speech , I be tell by his widow that he have recently pass away . the chance for any meaningful justice for this family have now go with he . meanwhile , developer have no doubt pocket a return on investment that much fat for have fatally cut corner at the expense of local resident . whether it be profit - lead development , the cancellation of bus route , or the closure of bank and village school , the fundamental experience of town and village like those in North East Hertfordshire have too often be one of be do to and expect to endure , rather than one of be look after , work with and empower to contribute . it be this , above all , that I hope to chip away at in my contribution in this place . I thank the House for listen patiently to my first attempt , and my constituent for give I the opportunity to do so . I call Liz Jarvis to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for give I the opportunity to make my maiden speech during the debate on this important Bill . I welcome effort to provide renewable energy , bring down heating bill and support the growth of our green manufacturing industry . I hope the Bill will make clear provision for GB Energy to engage with local community such as mine in Eastleigh . I would also like to congratulate the hon . member for North East Hertfordshire ( Chris Hinchliff ) on his excellent speech . I be incredibly humble and honour to be the Liberal Democrat Member of Parliament for Eastleigh , and grateful to all those who put their trust in I to represent they . I be also grateful to everyone who encourage I on my journey to Westminster , but particularly Baroness Floella Benjamin , the former MP for Eastleigh Mike Thornton and the family of David Chidgey . Lord Chidgey be commit to fight to keep our precious chalk stream , the River Itchen , free from sewage and pollution . as my constituent know , I be continue his legacy . I also thank my predecessor and his team for their prompt response to hand over casework . my constituency be a vibrant community of town and village . the town of Eastleigh grow up around the railway line between Southampton and Winchester , and be name by local author Charlotte Yonge . Eastleigh become a local point of aerial effort during the first and second world war , with Spitfires take off from the airfield , which be now Southampton airport . we have beautiful green space include Stoke Park wood in Bishopstoke , Flexford nature reserve in Valley Park , and Hiltingbury lake in Chandler ' s Ford . West end be home to the Utilita Bowl cricket ground , where the late great Shane Warne captain Hampshire , a proud part of our sporting tradition . we be also incredibly proud of our Spitfires , Eastleigh football club , who play in the national league . we have all be inspire by our extraordinary athlete compete at the Olympics and Paralympics this summer . I hope the House will join I in congratulate Eastleigh - bear three - time Paralympic champion David Smith on his recent bronze medal win in Paris , and on his tireless championing of boccia . Eastleigh ' s olympic heritage stretch back to 1932 , when local hero Tommy Green , who be unable to walk until the age of five due to ricket , go on to win a gold medal in the man ' s 50 km walk . my constituency be also home to the fantastic Point theatre , with its brilliant programme of cultural event all year round , include the always popular unwrapped festival , and we be lucky to have many fine pub and craft brewery , include Steam Town in Eastleigh town , and Steel Tank Alehouse in Chandler ' s Ford . I also recommend the luscious Victoria sponge at Fountain caf é in Fair Oak . Eastleigh have a proud history of help to support refugee and evacuee . in May 1937 , child and adult flee the spanish civil war be house at a refugee camp in North Stoneham . eight - five year ago this week , Eastleigh community welcome evacuee from Gosport , and in 1940 , refugee from Southampton . more recently , our local council be one of the first authority in England to house refugee flee the Taliban during the 2021 Afghanistan evacuation , and people across the constituency throw open their door to family flee the war in Ukraine . early this summer , Eastleigh host the always popular annual Mela , organise by our Asian Welfare and Cultural Association , and in a few week , it will be Eastleigh Pride . we have a warm , inclusive community in Eastleigh , which be very important to I , as be fight to ensure that everyone in our community can access the NHS service they need , include gp and dentist appointment , and mental health care when they need it . my mum die in March after a seven - year struggle with Alzheimer ' s , and as anyone who have experience of care for a love one with dementia will know , with that awful disease you lose the person twice . Mum be the daughter of irish migrant , a member of the woman ' s liberation movement who take I on my first march when I be a toddler , and a member of the Labour party who know mps Joan Lestor and Tom Cox well . she would go on to become a senior social worker . my dad be from Hampshire and a former officer in the British Army who serve his country for 16 year . although my mum and dad be diametrically oppose politically , they share a strong sense of compassion , and they raise my sister and I with those same value . unfortunately , my parent be never in a position to own their own home , so I grow up in rent accommodation with all the insecurity and uncertainty that go with it . when my dad die suddenly before my 21st birthday , my mum find herself in the position that far too many people be face today , with spiral rent and the prospect of eviction loom over they . since become the MP for Eastleigh , I have receive letter from resident face eviction through no fault of their own on an almost daily basis . I be proud that my party have be push for high standard for renter so that everyone have a safe and secure home . as a comprehensive - educate single mum who skip meal to feed my son and keep a roof over his head during the so - call great recession , I know all too well how easy it can be to fall through the gap . after 14 year of the previous Government , far too many family in Eastleigh simply do not have any kind of safety net and be live hand to mouth . it be incredibly important that we do everything we can to support those who continue to struggle with the cost of live and to lift child out of poverty , include by scrap the two - child benefit cap , as well as ensure that all child have access to the education they deserve , include those with special educational need . I be passionate about ensure that all child and young people in Eastleigh and across the UK be give the support , resource and opportunity to thrive and fulfil their full potential . I will conclude by acknowledge the vital role that our local charity play in support family in Eastleigh , include Citizen ' s Advice Eastleigh , Pavilions in the Park , Youth Options , and many more . I promise I will do everything I can to support everyone in our community during my time in Westminster , and to be the strong voice in Parliament that the people of Eastleigh deserve . I call Sarah Champion . thank you Madam Deputy Speaker , and may I congratulate you on be in the Chair ? it be pleasing to I and a benefit to the House to have three strong woman in that position . I also congratulate the hon . member for Eastleigh ( Liz Jarvis ) , who use her personal experience to speak of her pleasure and pride in her constituency . her personal , live experience will make she a much strong MP in this House ; I welcome she to her place . Rotherham be a hub of innovative green energy research and production , which be integral to the UK ' s energy transition . our Advanced Manufacturing Research Centre — AMRC — boast expertise in nuclear , fusion , hydrogen and the construction of offshore wind turbine blade . that create good , skilled job for Rotherham and contribute more than £ 55 million to the South Yorkshire economy every year . the AMRC be also home to the UK ' s first sustainable aviation fuel facility , and therefore I welcome the SAF Bill which be come soon . Rotherham ' s renewable production do not stop there . our fusion technology facility work with industry and science , to pioneer fusion energy as a major source of low - carbon electricity . templeborough power station , a biomass plant , sustainably convert waste wood into energy . it use recycle sawdust , wood chipping and scrap that would go into landfill , and be use in my constituency by Esken Renewables to fuel the power station . in do so it save 150 , 000 tonne of carbon dioxide every year . the research and innovation take place every day in Rotherham give it a unique role to play in this Government ' s ambitious energy plan , and there be an open invitation to the Secretary of State and Ministers to visit the opportunity in my constituency . I ask the Minister to include community energy as one of the specific objective in clause 3 of the Bill . an inquiry by the Environmental Audit Committee outline the enormous contribution that community energy scheme can bring , while reduce dependency on international energy import . I express my gratitude to Ministers for not pursue the legal challenge on the closure of the Rosebank oilfield . when the Conservatives be in power they grant new oil and gas licence to site such as Rosebank , but over a third of licence grant overlap with marine protect area and fail to consider the impact on biodiversity and marine health . mpa be intend to protect rare , threatened and important specie from damage cause by human activity . instead , innumerable careless decision by the last Government lead to 215 spill over the previous 12 year , result in 308 tonne of oil be spill and a devastating biodiversity decline in the very area we should be protect the most . like many in the Chamber I believe that solar energy have a key role to play in our transition to a low - carbon economy . however , I be concerned that without incorporate human right mechanism in the Bill , the transition will not be clean or just . it be well document that solar photovoltaic supply chain have a sinister dependency on force labour programme in the Xinjiang autonomous region of China , where the chinese Government be systematically persecute million of Uyghur , Turkic and Muslim - majority people on the basis of their religion and ethnicity . the People ' s Republic of China ' s global market share across the solar pv supply chain exceed 80 % . the Uyghur region have become the dominant global source location for critical input for the solar industry . an estimated 35 % of global polysilicon — use in almost all solar panel worldwide — be produce in Xinjiang . China ' s rapid success in the industry have be achieve with low - cost , subsidise , dirty coal , completely undermine the green credential it boast . as early as 2021 , the US enact the Uyghur Forced Labour Prevention Act , which place a ban on the importation of product from the Uyghur region , include shipment of solar panel with connection to Xinjiang . the legislation have be highly effective , with the market respond with new , ethical supply chain . Canada , the EU and Mexico have follow suit with similar regulation , but we have fall behind . I urge the Minister to address that failing , now that evidence have emerge of global supply chain bifurcate , with tainted solar good be redirect to country with weak regulation , such as the UK . our nation have become a dumping ground for dodgy solar . with this Bill , it be vital that we make a u - turn on the mistake of our predecessor . I welcome the Secretary of State for Business and Trade say this morning that he expect and demand " no modern slavery in any part " of our solar supply chain . he express a willingness to extend legislation to help tackle the problem . we must raise standard with this Bill by commit to the production and supply of clean energy that be free from slavery and state - impose forced labour at any stage of the supply chain , and I will be table amendment to that effect . in tandem , we must seriously consider implement an import ban . like the US prevention Act , it would need to ban renewable energy product make in whole or in part with state - impose Uyghur force labour . I hope the Minister will meet I to discuss that far . it be hard to overstate the importance of the energy sector to my constituent and , indeed , to the whole of north - east Scotland , so I be grateful to be call today . first , I must address the report that great British Energy might be headquarter in Aberdeen . the Government be still yet to confirm that , say that it be speculation , but the manner in which they have manage this announcement speak volume . the ambiguity and the joking about when an announcement might be make , and then just say that the headquarters will be in Scotland , do absolutely nothing to help the speculation and delay decision or give the industry any confidence . these layer of uncertainty be drive away investment and create a less secure job environment in north - east Scotland . Aberdeen have always be the energy capital of Europe . it have be that way for half a century , so it be the most logical choice for the headquarters . I have significant reservation and concern , which I will outline today . the North sea oil and gas industry be not just part of the economy in Aberdeenshire , but the bedrock on which our community and my constituent in Gordon and Buchan have build their livelihood for generation . it be not just about the direct job in the industry and the associate service in the hospitality sector , for example . an overall economic ecosystem have develop , and that be why it be critical that we manage the energy transition properly , so that the north - east of Scotland do not become the next region to suffer industrial decline as the mining area do . I be sure that the Secretary of State , the Minister and the Labour party do not want that on their record . the Government ' s plan for great British Energy , couple with the energy profit levy , put the industry at risk at this vital time . the propose increase and the removal of the investment allowance could be a death knell for investment in our area . let I be clear : this be not about protect the profit of large company just for profit ' sake ; it be about protect the job and skill and future of our community . offshore Energies UK have warn that the tax increase could see investment in the UK cut , and that they might fall from £ 14 . 1 billion to £ 2 . 3 billion between now and 2029 . that be not scaremongere ; it be what the industry be face . we can take today ' s figure of £ 14 . 1 billion of private investment and compare that with what the Government be suggest : £ 8 . 3 billion of public investment into GB Energy just to create an investment vehicle . we already have an investment stream in the north - east of Scotland . it be not Government money that be need , but a stable , fair , globally competitive market for our national and multinational company . they will do the business . public money to create GB Energy while simultaneously introduce these punitive taxation and other measure that be project to drive away investment just do not make sense , because the same investment in capital , skill and personnel that we need for our energy security today be also vital for an effective and efficient transition to clean energy . I have a number of question for the Government about great British Energy , and I will start with job security and creation . how will great british Energy protect exist job in Aberdeenshire ' s energy sector ? we have already see a significant loss of job due to the oil price downturn and market uncertainty . the Government boast that great British Energy will create 650 , 000 new job , 69 , 000 of which be project to be in Scotland , but we need specific . figure have be provide at a regional level across England , but we have only one figure for the whole of Scotland . the distribution of job in Scotland be currently heavily weight towards Aberdeen , Aberdeenshire and the north - east , so no matter how many job might or might not be generate by GB Energy in Scotland , my constituent want and need to know where those job will be . can the Minister confirm when he sum up how many of the job will be in Aberdeenshire and the north - east , what type of role they will be and when they will be create ? already , oil and gas worker be lose their job and move abroad to maintain or progress their career . they be the worker we need for the transition . secondly , we must consider the economic impact on our local community . for example , how will the wealth that flow into our local infrastructure and economy and community project be replicate in the future under great british Energy ? look at the national picture , the Oil and Gas Authority estimate that the total revenue from oil and gas production in the five year to 2024 be £ 5 . 3 billion . be the Secretary of State and the Chancellor willing to sacrifice that in the pursuit of an accelerated transition ? that would be a significant dent in the £ 8 . 3 billion of public investment . we need a balanced approach . we be not against the energy transition , and we recognise that the transition will take time , but rush it could have severe consequence for community such as mine in Gordon and Buchan . we be after net zero , not absolute zero . they be different thing , and we do not need to banish oil and gas from our energy mix immediately in order prematurely to be on the road to net zero . the people of Gordon and Buchan and indeed all of north - east Scotland be not against change . we have be at the forefront of energy innovation for decade , but we need the transition to work for our community and to build their strength , rather than dismantle they . we must protect job . I call on the Government to provide clear answer , not just high - level projection , on how we expect great British Energy to benefit , not harm , the exist industry in Gordon and Buchan . our community have so much to lose if we get this wrong , and they deserve our help with a comprehensive plan , not ideology . I call Uma Kumaran to make her maiden speech . I be grateful for the opportunity to make my maiden speech with my parent and husband in the Gallery today . I congratulate the hon . member for Eastleigh ( Liz Jarvis ) , who give an impassioned speech show how deeply she care for her community , its heritage and , in particular , the history of care for refugee . she speak so lovingly of her late parent . it be the honour of my life to be elect as the first ever MP for Stratford and Bow . I be bear in east London , and I have live in Stratford and in Bow . I study at one of our brilliant local university , Queen Mary . to go from local student to local MP in 20 year have be quite the homecoming . not get our declaration result until nearly 6 am really do bring back memory of stumble home from uni . I pay tribute to the force of nature Lyn Brown , who serve her home , West Ham , as the Member of Parliament for 19 year , and who give a total of 36 year of selfless service to community in Newham . a true east London girl , her guidance and support have be invaluable . I have no doubt that her contribution to the east end and to public life will continue . I also inherit Bow from my hon . friend the Member for Bethnal Green and Stepney ( Rushanara Ali ) . she be another trail - blazer , as the first Bangladeshi - origin woman elect to Parliament . she have inspire a generation with the promise of what be possible . although Stratford and Bow be a new parliamentary constituency , its history be old and rich . the Women ' s Hall at Old Ford Road in Bow be home to Sylvia Pankhurst and Norah Smyth and the headquarters of the East London Federation of Suffragettes from 1914 until 1924 . it be the beat heart of the east end suffrage movement , and the home of the matchgirl ' strike and the large union of woman and girl in the country . every corner be fill with the history of the struggle for woman ' s right and for our voice to be hear ; a history that I will work every day to honour . as a proud grand - daughter of a trade unionist and a member of the GMB union , I go forward in their memory and will continue to fight for work people . part of my constituency have be represent by illustrious political figure , include Charles Key , Keir Hardie , Lansbury and Clement Attlee , who lead the Labour Government that create our beloved NHS — so no pressure on this new member . our stunning Victoria park , with its breathtaking canal , open to the public in 1845 and become the people ' s park : a centre for political meeting and rally with speaker such as William Morris and Annie Besant . it be not just political history that we be bless with in Stratford and Bow . I be sure that many hon . member in the Chamber love nothing more than go home after a long day sit in the Chamber and put on their favourite grime playlist . they can thank Bow for play an integral part in the origin of grime music , with Roman Road and its once - beloved record shop produce artist and crew such as Roll Deep and Skepta to name just two . over in Newham , we have our top boy Kano . I can see that I have completely baffle some hon . member — [ Laughter . ] for those whose taste be a bit more retro , we be also home to ABBA Voyage . my constituency be a place where people can come and spend their money , money , money in some of our brilliant local and international business . of course — it can not be miss — sit at the heart of my constituency be the London stadium : a place of joy and wonder from the 2012 Olympics and some of our most wonderful sporting achievement . as this generation of Team GB paralympian compete in Paris , I send my wish to they . the ability to bring people together that sport possesse be like nothing else , so it be a privilege and honour to be the Member of Parliament for the great club in world football — sorry , Keir — West Ham . as a Hammer since 5 July — [ Laughter ] — I be proud to be forever blow bubble . I know that there be several Hammers fan on the Government Benches and throughout the parliamentary estate — probably more of we than member on the Opposition Benches . Stratford and Bow be a wonderful , vibrant and diverse constituency , and our current heritage live up to that history . Forest Gate be the home of independent caf é s and shop and Forest Gayte Pride , overlook the nature and beauty of Wanstead Flats . there be the bustling shop of Green Street serve community throughout east London , alongside mosque , temple , synagogue , gurdwara and church . it be a place that be truly representative of the rich tapestry of culture and people that make up our great capital city , London . People from all over the world have come to Stratford and Bow to make the UK their home . my constituency be a prime example of Britain at its good , with pearly king and queen , and white , european , Indian , Bengali , Pakistani , chinese , african , asian , middle eastern , caribbean community and more living side by side and work together to make a well society for everyone . wherever someone be from , they be welcome in Stratford and Bow . I be proud , too , to have origin as an east London girl bear in Homerton hospital , but I be bear here but by fate . I be the daughter of Tamil refugee and the child of a community that know what it be like to endure prejudice and persecution . my parent , proud and patriotic british citizen , come to Britain over 40 year ago , but they do not simply come here ; they flee for their life , force to leave behind everything and everyone they know and love , tear from a good and prosperous life in their prime to start from scratch in an unfamiliar country , work multiple job day and night to give I the chance that be take from they . Britain welcome my parent with open arm so that they could rebuild their life and flourish , and it be the east end that they first choose to call their home . this be the London that I know and love , and it be the story of Britain and british value at its good : outward look and compassionate ; a country where people can work hard and triumph . Mum and dad , thank you for everything : your endurance and your will to succeed — [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] you be part of the success story of Britain , and that be a story that can be find in every corner of Stratford and Bow and in every part of Britain , with the hope and aspiration for a well tomorrow that all parent have for their child and the dream of a safe and secure life . it be that hope and determination to fight for a well future that this Labour Government will work hard every day to deliver . whether the people of Stratford and Bow be bear here , come here in search of a well life or just move to the good bit of London — whatever their start in life — I will ensure that their voice be hear and value . I pledge to work day in , day out to tackle the root cause of poverty , to fight for more police on our street so that woman and girl feel safe to walk home at night , parent do not have to worry about knife crime and young man be not have to look over their shoulder when they walk home after dark , and to fight for an NHS that be here for we in our time of need , where patient can be see in ward , not corridor . deliver my maiden speech during the GB Energy debate be apt . climate change remain one of the great challenge of our time , and we must redouble our effort . before I come to this place , I work internationally on climate action with city around the world , the United Nations and civil society to help stop our world go past the point of no return and ensure that generation who come after we have a world that have not be destroy because of our failure to act or our fear of be bold . I feel deeply the responsibility that I have to repay the faith that the people of Stratford and Bow have place in I and the duty that I have to be their voice here in Westminster . I will work every day for that and for the value and pledge that I be elect on . thank you . I call Tom Morrison to make his maiden speech . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate the hon . member for Stratford and Bow ( Uma Kumaran ) on that incredible maiden speech . her pride in her community really shine through and be incredibly infectious . I be truly honour to be give the opportunity to deliver my maiden speech in this House . I begin by pay tribute to my predecessor , Mary Robinson . despite our political difference , I have a good work relationship with she and be fortunate to work with she as part of the Cheadle town fund board , where we help to deliver much - need investment into the constituency , include develop plan for Cheadle train station . I know that Mary take a great interest in local business , and her work on the board be testament to that . I wish both she and her husband Stephen all the good in their next chapter . I will also take this moment to pay tribute to my liberal Democrat predecessor for Cheadle . the incredible Patsy Calton be very much miss and be hold in a great deal of respect across both side of the House . Mark Hunter serve Cheadle for 10 year as its MP and serve in government as an assistant Whip . I have huge shoe to fill follow both Mark and Patsy , who be legend in the constituency . I hope that I can build on their legacy . I will also take a quick moment to thank my incredible team for lead such a brilliant and hard - fight election campaign , and my family for their support . Most of all , I thank my incredible partner Louise for all her love and backing over the year . it be here , however , where I must confess to break my first election pledge . not long before the general election be call , Lou and I find out that we be to be expect our first child . while we be , of course , over the moon , that news come off the back of a very hard local election campaign and amid Lou experience extreme morning sickness . so , be the supportive partner that I be , I assure Lou that this would be a first trimester of absolute peace , tranquillity and calm as there be absolutely no way that the Prime Minister would call a general election in the summer . we all know how that turn out . I put on record my apology to Lou for break that promise . I will endeavour to ensure that be the first and last time I break my word to a constituent . Cheadle be truly a brilliant place . we have wonderful green space , brilliant school and some fantastic high street , but what make the constituency so special be the people . the area be build on the foundation of so many community group and organisation , all campaign and work to make our community a well place for everyone . there be allotment group such as Billy ' s Lane who invite local school to learn about grow food and healthy eat . there be Cheadle Civic Society , lead by the inspirational Phillip Gould - Bourn , who protect Cheadle ' s heritage and historic character . there be many faith group , include Cheadle Masjid , Grove Lane Baptists and Yeshurun Hebrew Congregation , who provide support for our most vulnerable resident , and there be hundred of community organisation and friend ' group , such as the friend of Carr Wood , who be the guardian of some of our most precious green space and rightly challenge those who would do they harm . those be the people who make Cheadle so special , and I thank they for put their faith in I as Cheadle ' s Member of Parliament . I have always say that I would be their voice in Westminster , not Westminster ' s voice in Cheadle . that will always be my goal . there be much to do . our local hospital , Stepping Hill , be in dire need of investment . for too long , staff and patient have have to make do with a hospital that be literally fall apart . the out - patient building be condemn and be now demolish , and in March the intensive care unit , which look after some of the most critical patient , be temporarily close because the ceiling be come in . nurse have even tell I about bucket squad — for the uninitiated , this be a term they have coin for an extra duty they now have on shift , where they each have a bucket to place down when it rain to catch the water come through the roof . this be a disgrace . no hospital , let alone one as busy as Stepping Hill , should operate in those condition . that be why my first act as the Member of Parliament for Cheadle be to write to the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , ask for the fund that Stepping Hill desperately need for repair . I be pleased that the Government have since say that funding will be make available , but until we get the detail and the money , I will keep fight to ensure that Stepping Hill , its staff and its patient get the funding they deserve . I will also keep fight to get my resident the support they need during the cost of living crisis . this be an issue of huge importance to I . when I be 13 , my mum , brother and I be threaten with homelessness because mum , who work several job to make end meet , could not afford the private rent . we face rely on friend who could offer couch or spare room to help we . the idea be sell as a fun holiday to I and my brother , but I can remember how anxious and worry my mum look and how conversation between adult would suddenly stop as I walk into the room . Life feel unsettled , and I could tell that my mum be scared and need help . it be a Lib Dem councillor call David Bruce who help we , by fight and get we a council house . because of he , we have a home , give we the security and stability to get on in life . home be no long an anxious place . Mum be happy , and my brother and I could focus on our schoolwork . that experience inspire I to get into politic , because I see at first hand the positive impact that it can have on people ' s day - to - day life . without that councillor , I can honestly say I would not be stand here today . but that be not the end of our story . we still struggle . face with rise bill , mum would sometimes have to decide whether to put money into the electric meter or food into the cupboard . if I think about it , I can still hear the clunk of the pay meter go off and plunge the house into darkness . Mum would often joke that that be the cue for we to go to bed . sadly , I know from speak to my constituent that this story be still be live out all too frequently . the choice that many family have to make be horribly familiar . the choice to heat their home or feed their child should never be force on anyone , yet thousand of family across Stockport face that choice every day . I be proud that the Liberal Democrats on Stockport council lead the way by establish a warm space programme , support community organisation with the fund to help shelter vulnerable resident who could not afford to heat their home during the winter month . many authority be now do that across the country , but as wonderful as that is , we can not sit back and accept this situation . great British Energy be a step in the right direction . I welcome the move to restore british investment in clean energy , and if Great British Energy actually bring down cost for my constituent , that will be nothing but a good thing . I will do all I can to help my resident in Cheadle . when it come to the cost of living , I will hold this Government to account when I believe they be not do enough to support those who need it . well health service , support for the cost of live crisis and champion my amazing community — those be some of the thing that I will do as Cheadle ' s Member of Parliament . it be truly the honour of my life to be stand here work for the place I call home — the place I be now raise my family . I hope I will do Cheadle proud here . I call Jayne Kirkham to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Cheadle ( Mr Morrison ) , whose experience and passion will be of great benefit to both his constituent and his local hospital , and to my hon . friend the Member for Stratford and Bow ( Uma Kumaran ) , who will be a very worthy successor to those suffragette . it be a real honour and a privilege to be stand here as the MP for Truro and Falmouth . I arrive in Cornwall quite by accident nearly 20 year ago , have be sweep off my foot by a naval pilot who tempt I away from life as a London trade union lawyer , with image of beach and sunset . he fly search and rescue helicopter at Culdrose naval station . unfortunately , as be often the case , our military marriage be short , and I be leave as a single mum with a small son . but I choose to stay and bring he up in Cornwall , and it be very much our home . become a single parent be sudden and difficult , but I be fortunate . I benefit from the opportunity offer by the last Labour Government and be able to get back on my foot . I retrain and take a job as a teaching assistant work in a local secondary school for seven year , first in special educational need and later as an unqualified teacher , which show the journey that education have be on . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Cherilyn Mackrory . she serve in a number of role in this place ; she show her passion for the environment in her work on the Environmental Audit Committee and as chair of the ocean conservation all - party parliamentary group . she also draw on her own personal experience to help other . she do a huge amount to shape the woman ' s health strategy and maternity safety awareness , and be integral in introduce the new pregnancy loss certificate . both Cherilyn and her predecessor , Sarah Newton , work to secure a new woman and child ' s unit at Treliske hospital in Truro , one of the previous Government ' s 40 new hospital or unit . it be desperately need and a long time come . I have my son in the exist unit nearly 19 year ago , and the building be not fit for purpose then . I really want to ensure its speedy completion . Truro and Falmouth have exist as a constituency only since 2010 . it sit in the middle of the Duchy of Cornwall , spread from Falmouth on the south coast to Crantock on the north coast . Falmouth be my home , and where I have sit as a councillor for the past six year . it be a vibrant and welcome town envelop by the ocean . Falmouth have play its part in the history of Great Britain . in the late 1600 , the town be appoint the Royal Mail packet station , receive and send mail and message all around the globe , make Falmouth — for 150 year at least — the information super - highway of the british empire . however , Falmouth be more than its seafaring past . we still have two splendid castle , Pendennis and St Mawes , protect the entrance to the Carrick Roads , but the constituency be also the site of Falmouth University , build on the legacy of the famous art school that be still find on Woodlane , but now anchor across the border in the state - of - the - art Tremough campus in Penryn , which it share with the University of Exeter . the area brim with creative , scientist and engineer — whom Dawn French , the university ' s chancellor , describe as " enterprise dreamer " . if we follow the River Fal upwards , we reach Truro , Cornwall ' s capital and only city , with its impressive cathedral and award - win theatre Hall for Cornwall . it have Lys Kernow , the home of Cornwall council , as well as Treliske , the acute hospital . the constituency also have a large rural element , with an array of beautiful village and area such as the Roseland peninsula , where farming and fishing be still vital industry . when research for this speech , I be strike by the word in the maiden speech of one of Cornwall ' s most well known and love Members of Parliament , David Penhaligon . exactly 50 year ago in this House , he refer to an economy that rely on tourism , traffic condition in the summer month that strangle much of the industry that keep the place go for the rest of the year , tremendous pressure on hospital service , sewage problem , pressure on housing , the problem of summer let and the low average wage in Britain . I be pleased that the measure in this Government ' s programme — a real living wage , the water Bill , devolution and renter right — will help to address some of those issue , but it be shocking that many of the issue that he mention then be , sadly , still very much in evidence today , half a century on . for a place on the edge of the map , Cornwall be too often at the edge of our thought in this place . like Penhaligon , I believe that Cornwall , with its proud and independent heritage , deserve well . turn to the topic of this debate , there be so much to be excite by . as well as Cornwall ' s potential for onshore wind , we have 20 % of Europe ' s requirement for critical mineral and geothermal energy beneath our foot , bury in our granite . we only have to look at a horizon dot with the ruin of engine house to know that the people of Cornwall be more than happy to dig for their treasure . Falmouth be a town with its face turn to the sea . the port still have a very busy harbour and dock , which have business service both military and commercial ship , as well as host cruise and leisure vessel . but there be potential for so much more , and the port of Falmouth be poise to take advantage of a new generation of offshore wind production in the Celtic sea . with the support of the new energy company GB Energy , the £ 1 . 8 billion port fund and investment in the skill train we so desperately need , our young people will be able to grasp with both hand the well - pay job of the future , while secure our own home - grow energy and face down the challenge of climate change — a challenge that be so important to a place like Cornwall , which stare the impact of the change climate in the face every day . we be the first large rural authority to declare a climate emergency and the 2030 net zero target . now , we will play our part in get the country to meet a similarly ambitious target . falmouth ' s time truly have come again as part of the Government ' s mission to become a clean energy superpower . Truro and Falmouth be the most magical place to live . it well and truly hook I and my small family , and have become part of I . my journey , despite its up and down , have be a charmed and happy one . Truro and Falmouth have give so much to I , and it be overflow with promise and brilliant , independent - minded enterprise dreamer . I be determined to serve my home as well as it have serve I . a bright future lie ahead for it . I congratulate the hon . member for Truro and Falmouth ( Jayne Kirkham ) on a really wonderful maiden speech . it be hearten to see how much love and passion she have for she adopt home in Cornwall — and who do not like Cornwall ? I be sure her constituent will be tremendously well serve by the passion we see just now . the Government must accept that the message around GB Energy be muddle at the very least during the election . it be almost as though it be rush through as a manifesto headline , rather than result from the strategic development of careful , think - out , optimise planning , but there we be . we understand that there will be limit co - production from the company , no retail arm and no public sector comparator role . it will be a provider that do not do much provision and a decider that do not make any decision . talk about net zero — there be zero detail in the Bill to give we an indication of what will actually happen on the ground . it be go to sell energy to the public , and then it be not . it be go to generate energy . then it be not , and now it will again . I think we be still in that space . I hear in the Secretary of State ' s open remark that there have now be a modification to the brand : it be now GB energy generating company . the " generating " bit have be shoehorn in there at the last minute to try to make it a little bit more believable . it that will not own any asset outright , but will make a return on the sale of energy from the wholesale market by the principal operator of the energy scheme it latch itself on to . well , I can see why the labour part never put that on a leaflet — goodness I . why be it not consider a Government trading fund ? it be not a company ; it be a Government trading fund that they be brand as a company . it absolutely meet all the criterion of the Government Trading Funds Act 1973 , so it would be interesting to know why that be . I do not doubt the Secretary of State ' s commitment in this area . I have see it over the past five year . I be sorry that his initial , much more ambitious plan for £ 28 billion have be torpedo by the Treasury and his right hon . friend the Chancellor . if he be feel sorry for himself , he can speak to the million of pensioner around these island whose ambition for the future have also be torpedo by the Chancellor and the Treasury . on a substantive note about the lack of detail in the Bill , it be a great pity that the Government want we to believe that clean energy mean energy produce from source other than fossil fuel . it be hard to imagine a more one - dimensional analysis and qualification than that . it be narrow and incoherent , and out of step with the science and the public . it do not really matter where or what carbon be lock into . if you burn it to release carbon dioxide in the process of make energy , then you be a carbon emitter contribute to the climate crisis . it be as simple as that . we should not be hostage to a technology where hundred of million of pound in Government subsidy be use to create million of tonne of co2 a year . we know that subsidy for large - scale biomass generator in England will end in 2027 — I know the Minister be up to speed on that — and the Government claim they be review evidence on potential support beyond this . will the Minister , in sum up , be clear with Parliament today ? do he believe that chop down million of tree on the other side of the world and ship they to England , to then burn they to make electricity , be acceptable ? if not , will he commit to end public subsidy for large - scale biomass in 2027 ? I be glad to hear the hon . Gentleman be concerned about the chop down of tree . do he accept that in Scotland 13 million tree be chop down to put up windmill ? I hesitate to thank the right hon . member for his intervention — [ Laughter . ] I will need to fact check his 13 million figure — I will get back to he on that . but let we be really clear — I will touch on onshore wind in a minute — that once those tree be burn in a former coal - fire power station , the only product be co2 and electricity , but where tree have be clear to create onshore wind in Scotland , there be a lifetime of renewable , clean cheap energy come out the other side , so it be a false comparator if ever I see one . do the Government believe that waste to energy be also clean energy ? that do not seem to be what GB Energy should pursue , and I be not certain there be much support for that in the country . maybe the right hon . Gentleman should have make his intervention in a minute , because I remain unclear on this point . the Bill set out that it apply to Scotland , Wales , Northern Ireland and England . however , constitutionally and administratively , in policy term I do not see how it can apply to Northern Ireland . if the Minister could update we on what possible role GB Energy have in the entirely different energy market that exist in Northern Ireland , that would be helpful . community energy be essential to how we make our journey to net zero , but like much else there be scant detail on that . if the Government have properly consult the community energy sector — they can probably still do that — they would know that access to consumer be one of the principal drawback to develop these scheme . it be disappointing that no lateral thinking be be apply on how to connect the will to create community energy with the market . Ofgem have create an environment where one can deliver an extraordinary example of community electricity generation , but try to connect with consumer be almost impossible . GB Energy , if it be nothing else — and it do appear to be not much else — could have be part of the gig economy . it could have be the Uber of retail energy . we could have buy community energy and pass it on to the consumer base , but that be not go to happen . the Government want to mirror the ambition of Vattenfall or EDF , but those company , which be actually company , sell to the retail market . will the Government update we on the paltry amount that the previous Government allocate to community energy ? it be £ 10 million just for England . what will GB Energy deliver ? push ahead , zonal energy be one of the most important transformation that can come into the energy market on GB . the Government advise that electricity market reform be key — order . we now come to a maiden speech . I call Perran Moon . I call Perran Moon to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to make my maiden speech during a debate that be so relevant to my own wonderful constituency of Camborne , Redruth and Hayle , in the heart of Cornwall . I come to this place — and I be disappointed that the hon . member for Harwich and North Essex ( Sir Bernard Jenkin ) be not present to hear I say this — with 30 year of business experience in the automotive sector and , latterly , in the renewable electricity sector . I thank all those who have give their maiden speech today ; they be all truly heartfelt , wonderful speech . my own inspiration for be here come from my three child , my daughter and my two son , who join we in the Public Gallery today . I want first to pay tribute to my predecessor , George Eustice , for his work on animal welfare as Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , as well as his support for local project in Cornwall such as Kresen Kernow , the cornish archive , and — despite our profound difference on our relationship with the EU — the honourable way in which he be prepared to criticise trade arrangement make by the conservative party . it be an unparalleled privilege to represent one ' s home constituency , and the tie that bind cornish man and woman to our homeland be weave into every sinew of our being . the constituency of Camborne , Redruth and Hayle be a truly remarkable place : the place where I be bear and grow up and where I live . to understand Camborne , Redruth and Hayle , I respectfully ask you , Madam Deputy Speaker , to transport yourself in your mind to the summit of a single rocky hill , smack bang in the middle of the constituency . this rocky hill be call Carn Brea , which be , in fact , Cornish for " rocky hill " . at the summit of Carn Brea sit the Basset monument , look down from 750 foot across the constituency . the monument be fund by public subscription in 1836 after Basset himself petitioned the other place against slavery in 1828 . to the north of Carn Brea , just 4 mile away , the Celtic sea sparkle in the sunlight and lap the beautiful beach of Gwithian , Portreath , Porthtowan , St Agnes and Perranporth — the Celtic sea , which offer the prospect of vast quantity of electricity generate from offshore wind , an opportunity that I dearly hope this Government will grasp . look to the west from Carn Brea we see the town of Camborne , pronounce " Kammbronn " in Cornish , mean " crooked hill " . it be a town that , along with its near neighbour Redruth , be synonymous with our tin mining heritage . the two town be once among the wealthy in Britain , help to drive the economy for more than four century . nestle in front of Camborne , a large flag of St Piran flutter in the breeze . this flag sit at the top of the South Crofty tin mine . there can be no fine physical symbol of the potential for the return of the cornish economic powerhouse than South Crofty — the last tin mine to close , in 1998 . the economic wind have dramatically change since then , and tin , which be use in the production of virtually every electrical device , be now also be use in the production of solar panel and , along with lithium , form the cornerstone of our critical mineral industry . we import tin from as far afield as China and Australia , with all the damaging environmental impact that come with such import , yet in Camborne and Redruth we sit on the third high - grade tin deposit in the world , and there be plenty of it . our sense of pride in our mining heritage , which be mention by my hon . friend the Member for Truro and Falmouth ( Jayne Kirkham ) , and the possibility of our tin mining renaissance be a constant source of hope and optimism for an area that have be damn by industrial decline for decade . but back to the summit of Carn Brea and basset ' s monument . far over to the west , on the horizon behind Camborne , be Hayle , the third large town in the constituency . although the official title of my constituency be Camborne and Redruth , woe betide I if I do not mention Hayle in the same breath . Hayle be a vital natural seaport , ready to serve the new opportunity in the Celtic sea , and it include a very large estuary . indeed , the cornish word for estuary be hayl . I have strong familial tie with the town , where my great - uncle , the Slade family , once run a steel engineering business on South Quay . let we look directly south from Carn Brea now , to the gentle rolling hill lead down through the beautiful cornish granite village of Stithians , Mawnan Smith and Constantine , and then on to the two stunning subtropical garden of Glendurgan and Trebah , which , in turn , lead down to the Helford river , from where thousand of american troop set off on D - day to free Europe from fascism . to the east of Carn Brea lie Redruth , the Cornish meaning of which be " red ford " , the cornish word for " red " be " ruth " and the word for " ford " be " red " — obviously ! redruth be rapidly become a cultural hub , and I strongly recommend visit to Krowji creative hub , Kresen Kernow — the aforementione archive centre — the Buttermarket , and the Ladder art and culture hub . our former prosperity be evident throughout the centre of Redruth , with impose granite building that be awaken with new life after a deep slumber . far to the east , beyond Redruth , can be find the village of Carharrack and St Day , which serve as a hub for one of the world ' s wealthy copper mining district from the 16th century to the 1830 . just beyond they be United Downs , where Cornish Lithium , Geothermal Engineering and ground source heat pump company be base . these business have the potential to play key role in Britain ' s economic transformation . we have tin , lithium , geothermal and ground source heat , but we be also bless with the opportunity of offshore wind in the Celtic sea , onshore wind , solar and tidal . there be very few place in the UK in which renewable energy and critical mineral opportunity be so abundant . the renewable energy opportunity be not the only factor that make this land so distinct . let I quickly give three other example . first , 10 year ago Cornwall be grant national minority status under the european framework convention for the protection of national minority . our language , our culture and our heritage , as well as our economic potential , mark we out on this island . secondly , the positive reaction receive by all six cornish mps on both side of the House for take our oath in Cornish be tell . almost half our child and young people consider themselves first and foremost Cornish . finally , on Saturday my brother Dickon will be make a bard of the Gorsedh , the high honour that can be bestow on a cornish man or woman . this be an honour award to people who have give exceptional service to Cornwall by a manifestation of the celtic spirit or by service to Cornwall . it be these cultural difference that mark we out . it have be clear on the doorstep over the past two year that there be a strong desire for a non - mayoral model of governance arrangement with Westminster . my hope and my focus in the come week and month will be to persuade the Government that the most appropriate devolution arrangement for Cornwall be an Assembly similar to that of our celtic cousin in Wales . in term of economic development , culture and governance , the time have come to throw open the cage door and unleash the cornish celtic tiger . for my part , I will put all my energy into represent the people of Camborne , Redruth and Hayle to the good of my ability . to do so will be the honour of my life . Meur ra — thank you . rise — order . because so many member wish to contribute , I ask those make maiden speech to keep they short than five minute if they can manage it . the time limit for member with a bit more experience , who be not make their maiden speech , be now reduce to five minute . I have be enjoy the maiden speech today , particularly those of the hon . member for Truro and Falmouth ( Jayne Kirkham ) and for Camborne and Redruth ( Perran Moon ) . have enjoy a week ' s holiday in Cornwall last week , I have enjoy hear even more about Cornwall today . I be pleased to speak in this debate and to have the opportunity to welcome the Bill , particularly the commitment that it show to achieve net zero emission from the electricity grid by 2030 . an exciting revolution in the way we produce and use energy be take place . it be vital that there be new support and incentive to directly accelerate renewable development , give the sector the confidence to invest and innovate that come from the long - term predictability that we need . the Bill be an important step in the right direction . I hope that as it progress through Parliament , we can have a constructive debate about be even more ambitious , in line with the climate science , and , crucially , about how we take the public with we . I be sure that we will return to that subject in future discussion , but today I will highlight three particular gap that I hope the Minister will address in his wind - up speech . the first gap , which have already be refer to , be the opportunity to reflect that the climate and nature crisis go hand in hand . I know that the Secretary of State recognise that point and recognise that renewable energy development can go hand in hand with protect carbon - rich habitat and deliver more nature - base solution on land and at sea , so it be disappointing that the Bill do not give Great British Energy a remit to contribute to nature ' s recovery alongside accelerate the scale and pace of renewable energy delivery . a nature recovery duty would mean meeting climate target and contribute to biodiversity target set under the Environment Act 2021 . it would mean automatically bake wildlife - friendly design into renewable energy project development from the outset . I also highlight the need to bake farming - friendly design into renewable energy development . the second area on which I invite the Secretary of State or the Minister to respond be the glaring and gape hole in the propose legislation — namely , the failure to use the opportunity to more explicitly and definitively rule out the drilling and burning of new fossil fuel project . a net zero carbon plan have to involve cease to use fossil fuel , not just increase renewable . put simply , fossil fuel increase carbon emission . we have hear from the UN Secretary - General that fossil fuel be literally cook our planet , and far more need to be do to remove their use . although we have recently see some encouraging development from the Government in make it clear that they will not defend the legal challenge to , for example , the Rosebank oilfield , they could go far far , so why not use this Bill to far reduce the UK ' s exposure to price volatility and household ' exposure to energy price shock by make it crystal clear that great British Energy will not be allow to facilitate , encourage or participate in any project base on fossil fuel ? the third area I want to highlight be community energy , to which other member have draw attention today . like other member , I have a community project in my constituency ; it be in the village of Palgrave , where there be a community - own wind turbine on the playing field . I hear the Secretary of State talk about community energy early , so perhaps we just need clarification of the Government ' s intention , but the legislation do not appear to explicitly mention community energy , despite its huge potential . I hope that this be an unintended omission , and that the Minister or the Secretary of State can confirm that there will be community energy representation on the governance structure of great British Energy , notably from the co - operative that be such a big part of the sector . I put on record my support for the excellent Local Electricity Bill , which win significant support in the last Parliament . I very much hope that the proposal in it be take forward , include by enable renewable energy generation scheme to sell directly to local people and make sure that that be act on without delay . in conclusion , I welcome this Bill and commend the Government for bring it forward . great British Energy have the potential to make a game - change difference , but I would welcome clarification on the level of ambition need in the area that I have highlight . thank you for respect the time limit . I call Dr Simon Opher to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank the hon . member for Waveney Valley ( Adrian Ramsay ) for his support for this really exciting piece of legislation — one of the most exciting in our manifesto . I be delighted to be make my maiden speech during a debate on renewable energy . Stroud have be a centre for sustainability and the environment for many year . I thank my constituent for support I . I have be a gp in Dursley , which be part of Stroud , for 30 year . I have look after my patient there through thick and thin , through the most heart - rend moment and through the most joyous moment , and it have be an absolute privilege . to be honest , I slightly miss they in this place . I would like to pay tribute to my predecessor , Siobhan Baillie . Siobhan be always so cheerful and positive , and I really admire she for that . she also squeeze the last government into introduce what be probably their good bit of legislation , which be about childcare . this government be continue that and make sure that we deliver it . People who know Siobhan will know that she also have a lot well hair than I do . [ interruption . ] thank you very much — I will move on hastily . I would also like to pay tribute to my labour predecessor , David Drew , who be probably the good constituency MP I ever meet . he be still very well love in the area , and be still involve in local politic . he have give I lot of piece of advice . one of they be to be yourself , which be good advice for all of we . I thank he for that . my father actually say that there be quite a lot of similarity between be an MP and be a gp . he say , " first of all , both of you have surgery , don ' t you ? " I think about this more , and I think about what I tell the doctor I train : " as a gp , you have to know the first three thing about everything , which be true for mps as well . you do not have to be an expert on anything , but you have to know a little bit about everything . " I have certainly learn a lot about that . both GPs and MPs also need to be embed in their community . but probably the most important thing to be a good doctor and a good MP be listen , not talk . the good doctor and the good mp be the good listener . Stroud be the most beautiful area , and its hill and valley be make famous by Laurie Lee in " cider with Rosie " , which member may have read . a previous gp in the area , about 200 year ago , be Dr Edward Jenner . he be in Berkeley in my constituency , and he discover vaccination . he save the most life in history , so we must honour he . vaccination be transformative for health . one of the big benefit of the pandemic be that we develop mrna vaccine , which in the future will be use to treat cancer . this new therapy be really exciting . Stroud be also home to cut - edge company , include Renishaw in the engineering industry . ecotricity , own by Dale Vince , have be at the cutting edge of sustainable energy for many year . we also have the fantastic Forest Green Rovers , the world ' s only carbon - neutral football club . they be also vegan . sadly , they be relegate from the football league this year , but I promise they will be back . I hope they will be , anyway . Dale Vince build the first wind turbine on Tinkley Lane in 1996 , and there be a lesson there , because there be incredible local opposition to it for year . People do not like it , but now it have come to be accept . this be the future . many of we have speak about community energy , which we have be develop in Stroud . we now have six project . Waitrose will have solar panel on its roof , and we be go to cover the hospital with solar panel . there be a scheme to put solar panel on every public building , which will save have to put they on farmland . I recommend such scheme . a number of my constituent be currently in prison for climate activism . although I do not condone their protest in any way , I ask the Home Secretary to review their really excessive sentence , and I ask organisation such as just stop oil to get behind we . we be the green Government this country have ever see , so will they stop protest and start build with we ? community be really important in Stroud . we have community hub throughout the constituency . one of the good be GL11 in Cam , run by Indigo Redfern . its volunteer look after vulnerable people . we have the country ' s old community agriculture scheme , and we have a big scheme that buy community shop . when pub close in little village , we buy they , too . we be also look at buy land to protect it for people to use . I work in May Lane surgery for so long , and I praise the doctor , the nurse and all the reception staff for continue to deliver extraordinary care to patient . general practice be deliver extraordinary care throughout the country , but we be in a certain amount of crisis . we have very low morale , and everyone be complain about not be able to get a GP appointment , so I be proud that this Government will fix general practice by invest , innovate and make sure that patient receive the service they receive in 2010 . another thing I would like to say on innovation be that , about 25 year ago , I introduce an artist in residence at my surgery to treat patient with mental ill health , and I manage to prove that it be incredibly effective . we then expand into green prescribing , get people to take walk . we have poet in nursing home , and we start prescribe allotment . these non - medical prescription be crucial , and they save the NHS money , because people realise they do not need medicine to make they well . the art be crucial . we must support this country ' s world - class art sector , and we must use it to make ourselves well . I will come to a conclusion . when I first arrive in the House , I be talk to some of the wonderful parliamentary staff who look after new mps so well . one of they say , " it be strange , because it be like there have be a generational change in the Commons . a wind have blow through the Commons and replace what we have before with much young member " — not I , by the way — " and many more woman . it be really ethnically diverse and there be LGBT people as well . it be like a fresh wind have come in . " I feel that offer a real opportunity for we to deliver real change in this country . my father be 90 . he be go to be here today , but he could not make it , which be really sad . he have be a lifelong socialist and labour party member . he say in 2019 , " I will probably never see another Labour Government , " but he have get to see one . let we make this work and work hard to deliver renewable energy , so we can bring down the cost of power and change the whole environment of the country . I think I be stick on the vegan football club ! the first two month of this Labour Government have not be good news for electricity consumer . first , the promise to save £ 300 per year on bill be demote in the King ' s Speech to , " we will do it in due course . " then , during the recess , there be the announcement that the £ 300 for pensioner to help with winter fuel cost would be remove because the Government place the importance of reward their trade union paymaster above the need of vulnerable pensioner . just this week , the Government announce they would help the big energy company and fill their pocket with extra money , guarantee those energy company price that be currently above the market rate for electricity . the company will be guarantee those price for x number of year , but if the rate change to their benefit in the future , they can change the contract and they will be guarantee a market for their dear electricity . who will pay for that generosity ? the consumer . today we be debate a Bill that set up a quango . despite the fact there be a £ 20 billion black hole in the budget , the Government can find enough money to finance a new quango . all of this will be pay for by the electricity consumer . in his impassioned speech , the Secretary of State tell we that it would be impossible to envisage anybody vote against the Bill and that , in fact , the country be clamour for it . I have to say I have not have any constituent hammer on my door tell I , " be there on Thursday , Sammy , and vote for this Bill . " in fact , I suspect if many member of the public be ask about GB Energy , they would probably think it be a new drink rather than some important Government Bill . the Government have promise that they will create 17 , 000 new job in Northern Ireland , even though , as the hon . member for Angus and Perthshire Glens ( Dave Doogan ) point out , the constitutional jurisdiction of the Bill do not even cover Northern Ireland . if one consider the Windsor framework and the fact that Northern Ireland be still under single market rule , many of the provision in the Bill and the subsidy the Government be claim could not be apply in Northern Ireland . will the Minister confirm what role the Bill will have in Northern Ireland ? the Government ' s main point be that the creation of great British Energy will bring down price for electricity consumer . the fact be that this Bill be all about have to spend money on new infrastructure to generate power well away from the centre of population , as well as put in infrastructure to take that power to the consumer . that will require billion of pound of investment . the Government say it will be do by the private sector , as if that solve it all . of course , if the private sector put in that investment , it will require a return . where will that return come from ? it will come from the consumer . we already know , as it have be point out , that , accord to Ofgem , two third of people ' s electricity cost in the first quarter of this year be as a result of non - fuel cost . they include the cost of the infrastructure , the environmental policy , and the administration and the operate cost of the grid . extend the grid , which we will have to do , will incur further cost and put up the price of electricity . that be why the Minister could not guarantee that the £ 300 saving will be deliver . he know that the massive cost of change our system will be bear by the electricity consumer . whether we regard net zero as good or bad , let we not hide from the fact that it will cost people right across society . it will lead to industry face high cost , and consumer face high cost and great fuel poverty . I call Michelle Scrogham to make her maiden speech . I be grateful to be make my maiden speech in this debate on the great british Energy Bill . give my constituency ' s link to energy production at the Morecambe Bay gasfield , it be in a unique position to be a leader in clean green energy with offshore wind and tidal power . Spirit Energy have ambitious plan to convert our deplete gasfield and onshore terminal into a world - class carbon storage cluster . this project will support our net zero ambition , along with provide thousand of highly skilled green job in Cumbria , support the transition from oil and gas . the plan will bring a multi - billion - pound investment locally , promote growth and further regional investment that will assist we in make our local economy more sustainable . I congratulate all those who have make their maiden speech today , include my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) . it have be inspire to witness so many incredible maiden speech over the past few month . it have be fascinating to hear those gem of information about people and place , as member speak about their constituency with such passion , and the many varied path and often move story that have bring they to this House . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Simon fall . we disagree on many matter over the year , but his commitment to BAE Systems and the nuclear deterrent be clear and something on which we could both very much agree . his kind and generous advice during the election campaign be gratefully receive and I would encourage everyone in this House to behave in a similar manner . I wish my grandma could be here to see I today , as she would , like the rest of my family , be burst with pride . she would no doubt remind I of the time that she take I to the cinema when I be a toddler . I have decide to make myself comfortable , so I kick off my shoe to watch the film . part way through , I climb off my seat and , with instant regret , find that I have step on an ice cream lid . the cold and sticky ice cream quickly seep through my sock . so angry be four - year - old I that I turn to face the whole audience , and , with hand on hip , loudly demand to know who be responsible , declare that whoever it be should come and pick it up . my grandma be understandably mortify by my outburst during the film , and it be 20 year before she confess that it be her ice cream lid . I could not be prouder to be not only the first local to be elect as MP for Barrow and Furness , but the first ever female to hold this very privileged position . I start my career in banking way back in the ' 80 , but find very quickly that my passion would take I elsewhere . with an insuppressible drive to call out injustice , my mouth soon ensure that I be elect as our union rep , and within a couple of year I be ask to take on that role for the north - west region . I will never forget how I feel when my manager take I aside to tell I that , if I accept that responsibility , I could kiss goodbye to my career in banking . I do not need time to think about it ; I take the job . there be nothing in this world more likely to make I dig my heel in than a bully . my constituency be well know for many thing . we have be world leader in ironwork , with the founder of Barrow export railway to the world . they understand that , for a secure economy , we need more than one industry and create the jute manufacturing business that become a world leader in its own right . the ironwork eventually become a shipyard where we now build our nuclear deterrent , the most complex piece of engineering on the planet , and we be the only place in the UK that be capable of do that . we protect our nation — a source of great pride to we locally — with the industry that be the backbone of the economy in Barrow and Furness , and many other town across the UK , in a supply chain of ten of thousand of job . our coastline be home to many area of natural beauty and protect habitat — from Ravenglass , where people can explore on a mini steam train , visit Muncaster Castle with its rich history and bird of prey , or enjoy the truly unspoiled area that be the western Lake district ; all the way down to Walney Island nature reserve , with its adorable grey seal and stunning view , not least of which be its view of the island of Piel , which host its own king no less . tradition hold that the landlord of the sole pub , while sit in an ancient chair , carry a sword and wear a helmet , be crown by the pouring of alcohol over their head . shout out to John Murphy , our local historian and former Mayor of Barrow , for his fantastic walking tour to Piel . Morecambe bay and the Duddon estuary be our playground , and my hometown of Ulverston , which early this year be report to be one of the most vibrant town in the UK , be know as the festival town , and have well and truly earn its title . there be festival for everything from walk , Walkfest , to printing , Printfest ; comedy and music , with a tenuous link to Laurel and Hardy ' s " another Fine Mess " , Finefest ; and my favourite , the one I help to organise each year , Dickensian . the hashtag for that one make headline news in Japan , and I will leave member to work it out for themselves . [ laughter . ] I have be incredibly lucky that I be able to take time out when my child be little and build a business on the high street with my sister . those 20 year , through recession , online shopping , out - of - town retail and covid , be a steep learning curve , but one that I would not change for the world . our high street be one of my passion . they be the very heart of our community and Britain ' s big employer — worthy of nurture , protect and revitalise . I very much welcome our plan and the opportunity to support they in this Government . we have many famous son and daughter from Barrow and Furness . Stan Laurel , comedy giant and half of the duo Laurel and Hardy , be bear in Ulverston . my apology to my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) ; his town have be try to claim Stan Laurel for year , but he be definitely an Ulverston lad . Dalton , the ancient capital of Furness , be birthplace and early home of famous painter George Romney , and Tommy Johnson , the third - high goal scorer for Man City , who make five appearance for England and score in every single match . that might be a bit too far back for most to remember , because he be bear in 1901 , but other Barrow - bear football hero be Emlyn Hughes , whose statue now grace Abbey Road in Barrow , and Georgia Stanway , who I believe be now overdue her own statue for her achievement in the England squad . while we be on football , I have to say good luck to the Barrow Bluebirds in their upcoming match against Chelsea — you have great football gene on your side , so let ' s have it ! Sir John Barrow , famous son of Ulverston , become the second secretary to the admiralty — to you and I , that be in charge of the Navy . he write the report that become the basis for what we now know as the mutiny on the Bounty . he be the last man to shake Lord Nelson ' s hand as he depart on HMS Victory for Trafalgar , and be a great promotor of Arctic voyage of discovery , with many place around the globe now name after he , include Barrow strait , Cape Barrow and Point Barrow in Alaska , but oddly not barrow - in - furness . I have fight long and hard to give a voice to our resident as their councillor and mayor , and I have often be anger by decision that cost our community dearly . next week , our Lib Dem council will decide the fate of one of the busy library in Cumbria — the last remain community space that be free to use , where many community group ensure that a vital safety net be provide , and where no matter what someone ' s background or financial position be , they have a safe place to learn and achieve . I hope that the council will listen to the 3 , 000 - plus people who have sign a petition to save it , and decide to work with I and local business to secure its future . our local community group and third sector organisation have prove vital in recent year , and I be a strong believer that most problem have a solution at grassroots level , through community group such as the Roxy Collective , Drop Zone , Women ' s Community Matters , the Ulverston Resilience Group , Community Solutions , and Furness Refugee Support to name just a few — or Love Barrow Families , whose work be so life change for some that they return as volunteer to give that same gift to other . in my role as MP for Barrow and Furness , I want to give their voice more power . I want to bring community group together with resident and business , big and small , as that be how community work at its good , for the betterment of everyone in it . many mps make unique claim in their maiden speech . if I be a gambling woman , I would bet that I be the only MP to be married to a lighthouse keeper — I be hope the weather be okay back home , because he be sit in the Gallery now . [ laughter . ] my well half be the senior lighthouse keeper in charge of the Sir John Barrow monument , a copy of the Eddystone lighthouse that stand on top of Hoad hill and welcome the people of Furness home . finally , I encourage all hon . member to come and visit Barrow and Furness — but with a fair warning that several of they will , of course , feel obliged to return to this Chamber and correct the record on which be the good constituency . I congratulate the hon . member for Barrow and Furness ( Michelle Scrogham ) on that excellent speech . the vision of a landlord with a sword serve alcohol be an interesting one . I also congratulate the other who have make maiden speech , and in particular the hon . member for Northampton South ( Mike Reader ) . Northampton South be where I grow up and first go to school , and I be still a passionate supporter of the Northampton Saints . I have long be a critic of the excessive level of overseas ownership of our key public utility thank to the failure of the previous conservative regime . some 80 % of our offshore wind industry be overseas - own , so I have some sympathy , the House may be surprised to hear , with some of the aim and ambition of GB Energy . indeed , it may be that the Secretary of State be listen to I a couple of year ago when I talk about this issue . in the spirit of be constructive and helpful to the Minister and the Secretary of State , I wish to put forward a couple of suggestion . my model of joint - venture partial public ownership of monopoly , critical public utility be a 50 : 50 model . in open the debate , the Secretary of State refer to the danish company Ø rste , which be 50 % own by the state and 50 % own primarily by pension fund with private sector management . that be a win - win joint venture . I urge the Secretary of State and the Minister , when they make investment through GB Energy , to focus almost exclusively on 50 : 50 joint venture in which the other 50 % should be private sector investment , preferably from british pension fund on behalf of british pensioner . that way we will get the good of all world , with the quality of private sector management , because the truth be that government can be good at fund thing but be generally very bad at manage thing . I therefore urge the Secretary of State and the Minister , when they consider the investment to be make through GB Energy , to adopt the model of invest only up to 50 % and always ensure that there be private sector investment alongside . of course , the Secretary of State passionately believe that renewable energy will be cheap , so he should have no problem at all with insert into the condition for investment a requirement for confirmation that within the business plan for investment there be a clear goal for the investment to result in cheap energy for british consumer and taxpayer . I urge the Secretary of State and the Minister to adopt that 50 % restriction and consider the need for private sector investment . I call Noah Law to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow I to make this , my first speech to the House . it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Barrow and Furness ( Michelle Scrogham ) . it be the honour of my life to have the chance to represent St Austell and Newquay , the stunning heartland of Cornwall that touch both of our beautiful coastline and that have so greatly shape my life . that range from the springboard that I be give at Fowey community college , to learn to play the violin in Par and to ride the wave at Newquay , or by inspire I to craft a career in finance the kind of natural resource that we be fortunate to have there — I be always available with that experience for Opposition Members who can not quite spot it — and as a campaigner these past few year , where I have hear so many inspiring voice that help I to build the grassroots platform that bring I to this House . it be with deep gratitude that I take my place here , mindful of the trust and responsibility place in I by the people of St Austell and Newquay . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Steve Double , for the work that he do for St Austell and Newquay during his five year in office . Steve be a hard - work MP who champion , among many other thing , the cornish railway and Cornwall ' s pioneer model of tri - service safety officer , both of which I look forward to take up with vigour . St Austell bay , Newquay and the clay country that lie in between mean that we be perhaps the most diverse and therefore representative of cornish seat . from the tributary of the White river that ship our clay to the world , down on the eastern side from Roche , Bugle , Stenalees , Penwithick , Trethurgy and Tregrehan , down past St Blazey and Tywardreath to the great harbour of Par , Charlestown , Mevagissey , Fowey and its peninsula , and to the numerous namesake of St Columba and her parish , Quintrell Downs , St Colan and the village and parish of St Enoder , with Summercourt , Fraddon and Indian Queens . in the west , we have St Stephen - in - Brannel , Grampound , Creed , St Ewe , Sticker , Polgooth , Trewoon , Lanjeth , Foxhole , Nanpean , Treviscoe , St Dennis and Whitemoor — to name a few . with such a patchwork of ancient settlement across this powerhouse of the cornish economy , the House will forgive I for seldom refer to the constituency as rural , despite our wealth of prime farmland that feed our cornish nation , Britain and beyond . not only do St Austell and Newquay feature well - know agrifood , beverage and tourism industry ; it be also the industrial heartland of Cornwall , boast many of the industry we need to build a green future , include renewable , critical mineral and the supply chain that sit behind they . our constituency stand as a testament to Cornwall ' s resilience and ingenuity , blend traditional industry with modern innovation , and I be committed to ensure that this balance continue to flourish , so we can ensure that this once powerhouse of the cornish economy be restore . beyond our unique economic challenge and opportunity , which demand a right to local decision making , we have a distinct celtic heritage , language and national minority status , and a national pride : a pride that be inclusive , whether of family resident here for generation , those of proud northern stock or Windrush stock — or all of the above , like my own family — or those who have choose to make their home in Cornwall more recently . Cornwall ' s heritage be not just a relic of the past but a living , breathe part of our identity , shape our value and aspiration as a community . it be therefore vital that we preserve and promote that heritage for future generation , ensure that it remain a cornerstone of our cultural and social fabric . this new parliamentary session under the Labour Government offer real promise , and I be particularly pleased that they will deliver the large increase in social home in a generation . that will change life , particularly the life of my generation and the next , and give hope to those who never have it . it be also important to ensure that the right kind of home be build , and that local people can afford to live and work in Cornwall — a reality that have long be impossible because of the vicious cycle of low wage and housing unaffordability . I will work tirelessly to ensure that Cornwall ' s interest be represent and the voice of my constituent be hear at the high level of Government , and I will advocate policy that will bring tangible benefit to our people . I be enter Parliament alongside three other Cornish Labour mps , who reflect a sea change in the political landscape there . with Cornish Labour mps in a Labour Government , I be thrilled to provide the strong voice in Westminster that we have so seldom have . but our political culture remain consistent : in people ' s rightful expectation of our service ; in our egalitarianism ; and in our healthy scepticism towards established politic and the centralisation of power , whether that be in Westminster , in single individual or in out - of - touch bureaucracy that fail to deliver for work people . in that spirit , I pledge to serve with integrity , to listen to all voice within our community and to champion the value that make Cornwall so special , ensure that our future be as bright and prosperous as our history be rich and story . no more shift the deckchair : we be go to get Cornwall building again — to a blueprint build of the voice of those who put I here . I call Angus MacDonald to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . that be a very heartfelt speech from the hon . member for St Austell and Newquay ( Noah Law ) . Cornwall and the highland of Scotland share our westerly reach and celtic background . I be very proud to have be elect to serve the people of the west highland and Inverness in this Parliament . follow the Electoral Commission ' s mistaken decision to cut the number of highland constituency from three to two , I have , to a large extent , replace two former mp in Ian Blackford and Drew Hendry , who represent to the good of their ability Ross , Skye and Lochaber , and Inverness , Nairn , Badenoch and Strathspey respectively . to say that my constituency be geographically challenging would be an understatement . it take four hour to drive from east to west and from north to south . the highland of Scotland be bountiful in their beauty — from the mile of sandy beach in Gairloch and Lochaber , the mountain of Ben Nevis , and the Skye Cuillins and Torridon , to the castle of Urquhart on Loch Ness and Eilean Donan in Wester Ross . our oak and Scots pine tree be bent over as a result of the prevail westerly wind . we have beautiful loch and large , powerful river around every bend in the road . astonish though the beauty be , it be the people of the highland that I — like my amazing predecessor Charles Kennedy — love and be delighted to represent . although the highland be beautiful and the people wonderful , the region struggle financially . the Highland council be burden with debt of £ 1 . 2 billion . inverness ' s population have increase rapidly , but the three - and - a - half hour drive from our highland capital to Scotland ' s capital be not dualle and be not safe . the rural west face severe fuel poverty , long journey for NHS treatment , public service cut , and a lack of essential service , with many young people leave for city . would it not be wonderful if a fairy godmother come along and bestow a wonderful asset on the highland — something that generate serious money for the area over generation , and a long - term provider of great employment ? there be such an asset . the west highland be the wet area in Europe , and the wind be virtually unceasing . we have the most fantastic land to benefit from the move to renewable . that opportunity have not go unnoticed : utility and infrastructure firm from all over the world be queue up to install 200 - metre - high wind turbine on our hill ; our hydro scheme be get upgrade ; and there be £ 5 billion pump storage site at various stage of development in my constituency . major construction project abound across the highland . thousand of worker be bring in and accommodate in temporary modular housing . peak electricity use in Scotland be 3 GW , while our peak production be 10 to 14 GW . Scotland may add as much as another 10 GW of production capacity by 2030 . we will be produce seven time more electricity than we use . like for prospector to a gold rush , the rich opportunity be accompany by challenge . there be two important issue to which we need to pay attention . first , there be a cost to that for the highland : the industrialisation of our countryside . what be a beautiful view of the mountain be now row of 200 - metre - high whirling turbine , and large new pylon march across the country to the city , where the demand be . secondly , what be in it for the local ? the turbine and generator be manufacture overseas , the developer and utility firm be from outwith the UK , and the worker be ship in . last year , our total community benefit from that multibillion - pound industry be an estimate £ 9 . 1 million in the highland , and £ 26 . 4 million across Scotland as a whole . it should be a multiple of those figure . we in the highland pay 50 % more for electricity connection than people in the south of England , yet increasingly , the highland be where that electricity be generate . the Government be release the restriction on onshore wind farm in England , so what be an issue for Scotland now will become an issue for many rural area across Great Britain . what can be do about this ? I propose that 5 % of revenue from all newly consent renewable energy generate both onshore and offshore should be pay to community benefit fund . for onshore project , two third of that should be pay to the affected council ward , with one third pay to a council infrastructure fund ; for offshore project , all of that 5 % of gross revenue should go to council infrastructure fund . exist renewable project over 1 MW should pay 2 % , as per the split already outline . for transmission line and substation , the Irish have an excellent community benefit plan that we can learn from — I would like the energy Minister to listen to this , rather than do his email . the Norwegians handle the revenue from the North sea oil boom well , and their sovereign wealth fund be now value at $ 1 . 7 trillion . Britain save nothing , and we be in real danger of repeat that mistake with the renewable bonanza . I close by say there be considerable disadvantage to the people of rural Britain in take on the downside of host our move from a carbon - base economy to a renewable electric alternative . it be only fair that we make it beneficial to the people affect . it be great that the great british Energy Bill will be far strengthen to include enable community energy — that be really important . finally , Inverness be the centre of onshore and offshore wind , the exist hydropower industry , and massive pump storage project . I be glad that GB Energy be go to be headquarter in Scotland , and I believe inverness would be the right place for it . irrespective of that , one of its first job should be to look at my proposal and to ensure that the benefit of Scotland ' s renewable can be properly share , because this be an opportunity that we can not afford to miss . it be a great pleasure to follow the hon . member for Inverness , Skye and West Ross - shire ( Mr MacDonald ) . I congratulate he on that excellent speech . in particular , when he speak of Charles Kennedy , who be still tremendously miss in this place , he speak of a political giant we all reflect on very fondly . it be also a great pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for St Austell and Newquay ( Noah Law ) , who I also congratulate on an excellent speech . I speak today in support of a Bill that have the potential to be a real game - changer in the fight to decarbonise our energy supply . I applaud my right hon . friend the Secretary of State on his determination in bring this Bill before the House so soon after the general election . it be hugely encouraging that the Government have get straight on with the business of set up GB Energy , follow hot on the heel of the excellent auction that we hear about just this week . GB Energy ' s task — work hand in hand with the private sector to power an ambitious expansion of renewable energy — be a crucial one . the task of decarbonise our energy supply could not be more urgent . scientist have make it clear that the warming of our climate due to carbon emission be have disastrous consequence that be already be feel . we be not head towards a climate emergency : we be already live in one . we should reject the voice that say that China ' s growth mean that anything we do be futile . that be an excuse never to take the step need to decarbonise . of course , there be a role for international negotiation and bring pressure to bear on other nation , but we do that more convincingly when our own house be in order . that be why I be so pleased to support GB Energy . we have also see the danger of be reliant on other nation for our energy security . energy supply chain be increasingly fraught with geopolitical tension and , in the case of Russia ' s senseless invasion of Ukraine , outright conflict . that lay bare just how vulnerable we can be when we can not provide for ourselves . make no mistake , energy security be national security . we should benefit from the great natural rich this country be endow with , yet the last Government ' s inconsistency of approach detract from the investment in renewable energy that we need . from the ban on onshore wind to the downgrading of feed - in tariff and the disastrous , fail contract for difference round 5 auction , the renewable sector have not previously have a consistent partner to maximise the potential for renewable energy . I be fully align with the hon . member ' s priority for national security in energy not to rely on other nation . of course , within the UK , Scotland generate vastly more energy than we can consume . although we be in the same state — in the United Kingdom — Scotland be a different country and a different nation . do he think it be appropriate that Scotland should reap no benefit whatsoever from its energy endowment relative to anywhere else on these island ? I do not recognise the hon . Gentleman ' s description at all . we be part of a United Kingdom , and we all make contribution and we all receive benefit . the people of Scotland be give an option to vote to leave , and they choose not to . I know that be a result he bitterly regret , but that be the choice the people of Scotland make . it be absolutely true that Scotland produce a large amount of renewable energy and of energy more generally , and it also get many other benefit in many other way . that be why I suspect the number of member on the Benches next to he be so much small than it be previously , because people have recognise , overall , the benefit of be part of this great Union . as I say , we should benefit from the great natural rich that his country be endow with , but the previous Government ' s approach withhold those opportunity . what today ' s Bill offer , alongside the astonishingly successful round 6 auction , be a strong signal that the new Government be take the generation of renewable energy far more seriously . it be imperative that the sector know it have a Government who be a reliable partner , without constant knee - jerk change in policy : not a pushover or a Government who give away taxpayer ' money thoughtlessly , but one set out a fair and reliable basis for firm to invest . alongside the imperative to reduce emission and bill , GB Energy can be crucial for our economy . I be pleased that the Government have announce that GB Energy will be headquarter in Scotland . Scotland be proportionately the lead nation in the UK for renewable power . however , I caution the Secretary of State not to ignore the contribution of coalfield community such as those that he and I represent . in north Derbyshire and across the north midland and south Yorkshire coalfield , community that be create to power the nation with coal from the dawn of the industrial revolution should be central to the Government ' s think in this arena . this Government have lay down demand target to double energy generate by onshore wind farm , triple solar power and quadruple offshore wind . those objective be a vital part of decarbonise the grid by 2030 , but we should not be in any doubt about the challenge they represent . there be still many legitimate question about the operation of this new enterprise and where the balance will sit between be a conduit to private investment and be a provider in its own right , but criticism of the Bill from Opposition Members have be wildly overblown . the truth be that this small Bill be introduce the company — it be not the entire energy policy of this Government — and much of the criticism have be fanciful . however , I would be interested to know from my hon . friend the Minister how the new company will work across Government to unlock the planning system while take community along with we . I be extremely pleased to speak in support of this Bill , and I will be vote for it with great enthusiasm . yes , there be lot more work to do , but this Government have make a damn good start . I call Ann davy to make her maiden speech . Diolch yn fawr , Dirprwy Lefarydd — thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) , to hear so many maiden speech here today — especially from our fellow celt in Cornwall and , of course , the hon . member for Clwyd East ( Becky Gittins ) — and to contribute to this important debate . the climate crisis and the need to decarbonise our energy generation be among the most pressing challenge of our time , and how we choose to respond will shape the future of all our community , include those in Carmarthenshire I have the privilege to represent . I be deeply honour to have be elect to represent the newly form constituency of Caerfyrddin , which be create from the previous seat of Carmarthen East and Dinefwr , and of Carmarthen West and South Pembrokeshire . although new in this Parliament , the constituency have historical root , have exist under similar boundary between 1918 and 1997 . I would first like to pay tribute to my immediate predecessor , Jonathan Edwards and Simon Hart . Jonathan serve our community diligently for 14 year , demonstrate the essence of be a constituency MP , which be to work hard , serve all and be root within our community . Simon also serve for 14 year with dedication , and I acknowledge that to the western part of Caerfyrddin . our constituency have a proud history , and it be impossible to speak of it without mention Gwynfor Evans , who win the seat back in 1966 as the first ever Plaid Cymru MP . his victory be a watershed moment for Welsh nationalism , and I be acutely aware that I would not be stand here today without Gwynfor , so his name might make a few appearance in this speech . it be in part thank to he , and those who work alongside he , that Plaid Cymru today represent our high ever proportion of Welsh seat in this esteemed organisation , and we do not take that responsibility lightly . it be also thank to Gwynfor that today we be able to take the oath of allegiance in Welsh , and in Cornish as be mention early , within this establishment . he be the first MP to attempt to do so in 1966 , and be rebuke by the then Speaker . we have , of course , move on since those day . I also want briefly to mention Megan Lloyd George , who be the first female MP for carmarthen — I be the second — between 1957 and 1966 . it be a surreal moment , on the morning that I be sing off from the train station in Caerfyrddin , to find when we land in Paddington that I be on the Megan Lloyd George train . in many respect , Caerfyrddin be a microcosm of Wales . we have the lush green Tywi , Taf and Teifi valley , rich in natural beauty , and to the south and east we have a proud industrial heritage with the coalmine of Cwm Gwendraeth and Dyffryn Aman . those community , like so many across Wales , still bear the scar of that industrial past — poor housing , low - pay work , and poor health outcome be legacy that we must all address . we be all too aware of the effect that that extractive economy have have on Wales . our land produce vast mineral wealth , yet much of the economic benefit be extract for the profit of other , leave our community to bear the human cost . renewable energy now present an historic opportunity for the Welsh economy , similar to the role that coal once play . however , I fear that history have little regard to our community , and be in danger of repeat itself . under this Government ' s Great British Energy Bill , private company will be encourage to build wind farm and develop tidal energy , solar , hydropower and carbon capture project under leasing agreement with the Crown Estate . let we mention the Crown Estate for a moment — a company that hold asset in Wales value at more than £ 853 million in 2023 . despite have power over Welsh natural resource , the Welsh Government have no power over the Crown Estate , so the profit from lease to private company go straight to the UK Treasury , with a cut for the royal family . those power be devolve to our friend in Scotland in 2017 , so why not to Wales ? the large often multinational company that the Government will be encouraging to lead development under GB Energy will mean , yet again , profit flow out of Wales , with little gain for our community . ironically , some of those company be state - own enterprise , but it be citizen of other nation who will benefit , rather than our own . I mention the lush valley that I represent , the Teifi and Tywi . under the current plan of Green GEN Cymru and Bute Energy , a 90 km long , 132 kV dual circuit overhead line be be propose , which have be meet with widespread local resistance . local people be passionately in favour of decarbonisation , but we simply ask that the Welsh Government ' s policy be implement , which be that , " electricity transmission cable should be place underground where possible , not just in designate landscape but where possible . " we know that undergrounding be already commonplace in many european country , particularly use develop cable plough technology . the UK and Welsh Governments should be place great emphasis on developer incorporate such undergrounding into their proposal . landowner across the Tywi and Teifi valley be prepared to allow access to land if an undergrounding commitment be make by Green GEN Cymru . unfortunately , despite many attempt by I and other , the company refuse to make that commitment . it would undoubtedly save developer time and money if they would just fully engage meaningfully with our community . in his maiden speech , Gwynfor Evans describe Carmarthenshire as " a county of very great natural wealth " . — [ Official Report , 26 July 1966 ; Vol . 732 , c . 1499 . ] he say it be home to the only anthracite coalfield in Britain , steelwork and port , and that it have vast agricultural potential , but he add that people " see no evidence of this prosperity . what they see be mine closing , railway closing , steel worker be make redundant " — as we have now — " and a decline in agriculture . " — [ Official Report , 26 July 1966 ; Vol . 732 , c . 1498 . ] it be as true then as it be today . rural depopulation remain an impending crisis in Caerfyrddin . I be bear and raise in Llanarthne . I have move only four mile in my entire life . I farm there . I have a tenant dairy farm unit with my husband Gareth , who be up in the Gallery with my family and friend . I be a mother of three daughter and a mamgu of seven . I know I do not look it — you all should have jump in there . you lose your opportunity , boy . I be all too aware of the shift among many of those in our young generation away from agriculture , with many move to city to work . if we allow global corporation to treat Wales as a playground for their activity , without ensure that local community benefit economically , socially and ecologically , we only exacerbate the depopulation of our countryside . we have already see large international corporation buy up farmland in Carmarthenshire to plant tree to offset their own carbon footprint , but without change any of their commercial practice . that be not the path to a sustainable future for our community , and it be not the path towards food security or the good use of land . we need legislation that ensure that local community derive the great benefit from renewable energy investment . climate action can not succeed while we continue to encourage an extractive economy , and it be our responsibility to develop our rural economy to be locally focused . that create well - pay job for local people and regenerate wealth within our community . as the Member for Caerfyrddin , I want to see a different economic model for Wales that be locally own , where the benefit be retain within our community and where development be drive not solely for profit , but for the wellbeing of our people . we should adopt a distribute , decentralise model of energy generation that spread ownership and benefit broadly across our community . those two aspect — ownership and benefit — must go hand in hand . to return to Gwynfor ' s word from his maiden speech , he say that " the Welsh be begin to take their country as seriously as the English take their country and as seriously as the Danes and Swedes take their country . " — [ Official Report , 26 July 1966 ; Vol . 732 , c . 1498 . ] thank to Gwynfor and the foundation he lay , the people of Wales take their country seriously . we have our own lawmaking Parliament , and our two language — Welsh and English — officially have full equal status in public life . there be much we can still do and much we can learn from other nation . Denmark have root its decarbonisation effort in local ownership , which have accelerate its progress , because it have garner widespread public support . in Denmark , there have be a legal requirement since 2009 for at least 20 % of renewable energy project to be offer to local ownership . the Institute of Welsh Affairs have recently suggest a similar threshold of around 15 % as a minimum for Wales . that be the kind of forward think that we need . during the election campaign , many people keep say to I , " you ' re not a normal politician . " my response be , " why aren ' t I ? I be a mam , a mamgu , a farmer , a business owner — run a child ' s nursery that we start from scratch — a former teacher and a lecturer . and there isn ' t a training module for this job , be there ? it ' s just life experience . " I be determine in this new role to show woman in Carmarthenshire that we all belong in the room where decision be take , absolutely . I carry with I the voice of those who have be overlook for far too long : farmer who toil the land ; family who strive for a well future ; and community who deserve far more than crumb from the table . the path forward must be one where Wales control its own destiny , where the wealth of our natural resource enrich our people and where the decision that shape our future be make not in boardroom far away but by the very people who live and work in our community . that be how we will ensure protection for our environment and our society for the year to come . Diolch yn fawr . I call Elaine Stewart to make her maiden speech . I begin by congratulate the previous speaker , the hon . member for Caerfyrddin ( Ann Davies ) , on make an excellent maiden speech . I also congratulate all new member who have make interesting and inspiring contribution today . I be delighted to be make my maiden speech as part of the debate on the great british Energy Bill . GB Energy will , of course , be headquarter in Scotland . with clean energy infrastructure already in place and the workforce to match , Ayrshire would be an ideal setting . however , regardless of where it be locate , GB Energy will create thousand of job and deliver energy security and low price for consumer throughout the UK . as it be customary , it be right that I pay tribute to my direct predecessor , Allan Dorans , who serve his constituent well through the last five year . politic aside , it be important to acknowledge the hard work and dedication that be ask of we elect member . we carry out our duty and represent all constituent to the good of our ability . in his maiden speech , my predecessor say he hope that voter in Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock would never again elect an MP to go to Westminster . on that point , I be glad to say he be wrong . I also pay tribute to my labour predecessor , Sandra Osborne . Sandra be the first labour and first woman MP for Ayr , from 1997 until 2015 . Sandra be an outstanding MP and be still remember fondly by many throughout the constituency . I also pay tribute to her predecessor as MP for Carrick , Cumnock and Doon Valley , George Foulkes , who now sit in the other place as Lord Foulkes of Cumnock . Madam Deputy Speaker , allow I to say a few word about my constituency of Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock . it run all the way from Pinwherry to my beloved Dalmellington , with many rural and coastal town and village in between . Ayr be the county town of Ayrshire and host vital service such as Ayr university hospital and the University of the West of Scotland campus , as well as a first - class racecourse that host the scottish grand national . the constituency be also famous as the birthplace of Scotland ' s national bard , Robert Burns . Robert Burns be a global icon . his poem and song be renowned across the world . it would be difficult to pin Burns down on his politic , but our share admiration for the red , red rose fill I with quiet confidence . Carrick lie to the south of the constituency . Maybole and the seaside town of Girvan both look out on to the Ailsa Craig — yes , I have an island , too . Ailsa Craig be famous for granite , which be quarried to make curling stone worldwide . there be a joke that scottish woman make champion curler because they be use to sweep around dead weight . Cumnock and Doon Valley consist of former mining area , and Cumnock be a home to Keir Hardie , the founder of the Labour party . when critic take a pop at the Labour party , they say , " Keir Hardie would turn in his grave . " they do not realise that he be , in fact , cremate in Maryhill in Glasgow . a fine marble bust of Keir Hardie sit outside Cumnock town hall . it be a popular spot for a photo for lead Labour figure visit the area . even Michael Portillo feel oblige to have his picture take for his travel documentary . he , too , will be happy that this Government have be so quick to act to improve the great british railway . when hon . member decide to travel to my constituency , they will also find the magnificent Dumfries House in Cumnock . save by an intervention in 2007 from the Prince of Wales , now his Majesty King Charles , the project have develop much - need educational , research and employment opportunity across the area , with great success . there be many gem to be find across the constituency . however , my fond memory be of grow up in a small village call Dalmellington and be bear and raise in Bellsbank , as part of a scheme build to house the miner move into the area . picnic at the spectacular Loch Doon , pit party with all the miner ' wean and play kerby in the street — it be a simple life , but fill with joy . I be the proud daughter of a miner and an NHS worker . give that , I be delighted to stand on a manifesto to end the injustice of the mineworker ' pension scheme , and I be proud to ask about that very issue in my first question to the Government yesterday . as the young of four sibling , time be tough grow up in our house — it be a case of first up , well dress . these humble beginning make my journey to this place even more remarkable . the journey be make easy by my two beautiful child , who have support I all the way . my friend keep I ground every day , and I thank they for that . I have always be keen to push and challenge myself , which be why I decide at the age of 18 to move to New York , where I work as an au pair . if someone have tell my young self where I would be stand today , I simply would not have believe it . the odd be stack against I — back then , the glass ceiling be still very much in place . around that time , I assume a young Kamala Harris feel the same . thankfully , progress have be make . I be thrilled to sit as an MP in this place alongside a record number of woman . I be thrilled to see a Government with a record number of woman in Cabinet . I be thrilled that this Government have appoint the first female Chancellor in history . yes , progress have be make . in November , I be sure that the whole House will welcome the prospect of yet another glass ceiling be smash in the world of politic . I return from the United States to become a youth worker . through my work in the third sector , on project such as the Zone initiative and the Coalfields Regeneration Trust , I have support community to help they flourish . over the year , I have work tirelessly in those community to give child and young people the opportunity to socialise and to champion they . it be about provide vital training and employment opportunity to deprive area . my work in this place and in my constituency will continue in the same vein , as it always have — support community through public service . my direct experience of how local community be suffer be exactly why I be stand here today . the chance to change the life of people , who be often vulnerable and feeling leave behind , be a passion that lie deep in my soul . I will end with this : the day before his tragic , untimely death , the late leader of the Labour party John Smith end his last speech by say : " the opportunity to serve our country — that be all we ask . " I promise to serve my constituency to the good of my ability . I call Anna Sabine to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank the hon . member for Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock ( Elaine Stewart ) for her speech , particularly what she say about woman in politic and smash the glass ceiling . all the maiden speech today have be fantastic , but in particular I mention that of the hon . member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) , because he talk about develop vaccine for cancer . that be rather poignant for I , because while I have be in the Chamber I have learn that a good friend of mine have die of bowel cancer , which she have have for many year . I pay tribute to she and her young family . the great british Energy Bill be particularly important to the resident of Frome and East Somerset , many of whom , especially in more rural area , live in fuel poverty . Frome and East Somerset be a wholly new constituency create by the recent boundary review , which mean I have the very great privilege of be its first ever MP . Frome have a reputation as a cultural and art hub for the south - west , home to the Cheese & Grain , the Mark Bruce Dance Company and the renowned Frome Independent market . it also have the dubious honour , I be tell , of be the most mispronounced town in the UK . give the number of mispronunciation of my own surname , Sabine , clearly my constituent be look for someone who sympathise with their linguistic challenge . for the House ' s information , it be definitely " Froom " not " Froam " . I do not think my constituent would mind my describe Frome as feisty . the town be free spirited and forward thinking , often pioneer new way of do thing , whether have a proudly independent town council , start the UK ' s first community fridge or share good practice on social prescribing in GP surgery . Frome be awash with local group do incredible work for the environment , such as friend of the River Frome and Frome Families for the Future , with which I have already have the pleasure of working . I look forward to champion their cause throughout my time in this place . until July , Frome be represent by my hon . friend the Member for Glastonbury and Somerton ( Sarah Dyke ) , and I hope to be able to emulate her energy and enthusiasm in serve this very special place . the East Somerset half of my constituency comprise the settlement of Midsomer Norton , Radstock and Peasedown St John . these area have a proud coalmining history date back to the 1700 . they also share a fantastic sense of community , some wonderful local school , and plenty of walk and open countryside to enjoy . Midsomer Norton be also home to a section of the Somerset and Dorset railway , with one mile of track run from Midsomer to Chilcompton . my late father be both an ardent Lib Dem and a massive steam train enthusiast , so I think he would have be delighted to see his new MP daughter be give a tour of the railway by the trust ' s wonderful volunteer during its 150th birthday celebration this summer . until July , East Somerset be represent by Sir Jacob Rees - Mogg . I know from my time in the constituency the high regard in which he and his team be hold by local people , particularly when it come to respond to and resolve casework . that commitment to support local resident , show by both Sir Jacob and my hon . friend the Member for Glastonbury and Somerton , be one I aim to emulate . dot throughout the constituency be a whole host of other village , hamlet and community , many with farming and rural tradition at their heart and with a real sense of community spirit . if I have make it sound like my constituency comprise three distinct part , then hon . member should know that they be link by many factor , such as a proud industrial heritage , a sense of community spirit and , of course , a love of Somerset cider . however , there be constituency - wide issue , which I will work hard to resolve , such as a lack of access to dentist , serious challenge around safety on our a road , and a need for well bus service to help link up all the different settlement . I move to Somerset over 20 year ago and intend to spend my time in this place work hard on the issue I know matter to the people in Frome and East Somerset . finally , let I say a word on my journey to Parliament . I be technically not the first member of my family to be find on the parliamentary estate . my great , great aunt , Helen Fraser , be a scottish suffragist and her picture be part of the display on the wall in the admission office . in 1922 , she be the first woman to stand for Parliament in Scotland — of course she stand for the Liberal party — but sadly she do not make it to the Chamber herself . I attend a state comprehensive school in Hampshire , where I grow up with my mum and brother . I win a county music scholarship that enable I to join my amazing local youth orchestra and have a whole range of experience I would not otherwise have be able to take part in . I manage to secure a place at Oxford University and I can well remember feel like a fish out of water when I arrive there , absolutely bemused by its architecture and tradition , and often wonder if Oxford be really a place for someone like I . fast forward 26 year and many of those emotion well up again as I wander around the parliamentary estate and grapple with the intricacy of its system and procedure . as a single mum now myself , I be acutely aware that many of the way in which this place work be not design with parenting in mind , and they do not always feel accessible to many of we — although I should mention that I be grateful for all the support , as I be sure all new member be , from the extraordinarily kind and helpful House staff . part of the reason I stand for Parliament be to give my wonderful child some faith in our political system and to show they that anyone can be an MP . I be absolutely determined that in my time here I will always have one eye on ensure that the young people of Frome and East Somerset be not make to feel that anywhere be out of their reach . I want young people from all background in my constituency to know that the great institution of this country , be they our university , our scientific body , our civil service , our orchestra or indeed this place , be institution where they be not only able to participate , but be actively welcome . I call Julie Minns to make her maiden speech . thank you for call I , Madam Deputy Speaker . I also thank the hon . member for Frome and East Somerset ( Anna Sabine ) for her maiden speech , make on what I understand be a very difficult afternoon for she . I be sure that everyone in the House would join I in send condolence to she and to the family of her friend . this have be a most entertaining and enjoyable debate . any debate that marry ABBA , Stan Laurel and Shane Warne be one that I want very much to be part of , so I be delighted to have the opportunity to make my maiden speech in this context . it be also apt that I make it during a debate on great British Energy . it be apt not just because the transition to clean energy and tackle climate change be critical to Carlisle — flooding have already decimate our city twice during this century , and local village be too often cut off by localise flooding — and not just because we need to remove the obstacle that prevent Cumbria ' s farmer from connect their solar and wind farm , but because people right across Carlisle and north Cumbria tell I that they be desperate to see that cut in their energy bill . it be also personally apt that I speak on this topic . my great - grandfather , a Conservative alderman and councillor for Carlisle , be a man of unusually progressive thinking . in 1909 , he urge our city ' s industry to set aside coal and instead harness the hydroelectric power of the three river on which our great border city stand . I like to think that , whatever our political difference , my great - grandfather and I would have agree that great British Energy be not just right , but essential for Carlisle , for Cumbria , and for our country . I be the first Carlisle - bear Member of Parliament since 1918 , and the very first woman to represent England ' s most northerly city . it be a city of many little - know fact . for example , in the 1830 it be home to Britain ' s first black police officer . in 1916 , David Lloyd George nationalise all our city ' s pub and brewery , declare that their intoxicate effect on munition worker be do more damage to the british war effort than the entirety of the german submarine fleet . in 1963 , the Beatles be throw out of Carlisle ' s Crown & Mitre Hotel after a complaint from the local golf club that the young Liverpudlians be too casually dressed . my predecessor , John Stevenson , be himself a keen golfer , and I like to think that while he might be a stickler for the rule , he would have recognise the fledgling talent of the Fab Four , and would not have be so hasty in demand their removal . I say this because John be a strong advocate for the potential of our young people , and play an important role in secure the new Pears medical school at the University of Cumbria , which will open its door next year . in over 2 , 000 year of city history , the University of Cumbria be a relative newcomer , and its creation be testimony to the work of the last Labour MP for Carlisle , Eric Martlew , who do so much to secure a university for our city . I look forward very much to the opening of the new medical school , and the contribution that it will make to our Government ' s mission to rebuild our NHS and train the next generation — like my own daughter — of home - grow doctor , nurse and paramedic . my constituency lie between the Lake district and Hadrian ' s wall . it be plentiful in sheep and cattle , and be populate by folk know for good craic and a love of XL crisp . for the uninitiated , let I explain that the XL crisp be a savoury , cheesy — no onion — delight , whose availability in the catering outlet of this House I shall passionately campaign for . I shall also campaign for more critical matter , such as the completion of our flood defence — defence that be promise but not deliver by the last government — the rebuilding of NHS dentistry across north Cumbria , and the growth of Carlisle ' s night - time and visitor economy . Carlisle and north Cumbria already have much to offer visitor . I challenge member to name another UK city than can boast not only citadel , city wall and a Norman castle , but a victorian railway station , a cathedral , and original Turkish Baths . at this point I must declare an interest , as chair of the charity work towards the refurbishment and reopening of Carlisle ' s historic turkish bath . it be one of only 12 original bath still in work order in the UK , the only one leave in the north - west of England and the only one with a tile interior make by the company responsible for the exquisite tile here at the Palace of Westminster . we be also bless with a rich industrial heritage . over the year , Carlisle have be a hub of food manufacturing , with the sweet manufacturer Teasdale , famous for its liquorice Nipits ; Cavaghan & Gray , which produce not just any ready meal , but M & S ready meal ; and Carr ' s biscuit , home of the Table Water and employer of generation of cracker packer . I could not be prouder to represent the city where I be bear and raise . I owe a debt to Robert Ferguson school and Trinity school for help a working - class child from Denton Holme to become the first in her family to go to university . without university , I would not have become involve in politic and would not have have the privilege of campaign for John Smith , a great parliamentarian , to become leader of our party . nor would I have realise the ambition of my distant cousin Ernest Lowthian , who be labour ' s first parliamentary candidate for Carlisle back in 1918 . in conclusion , I return to my great - grandfather . at the opening of one of the bridge that cross the river whose energy he seek to harness , he say : " our job as servant of our great border city be to leave it a little well than we find it . " that , Madam Deputy Speaker , be the task that I have set myself . rise — order . to allow time for one more maiden speech , the next speaker have agree to speak for two minute . thank you so much , Llinos Medi . I congratulate the hon . member for Carlisle ( Ms Minns ) on her maiden speech . I thank she for share her passion and for her mention of the delicatessen in her area after a long afternoon . Ynys M ô n be know as the energy island because of its rich natural energy potential , its powerful , predictable tide and the proud history of nuclear production on the island . the Wylfa site have be a political game for over a decade . back in 2019 we be so close to the finish line , but the site lack political support from the Government at the time . the community have witness the false dawn of Wylfa Newydd , and there be uncertainty regard site under this Labour Government . the Government ' s fact sheet for the Bill say that Great British Energy ' s function will include " explore how great British Energy and great British Nuclear will work together " . the people of Ynys M ô n do not want more consideration ; they want clear commitment and timeline . I urge the Government to give Ynys M ô n a straight answer about the future of the Wylfa site , and a clear timeline . I be pleased that the HydroWing tidal project win 10 MW in the late contract - for - difference auction . this technology will produce energy for the community - own Morlais project off the coast of Holyhead . however , Wales receive only 1 . 63 % of the total auction allocation and no contract be award to Welsh float offshore wind project . we be promise that a Labour Government in Westminster and a Labour Government in Wales would benefit Wales . this be yet to be see . a commitment for GBE to massively expand local and community ownership energy alongside devolution of the Crown Estate would ensure that ownership and profit from energy project be in the hand of the people of Wales and could help low bill . I urge this government to make sure that those decision be put in local hand , but not to rush the decision on large solar panel , because food security be paramount and lose valuable agricultural land could mean a decline in the economy of Ynys M ô n . ultimately , the immense natural energy potential of Ynys M ô n and the rest of Wales can be truly realise only if control of Welsh natural resource be hold by Welsh community , back with sufficient public investment to meet our climate and economic goal . I hope I be within the time limit , Madam Deputy Speaker . that be magnificent . to make his maiden speech , I call Mark Sewards , who have five minute . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . in the interest of save time , I be sure you will grant I permission to skip to the part of my speech where I celebrate my great constituency of Leeds South West and Morley . it be the great responsibility and honour of my life to stand before you as the Labour MP for Leeds South West and Morley . alongside be a husband and a dad , this be the most important job I will ever do , and I give sincere thank to my constituent and neighbour for send I to this place . it have be nine year since Morley and Outwood , the old constituency , send Dame Andrea Jenkyns to represent we , and I would like to give sincere thank to my predecessor . Dame Andrea be a ferocious campaigner for the issue she passionately believe in . during her time as our MP , she be a strong advocate for animal welfare and always stand up for the people of Ukraine . she will always speak her mind and her truth to power , as member of this House will be able to confirm . while the list of thing that we agree on be reasonably short , we be in broad agreement , prior to the general election , that there need to be change in Prime Minister . I sincerely thank Dame Andrea Jenkyns for her service to her constituent and this House . leed South West and Morley be steep in history and tradition , and it be make up of some of the good and proud community in the country . the town of Morley be in the centre , and I be proud to say that I be raise there . however , some of my constituent will hear I say that and take issue , because I be in fact raise in Churwell , a village that be geographically attach to the town of Morley . while I will always call myself a proud Morleian , the truth be that there be distinct difference in each part of my constituency . each one have its own proud history and its own story to tell . part of Morley ' s history be that it be once home to the penultimate Liberal Prime Minister , Herbert Asquith . you can find his name on building and in street , include , I be sorry to say , the infamous Asquith Avenue , which be in desperate need of resurfacing . I know that some of the historian among we will never forgive Herbert Asquith — not for the quality of the road in his name , but for the shell crisis of 1915 , which see the british Army leave without the munition it need during world war one . this ultimately bring down his premiership , but give that the crisis be abate when the state step in to provide a solution , it stand as a reminder that , as powerful as the free market can be , at time there be problem and crisis that require the power of the state to solve . while I be share a snippet of the history of my constituency , it would be remiss of I not to talk about the place of the mill and the mine in the history of Leeds South West and Morley . whether it be the role of Morley , Tingley , Gildersome or East Ardsley in the heavy woollen trade , or the mine in the village of Lofthouse and Robin Hood , these industry have shape our constituency and the home that we know and love today . but it be not just the history of my constituency that make it great ; it be the people . it be the people at Drighlington village ' s Coffee Pot Memory Caf é , who do outstanding work for people with dementia . for their effort , they be recently award the King ' s award for voluntary service — one of the high honour that such an organisation can receive . I commend they for their work . while I be talk about Drighlington , I must also pay tribute to not one but two olympic medallist who live in the village : Jack Laughter and Lois Toulson , who both win bronze in the 3 - metre and 10 - metre synchronise diving event in Paris . I congratulate they on their incredible success . it be Lois ' s first medal and Jack ' s fourth — he now have one of every colour . in Churwell village , we be bless with the environmental action volunteer , who keep the community look outstanding . in Farnley , we have the 8th South West Leeds scout group , who work in conjunction with our litter picker to keep our community look outstanding . in Wortley , resident have go to great length to protect and restore the tv Harrison football field . Leeds United legend have train there , include Paul Reaney and David Batty , and I look forward to work with resident and the Leeds Schools Sports Association , which have responsibility for the site , to restore it to its former glory . although Farnley and Wortley be new addition to the constituency , it be a place that do not have its own community hub or library . but what it do have be some outstanding sport team that make up the community hub for our community in Farnley and Wortley . these be Wortley FC , the Farnley Falcons , West Leeds RUFC and , of course , New Farnley Cricket Club . Wortley be the place where I be raise my own child , Oscar and Arthur , who will never be able to call themselves Morleians , I be sorry to say . finally , Madam Deputy Speaker — I know that my remain time be very short — I want to reference the work of WF3 Kindness , which work across Tingley , Ardsley , Thorpe , Lofthouse and Robin Hood . its sole aim be to help people in those community to live strong and well life , and I look forward to support the charity in that work . these organisation and constituent have send I here to return politic to public service once again . they have send I here to restore stability to our country and our economy . they have send I here to plug the gap that they have often have to fill themselves . my constituent have step up for their community time and again , and it be my turn to do the same for they . I call the shadow Minister . it have be a great privilege to listen to so many maiden speech this afternoon , with so many member of Parliament , pretender to the throne , represent what they claim to be the most beautiful constituency in the country . everybody , of course , know that be West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine , but listen to everybody be a great reminder of the fact that there be so much more that unite we than divide we . we be all privileged to serve in this place , and we be all privileged to serve the constituent who send we here for however long or short . however , read through the list of the 18 constituency whose Member give their maiden speech today feel like read the list of all the part of the country where I either speak or campaign over the last year . the fact they be now all represent by party not my own perhaps say something about my campaigning ability : Clwyd East ; Northampton South ; North East Hertfordshire ; Eastleigh ; Stratford and Bow ; Cheadle ; Truro and Falmouth ; Camborne and Redruth ; Stroud ; Barrow and Furness ; St Austell and Newquay ; Inverness , Skye and West Ross - shire ; Caerfyrddin ; Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock ; Frome and East Somerset ; Carlisle ; Ynys M ô n ; and Leeds South West and Morley — all fantastic maiden speech . welcome to the House of Commons . it be just unfortunate that , on such an auspicious and a proud day for those member , we have to spend our time talk about an unnecessary and costly gimmick that will not improve our energy security and will do nothing to reduce consumer ’ bill or our carbon emission . we hear the liberal Democrats claim that we leave a mess for the Government to clean up when it come to energy . well , if have the first to fifth large offshore wind farm in the world , the fast reduction of carbon emission in the G7 , an end to coal - fire power production and net zero in law be a mess , I would like to see a good job well do . we hear great claim from the Secretary of State that GB Energy will incentivise investment and speed up the deployment of new technology while scale up more mature one , all of which be debatable to say the least . as the public out there watch their bill go up again , the Labour party claim through the election that create this company will automatically lead to low bill . we hear again and again that bill will be £ 300 low . funny that we do not hear that figure bandy around as frequently today . that be the most questionable claim . if not £ 300 , as the Secretary of State use to claim , by how much will bill fall as a result of establish this company , and by when ? how will this company speed up deployment ? what will it do differently , give that we already have the first to fifth large offshore wind farm generate power here right now without this costly gimmick ? although I respect the ambition and agree that we need to see more job for british worker and the establishment of a UK - base supply chain , which be why we create the sustainable industry reward that will come in at allocation round 7 , do the Minister acknowledge that this will take time and that we be hundred of thousand of worker short of the plan that we have to build right now , and that this will make no difference to the Government ' s 2030 plan ? the Secretary of State ' s claim not to be neutral about where thing be make ring hollow to the supply chain in and around Aberdeen , which be worried about the future of North sea oil and gas because of his Government ' s decision . the announcement , with much fanfare , that GB Energy will establish an unprecedented partnership with the Crown Estate be fantastic , but what do that mean for Scotland , where the Crown Estate be devolve ? the private sector project be , in the Secretary of State ' s word , guarantee to return a profit , so why do they need to be de - risk by the taxpayer ? what will be the cost to the taxpayer when , inevitably , some of these new technology fail ? what will be the company ' s final bill for taxpayer ? although £ 8 billion be a large amount of money — just think how many pensioner could heat their home for that amount , for example — the TUC , no less , conduct an analysis last year that find that GB Energy will need around £ 61 billion to £ 82 billion of investment between 2025 and 2035 to scale it up to the level need to do all the miraculous thing that the Government claim . this initial £ 8 . 3 billion capitalisation , large when we have such pressure on public finance , seem a little on the low side if the Government really want to create a British Ø rste or EDF , bail out annually by the taxpayer , especially give that £ 3 . 3 billion be plan to fund local authority and provide low - cost loan to community , leave £ 5 billion to do everything else . when do the Minister expect his boss , the Secretary of State , who have return to the Chamber , to go cap in hand to the Treasury ask for more money ? what exactly do he think the Chancellor ' s response will be ? how will the establishment of GB Energy impact the independence of GB Nuclear ? will GB Energy now have the final say over the small modular reactor drawdown process ? how be that process progress anyway ? do we have a timeline for a final decision on that or on a third gigawatt - scale reactor at Wylfa ? I thank the hon . gentleman — apology , the right hon . gentleman — for give way . some 18 year ago , a young Member for Doncaster North approve land at Moorside , next to Sellafield , for new nuclear use , but 18 year on we be now at the eleventh hour , thank to the indecision , chaos and confusion of the last Government , who be unable to make long - term decision about the nuclear future of our country but be now lecture this government . why be the shadow Minister defend the last Government ' s approach when it be so apparent that a new approach be need ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . he be right the first time — hon . Gentleman , not right hon . Gentleman . I be very pleased to visit Sellafield and Moorside in his constituency , and I be proud to be the first Minister for nuclear in the history of this country . I be proud to launch great british Nuclear , and to announce the small modular reactor drawdown scheme , our route to market for alternative energy , that we would build a third gigawatt - scale reactor at Wylfa and that we would carry on with thing at Sizewell . now it be in the hand of the hon . Gentleman ' s party to take the decision necessary to move the nuclear industry to the next level , move forward on our proud , world - lead agenda for reinvestment and our revolutionising of this country ' s nuclear industry , of which he be rightly proud . on that point , will the shadow Minister give way ? I will not , because that will eat into his own Minister ' s time to respond . oh , maybe I will as it be the hon . Gentleman who be ask . the shadow Minister be such a generous man . he be list all the commitment he make , but we all know that his Government make £ 22 billion - worth of commitment that they have no idea how they would pay for . why do he not tell the truth ? " truth " be quite an interesting word come from the party that have decide to prioritise train driver over pensioner and that , on the very day it announce a 22 % increase in junior doctor ' pay , tell the pensioner of this country they would be go cold this winter . to go back to the matter at hand , what will be the relationship between GB Energy and UK Industrial Fusion Solutions or the International Atomic Energy Agency ? how will that affect the plan for step — the spherical tokamak for energy production — at West Burton ? the Secretary of State want the UK to export more energy , but have he do an analysis of the impact on bill payer of build the require infrastructure and interconnector ? will GB Energy and not Ofgem now be the final decision maker when it come to the approval of new international interconnector to the continent ? if so , how will it be hold responsible for those decision by the Department and by Parliament ? I know the Minister be a respectful person , so I ask he sincerely to please end the disrespect be show to the people of Aberdeen , with the " will they , win ' t they " game be play around the location of GB Energy ' s headquarters . politic aside , that area of the country be already worried about its economic future . my plea to he , as my hon . friend the Member for Gordon and Buchan ( Harriet Cross ) ask early , be to end that situation and make an announcement as soon as possible . ultimately , the simple question the Minister will have to answer , after have consider all the point make by hon . member this afternoon , be why ? why be the Government do this ? Britain be already a world leader in clean energy production . we be already lead the world in cut our carbon emission . we already export energy . we be build new technology at unprecedented rate . we have halve our emission and do so while grow the economy . the Secretary of State regularly , and rightly , claim that it be Britain ' s over - reliance on gas that have lead to bill payer here pay high bill than in other country . as I say , he be not wrong . it be acknowledge by the Climate Change Committee that we will be reliant on gas for a significant proportion of our energy supply for many year to come , so his decision for the North sea will leave we , in the short term , even more reliant on foreign import and on the country and regime he claim he want to free we from , and there will be a low tax return for the Treasury from a small sector . job , capability and skill will be lose overseas , and bill will not fall , certainly not by the £ 300 he claim during the election . so if there be nothing in GB Energy for bill payer , it do not have the capital to enable it to be an Ø rste or an EDF , we be already a world leader , it will open the taxpayer up to huge risk , invest in emerge technology might fail and it will not increase our energy security , the question be why do it ? what be the point in GB Energy ? surely the Secretary of State be not that desperate to have something to put on his " Ed stone " or to have a new plaque to unveil . it may well be about the " Ed stone " , but the Secretary of State should be aware that this Bill could be the Government ' s tombstone . we have see how these project end up : Robin Hood Energy collapse , leave Nottingham City council with a bill of £ 38 million ; and the same with Bristol Energy . what will the bill for the country be if GB Energy follow the same path ? great British Energy will not produce any energy , it will not cut household energy bill by £ 300 as the Prime Minister , the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero have all state , and it will not compensate for the amount of investment in energy project that will be deter by the Government ' s plan to prematurely shut down the UK ' s oil and gas sector . it be an unjustified use of taxpayer ' money at a time when the Government be withdraw the winter fuel payment for 10 million pensioner as energy bill rise . I echo the word of the Secretary of State and urge member on the Government Benches to ignore their whip and vote for our amendment this evening . may I begin by thank right hon . and hon . member who have participate in this extremely wide - range debate this afternoon ? I particularly pay tribute to all member across the House who make their maiden speech in this debate . thankfully , the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) have already run through all the constituency name , so I do not need to do that again . however , I do want to highlight specifically some of the really emotional contribution that we hear from hon . member , particularly my hon . friend the Members for North East Hertfordshire ( Chris Hinchliff ) and for Stratford and Bow ( Uma Kumaran ) and the hon . member for Eastleigh ( Liz Jarvis ) , who speak so passionately , as many do , about their pride in their community and the importance of this moment and this decisive decade in tackle irreversible climate change . there will come a point in this Parliament when we will not have debate that be dominate by maiden speech , and I will really regret that , because every time I sit here I learn a lot more about the country in which we live . I thank all those member for share their community with we this afternoon . this have be a thorough and interesting discussion about the principle behind this Bill and the establishment of great British Energy . the UK face immense challenge , from energy insecurity and our over - reliance on volatile fossil fuel market to the cost of live crisis and climate crisis . this Government be determined to address those challenge with clean energy be a key part of the solution . other country have already seize the opportunity of publicly own energy generation company , which have leave Britain behind . unlike previous government , this Government be commit to the benefit of public ownership in the UK , and we want UK citizen and taxpayer to own part of our infrastructure , too . great British Energy will drive clean energy deployment , boost energy independence and generate benefit for all part of the United Kingdom . it will deliver for the british people , create good job , deliver profit and demonstrate international leadership . will the Minister give way ? I will carry on just now , because we have a very short time before we finish . I wish to address the reason amendment table in the name of the right hon . member for East Surrey ( Claire Coutinho ) . I shall address many of these point in more detail , but , in short , great British Energy will produce clean energy , protect bill payer in the long term , and invest in project that expect a return on investment , generate revenue and deliver for the people of this country in the process . we will manage the transition in the North sea in a way that be prosperous and just and enable our offshore worker to retrain into the industry of the future in a long - term sustainable way . I urge the House to vote against this so - call reason amendment tonight . I turn to some of the specific point that have be raise . I be sorry that I will not be able to get to all of they , because I have very little time . we have already announce a substantial amount of detail on GB Energy beyond this Bill , include publish its found statement , announce the first major partnership with the Crown Estate , confirm that it will be headquarter in Scotland , and appoint J ü rgen Maier as the start - up chair . this Bill be the next stage of great British Energy ' s journey , give it the statutory footing that be need to deliver on our ambition . it be draft to help establish great British Energy and set out the necessary legal framework . GB Energy will be an operationally independent company , just as great British Nuclear and the UK Infrastructure Bank be . it will be accountable to Parliament , not run by Ministers as some member have claim today . it will be oversee by an experienced board , benefit from industry - lead expertise and experience right across its remit , bring the most skilled and experienced individual to the heart of the decision that it will make . GB Energy will not be a trading fund , as suggest by the hon . member for Angus and Perthshire Glens ( Dave Doogan ) . instead , as I have already say , it will be an operationally independent energy company that own , manage and operate clean energy project . I suppose the confusion arise from the fact that the SNP ' s commitment to set up a publicly own energy company have not come to anything at all . I think it have be seven year since it be announce . only this week , the Scottish Government draw down even more money from the ScotWind inheritance to plug the gap in their day - to - day spending . will the Minister give way ? we have hear from the hon . Gentleman already . there be multiple question in this debate about how great British Energy will lower bill and when taxpayer will see a difference . that feature in the reason amendment table by the Opposition . conservative Members want to raise the issue of bill as if they have be nowhere for the past 14 year . their record be why people up and down this country be pay more in their bill , and the people will not forget it . will the Minister give way ? I will not give way ; I be very short on time . in an unstable world , the only way to guarantee our energy security and protect bill payer from future energy shock be to speed up our transition away from fossil fuel and towards home - grow clean energy . we have be clear that we can not flick a switch and fix 14 year of dither and delay overnight , but we have set about start to do so , and we will continue . throughout support the transition , great British Energy will save family money by ensure that electricity bill be no long expose to those kind of price shock — [ interruption . ] if conservative member want to put a number on this , let we just ask they to go back to their constituency and ask their constituent how much more they be pay in their bill thank to 14 year of conservative government . on the question of job , a number of hon . member rightly raise the importance of invest in our supply chain and in the skill of the future . great British Energy will create thousand of good job and build supply chain in every corner of the UK through the project that it support , as well as at its future head office in Scotland . its investment will support company across the energy industry , provide opportunity for high - quality , well - pay work rebuild the UK ' s industrial heartland . several Members raise the question of community energy , which be at the heart of the Bill . local power generation be an essential part of the energy mix , ensure that energy project deliver not just a community benefit but the social outcome that local community need . many member mention that . on that point , will the Minister give way ? I have say that I do not have time . the hon . Gentleman give a speech in which he raise a number of point , and I be happy to come back to he at another time . community energy also reduce pressure on the transmission grid and the need for expensive investment , so community ownership will be critical . great British Energy will deliver a step change in investment in local and community energy project , put local authority and community at the heart of the energy transition . finally , I will address a few point on devolution , which be raise by the hon . member for Angus and Perthshire Glens , the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) and my hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth ( Perran Moon ) . great British Energy be intend to support all part of the United Kingdom , and will help to ensure that every part of this country have a role to play in deliver our energy independence . since we come into government , we have be engage regularly with the devolved government , on this Bill and a range of other issue , to reset the relationship with they . I hope that soon the devolve government will indicate their support for the Bill by pass motion of legislative consent . one of the Government ' s five drive mission be to make Britain a clean energy superpower , and at the heart of that mission be Great British Energy . this be a bold idea , overwhelmingly back by the british people — not only by people who vote Labour , but by people who vote SNP , people who vote conservative and even people who vote Reform . surprisingly , there be people who vote for those party . this be an idea that have the public ' s support . it will speed up the delivery of the clean energy that we need . it will deliver the next generation of good job , with strong trade union , help to re - industrialise all part of our nation . it will protect family finance . it will learn the lesson of the past and allow the british people to reap the reward of this transition . I urge the House to support the Bill and bring a fully operational Great British Energy one step close to reality . I commend the Bill to the House . question put , that the amendment be make . the House proceed to a Division . will the Serjeant at arm investigate the delay in the No Lobby ? Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Burghart James Cartlidge James Cleverly Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Peter Fortune Ashley Fox George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Mark Pritchard Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Paul Holmes Luke Evans Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray James Naish Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Michael Shanks Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna Turley Gen Kitchen the House have divide : Ayes 94 , Noes 348 . question accordingly negative . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 62 ( 2 ) ) , that the Bill be now read a second time . Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Maria Eagle Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray James Naish Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Michael Shanks Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gen Kitchen Vicky Foxcroft Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Burghart James Cartlidge James Cleverly Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Mark Pritchard Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Paul Holmes Luke Evans the House divide : Ayes 348 , Noes 95 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read a second time . great British Energy Bill ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the great british Energy Bill : Committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Public Bill Committee ( 2 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on Tuesday 15 October 2024 . ( 3 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . consideration and Third Reading ( 4 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which those proceeding be commence . ( 5 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding on consideration and Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Samantha Dixon . ) question agree to . great British Energy Bill ( Money ) king ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the great british Energy Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of any expenditure incur under or by virtue of the Act by the Secretary of State . — ( Samantha Dixon . ) question agree to . Rail and Road Connectivity : Northern Lincolnshire Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Vicky Foxcroft . ) I be delighted to welcome the Minister to her place , and I be pleased to be able to raise these important issue on behalf of my constituent in Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes and also the wide region . the Minister will be aware that road and rail connectivity to Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes have be a long - stand issue , which many before we have try and fail to resolve , but I be hopeful that we will be able to move thing on substantially for the great wellbeing and economic benefit of northern Lincolnshire and the Humber generally . the Minister know that despite be out on the coast , northern Lincolnshire play a critical part in the nation ' s energy and fuel generation , be the country ' s centre of offshore wind operational management and repair . we produce omega - 3 rich food for the country ' s dinner plate and eco - fibre for our clothe . we host the world ' s large port by tonnage . we be the hub for new vehicle distribution around the UK . we be the star coastal beachy getaway — someone in the Chamber may want to challenge I on that at some point — for hundred of thousand of visitor each year , deliver excellent hospitality . we deliver national training in offshore wind and high - skill engineering . as a thriving and proud footballe town , we draw crowd weekly from all over the country , keen to support their team down at Blundell Park . my point , in highlight all these activity , be to demonstrate the economic importance of the Humber , and the south bank in particular , not only to those local who benefit from the work and the product , but to the whole country . we know that be easily able to access place be key to secure additional inward investment , grow economic prosperity for and on behalf of the people who live there . it dispel some of the sense of be separate or isolate from the rest of the country . currently , despite the fact that we have a busy dual carriageway link we to the central spine of the country ; regular - ish direct rail service across to Liverpool in 3 hour 26 minute via Doncaster , Sheffield and Manchester and to Leicester in 2 hour 36 minute via Lincoln and Nottingham — the Minister will be pleased to know that — and a brilliant little airport in Kirmington that have flight direct to Schiphol and Aberdeen , we be still consider hard to access . add in some roadwork or rail replacement service , and somewhere with well , fast transport link tip the balance and end up get the investment . the current situation for an away fan drive to support their team at Blundell Park — let we say Bradford ; there be a recent match that we be triumphant in — down the a180 on to Cleethorpe Road and then Grimsby Road be an inexplicably loud , judder journey along a 50 - year - old concrete road . the urban myth of the road be that an american firm be contract to lay experimental surfacing and roll it the wrong way , so the friction be high and more pronounced as the car drive the opposite way to how they do in the States , so it generate much more noise . but , whatever the history , the fact of the matter be that , today , despite some patchy resurfacing in short stretch , the noise for driver be so loud that speak at a normal volume to a passenger sit right next to they be impossible and hear travel alert on the radio be also impossible . I be convinced that it must be damaging to the hearing of people who regularly drive on that road for work , education or leisure purpose . as for the train , I absolutely defy anybody who say they have not experience a delay at Doncaster . usually they come later on , in the evening . for more regular traveller , perhaps that result in just a roll of the eye and settle down in the waiting room for an hour or more to wait for the next connection , or , as the hon . member for Brigg and Immingham ( Martin Vickers ) will know , head outside to join a lengthy queue and eventually clamber into a share taxi with other feed up and rather confused passenger . for those who do not use the train often , the lack of information , the lack of update and the paucity of any assistance with luggage or perhaps mobility struggle really put they off use the railway , especially when they pay a premium for the privilege . with most international business traveller fly into London airport , the route between Grimsby and Cleethorpes and London be an absolutely essential one . one of our refinery be own by the Americans , the fabric company Lenzing be austrian , Ø rste be Danish , RWE be german , Knauf be also german , and Sofina be canadian . company from all over the world be base themselves in Grimsby , Cleethorpes and the surround northern Lincolnshire area . bring senior executive to our richly experienced and active corner of the country be essential , but it be really embarrassing to send they on delayed train or a two - coach , 50 - year - old chugger with no modern amenity on it . the hon . Member be make an extraordinarily powerful and important point . Lincolnshire have a huge footprint from the north , which she represent , to the south — I would suggest that it be not a corner but a massive footprint . the Government want to create growth and to build 1 . 5 million new home over this Parliament . the key to that be infrastructure , because if we do not have a good road network to enable people to get across Lincolnshire and if they can not get to new home , the house builder will not build they . in my constituency , we have be talk about a bypass in Boston for about 20 year — so long that no one can remember . I therefore support she and say to the Minister that actually the whole of Lincolnshire — north and south — need extra investment in road and rail infrastructure to secure the growth that the Government be rightly so keen to ensure for the nation . I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . he make an important point . we can not grow one area of — I will not say " corner " again — our patch , our kingdom of Lincolnshire without grow the other . the ability to travel across the county be incredibly important . I support the subject of the hon . Lady ' s debate . she mention the United Kingdom ; it be important that we look at the connectivity of the entire United Kingdom . in the constituency that I represent , there have already be an all - Ireland rail review , in which both the Northern Ireland Executive and the Irish Government have look at the opportunity of improve rail link . one of those link be from Antrim town through to Lisburn , and connect Belfast international airport via rail . the hon . Lady be worried about the state of her rail link to the airport in her constituency ; I have Belfast international airport in mine , and no rail link . could the Government work with the Northern Ireland Executive on the all - Ireland rail review to look at how that could progress ? I admire the hon . Gentleman ' s ability to get South Antrim into a debate about northern Lincolnshire , and I support his opportunity to do that . it be totally unsuitable to have such antiquated amenity . it be no surprise that instead of come to Grimsby , Cleethorpes or Immingham , businesspeople will instead go direct from London to Hull from King ' s Cross . as Humber - base business , they stay in accommodation there , perhaps with a trip over the Humber bridge for half a day . that be not enough for we to be able showcase our whole northern Lincolnshire offering . in June , my predecessor — and my successor , actually — announce on social medium that a direct train would be up and run by Christmas . I wonder if the Minister could enlighten we on the background of that assertion ? I have be unable to find much more than a hope from the previous Transport Minister . I be concerned that , perhaps , false hope have be provide to resident in my constituency . I be conscious of time , and I want to let the hon . member for Brigg and Immingham ( Martin Vickers ) speak for a few minute because I know that he be keen to contribute , but I will finish by say that back in 2003 , the then MP for Cleethorpes , Shona McIsaac , have a debate on exactly the same issue relate to the a180 . at that time , a 10 - year resurfacing programme be in place , promise action between 2002 and 2005 . here we be again . please , will the Minister assist I in make some progress for my constituent ? I congratulate my constituency neighbour , the hon . member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) , on secure this debate . it be an important one and , as she know , an issue that I have be campaign on . indeed , when she be previously in this House we hold numerous meeting with Ministers and the like about it . the new Brigg and Immingham constituency have 11 railway station , the large port in the country and an international airport , yet we be still struggle to get the a180 resurface and a direct train service to London . this afternoon I be look at when I first raise this matter in the House — it be in 2011 , on a debate about High Speed 2 , ironically . my understanding be that the previous Secretary of State have approve the start of the direct service from Grimsby and have instruct LNER to incorporate it in its negotiation with Network Rail about the forthcoming winter timetable . as the hon . Lady say , it would be nice if the Minister could confirm that that be the case . the a180 be an issue that have be rumble on — no pun intended — for at least the 14 year that I have be a Member of the House . in 2018 , I hold a public meeting in stallingborough village hall , and Highways England — as it be call at that time — say that resurfacing would commence and be complete during the 2020 - 21 financial year , which be subsequently confirm in a letter from the Minister . the situation at the moment as I understand it be that a programme exist to spend £ 9 million in the current financial year to deal with particularly dangerous stretch , but I be tell now that complete resurfacing from Barnetby Top to Grimsby , which be essential , be now in the £ 300 million - plus category , and will need authorise as a major capital project . very briefly , there be a couple of other point worth mention . the train service that run through Brigg , the Sheffield - Gainsborough - Brigg - Cleethorpes train service , be until fairly recently a one day a week service , with three service on a Saturday . that have now change to a five day a week service , but it give only 90 minute in either Grimsby — if people want , as they should , to stop there to do their shopping in Freshney Place — or Cleethorpes . it give they a mere 90 minute to explore the beach and all that Cleethorpes can offer . let we get something sort . a regular service on that stretch of line would be greatly appreciate . my final comment be on the Cleethorpes to Barton service , which be a bit of a Cinderella service . there be so many cancellation and the timing be not good for commuter who want to use it . it need to be fully restructure , so I urge the Minister to look at that . I can not allow another speech , but intervention on the Minister , if the Minister choose to accept they , be permit . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) on secure today ' s debate and on return to these Benches . I know she will represent her constituent wonderfully well , as she always do , and speak passionately , as we have just hear , about issue in her constituency and across northern Lincolnshire — an area she be rightly proud of and ambitious for . I be grateful for the opportunity to discuss transport in this region today . there be certainly some attempt to broaden out the debate beyond north Lincolnshire . I understand the desire to talk about Lincolnshire , but I will perhaps stay clear of Northern Ireland , where transport be a devolved matter . nevertheless , I be impressed with the determination of the hon . member for South Antrim ( Robin Swann ) to speak for his constituent . let I assure hon . member that the Government understand the importance of transport to the people , community and business power local economy across the country , include on the south bank of the Humber . I will begin with the a180 . I be very aware that my hon . friend and her labour predecessor have previously raise the issue of road noise on this vital road for those travel to and from her constituency . assessment of road noise on the a180 have be undertake by National Highways . those assessment be carry out near Stallingborough — I hope I have pronounce that correctly — in May 2024 , ahead of propose concrete repair . the noise level record be between 65 . 9 and 82 dB , which I understand be reasonably loud for a driver over a sustained journey . however , I be afraid that they be also consistent with the expect amount of noise to be generate , give the volume of traffic the a180 support . the age of the road be also an important consideration here , as wear and tear increase the level of noise generate . that be say , I fully understand the frustration that can be cause by sustained road noise for both driver and those live near the road . in the last year , National Highways have carry out three road surface improvement on the a180 , with a fourth plan to commence this October — in just a few week ' time . those work have and will reduce noise and improve road safety . subject to confirmation of funding , additional surface treatment work be plan for the third road investment strategy period and , when finish , it should substantially reduce noise level along the route . the work will be of significant benefit to the life of my hon . friend ' s constituent , and those of other hon . member , both those live close to the a180 and those who regularly drive along the road . I completely understand my hon . friend ' s desire to make the journey to her coastal community as smooth and pleasant as possible , both for her constituent and for those make the important business journey that she describe . let I turn to the introduction of a direct train to London from Cleethorpes and Grimsby . the benefit of have direct link to the capital be clear : that be why we be work with industry to address the timetabling , financial , operational and infrastructure issue that need to be resolve before a service to Cleethorpes can be introduce — all of that once the east coast main line timetable change have be implement . assessment make by LNER and Network Rail have confirm that LNER service can call at Cleethorpes and Grimsby , but in order for LNER train to serve Market Rasen station , significant change to platform length and height be require , as well as a new foot crossing to allow safe access to platform . my noble Friend Lord Hendy , the Minister for Rail , will consider the proposal that have be make , with final approval subject to funding and a thorough business case process . that be the case before the general election , and it be still the case now . the previous Rail Minister talk of an ambition to introduce the service , but I be sure that my hon . friend and other member understand that an ambition be not the same as a promise . in the meantime , address the performance of rail service in the region in advance of any decision on direct service between London and Cleethorpes and Grimsby will significantly improve journey and reduce delay . my hon . friend paint a picture , very effectively , of the impact on rail traveller when the integration between service be not work properly . I be pleased that TransPennine have improve its service significantly over the last year , but it be clear that there be still room for improvement , and , as my hon . friend know , my right hon . friend the Secretary of State have waste no time in hold train operator to account for poor performance . in her first month in the job , she meet the manage director of TransPennine Express and Network Rail representative to demand action . between 21 July and 17 August , only about 50 % of all train on the route run to time , with few than 80 % arrive within three minute of timetable . during that period cancellation stand at 3 . 4 % , with an increase attribute to problem with the Keadby swing bridge on 1 and 5 August , along with several Network Rail incident . I will say more in a moment about how bring track and train together under Great British Railways can help to drive improvement , because they be very much need . northern ' s performance over the last few month have be unacceptable . between 17 July and 21 August , train on the Doncaster - Scunthorpe route arrive on time only 78 % of the time . the proportion of total cancellation be about 4 % , although , depend on the day and condition of travel , passenger may have experience a well or bad service than that . in July , the Rail North Partnership , through which my Department and Transport for the North jointly manage Northern ' s contract , serve it with a breach notice which compel it to produce a formal recovery plan . it will be require to explain how it will tackle the underlie issue that be hold back performance , result in the current unreliable service . the plan will be scrutinise by my Department and by northern leader through Transport for the North ' s Rail North Committee . we will ensure that the need and expectation of passenger , include those in north and north - east Lincolnshire , be put at the heart of Northern ' s recovery and development . let I now address the daily — well , five day a week — Sheffield - Cleethorpes service . I remember when the Brigg line service run only on Saturdays , and I be probably among a select group who have actually travel on the service ; but the hon . member for Brigg and Immingham ( Martin Vickers ) already know that , because we take the trip together and stop for a cuppa in Cleethorpes . the service be primarily intend to maintain route knowledge on the Brigg line in case of diversion . although I appreciate the appetite for service to spend more time in Grimsby and Cleethorpes , Northern ' s turnaround at Cleethorpes be necessitate by other demand on the network , include from freight service , and by crew rostere . add an additional service on the route could create clash and would cost between £ 400 , 000 and £ 900 , 000 a year , depend on staff and roll stock demand . naturally , the Department require operator to match their service to demand . demand remain low on the exist service from Sheffield to Cleethorpes , which reach only about 30 % of their capacity even during the busy time . Most of the demand on the service be drive by passenger join at Worksop and Retford for Sheffield , or by northern ' s competitive leisure pricing between Sheffield and Cleethorpes , although TransPennine train also offer service over a similar route . demand on the route be also very seasonal ; I know from my Nottingham constituency how much city resident enjoy a trip to the east coast in the height of summer , but they find it less appealing on wet and windy day in the winter . I take the Minister ' s point about the small number of passenger on the route , but that be partly because there be only one service a day . if there be a regular service that people know be there — even every three hour , shall we say — they could spend the day in Cleethorpes . it would encourage more passenger on to the route . the hon . Member make an important point that we will certainly look at , but I be sure he understand that , give the capacity and give the other way in which people can travel , it be challenging . indicative modelling of an additional service suggest an industry revenue uplift of approximately £ 35 , 000 a year , although most of that be achieve by improve the service between Worksop and Retford and Sheffield . it would increase Northern ' s subsidy requirement and would therefore raise cost significantly . this money be not available in Northern ' s current budget . this Government have be clear that performance on the railway must improve , and we be commit to deliver a unified and simplified rail system that focus on improve service for passenger and well value for taxpayer . as my hon . friend the Member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes know , just this week the House of Commons pass a Bill to bring passenger service back into public ownership . by end year of fragmentation and waste , we will ensure that the railway serve the need of passenger and the taxpayer , rather than line the pocket of private sector operator . bring train operation into public ownership be just the first step in the Government ' s plan to improve the railway for passenger and taxpayer . we will bring forward further legislation to create great British Railways , a new arm ' s length body that will act as a direct mind for the railway . this will ensure the high standard of customer service and operational performance , with a relentless focus on deliver for passenger and freight customer . to achieve our goal , rail must become part of a reliable and efficient integrate transport network , include in the region that hon . member here represent . improve bus service be also a top priority . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State have be clear that bus be the lifeblood of our community . we have not discuss they much today , but they can improve access to education , job and leisure opportunity , as well as connect we with our friend and family . as the Government strive to kick - start the economy , bus will be central in address regional inequality and deliver growth . that be why we have set out an action plan to deliver well bus service , grow passenger number and drive opportunity to underserved region . a core part of the plan be pass the well bus Bill , which will be introduce in this Session . be I run short of time ? indicate assent . I will cut to the chase . the Bill will give local leader the tool to deliver well bus service and will ensure that network meet the need of the community who rely on they . however , I need to say that this Government , as the Chancellor have clearly set out , have inherit an extremely challenging financial situation , with a £ 22 billion public spending gap leave by the previous Administration in this year alone . the gap between promise scheme and the money available to deliver they have be abundantly clear . I know that this be not the first time that these issue have be raise . my hon . friend the Member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes have make a strong argument on behalf of her constituent . I reassure she that this Government have hear clearly the case that she and other hon . member have make , and that we will continue take action to address the issue that have be debate today . question put and agree to . House adjourn .