business before Questions David Fuller Case Resolved , that an humble Address be present to his Majesty , that he will be graciously pleased to give direction that there be lay before this House a Return of a report , date 28 November 2023 , entitle Independent Inquiry into the issue raise by the David Fuller case - phase 1 Report . — ( Mark Fletcher . ) Oral Answers to Questions Energy Security and Net Zero the Secretary of State be ask — Household income : energy cost if she will make an estimate of the proportion of household that spend more than 10 % of their income on energy cost in ( a ) 2021 and ( b ) 2022 . in England , the share of household require to spend more than 10 % of their income on energy after housing cost be 21 % in 2021 and 30 % in 2022 , follow the invasion of Ukraine that year . we provide close to £ 40 billion of energy support to household and business last winter , one of the most generous level in Europe . since then , we have see the Ofgem price cap fall from £ 4 , 279 at its peak in January 2023 to £ 1 , 928 from January 2024 . More than 20 % of Rotherham household be live in fuel poverty , yet the Government ' s flagship energy policy will not , by their own admission , save a single penny from those household ' energy bill . bill be set to rise again in January . how can the Minister justify the Government ' s appal failure to act to support my constituent , struggle to heat their home this winter ? the extra support announce by the Chancellor last week bring our total cost of live support to £ 104 billion over the period 2022 to 2025 . that be one of the large support package anywhere in Europe . on top of that , we be provide £ 900 in cost of live payment across 2023 and 2024 to ensure that support get to those most in need . I recently bump into Christopher Thexton , who be one of the " green doctor " work out of College House in Barrow . he do an amazing job with his team , go into home to try to help people to save money on their energy bill and reduce the cost of living , whether that be help with energy debt , fix draft in their home or even change the lightbulb to make they more energy - efficient , but demand be massively outstrip supply . can my right hon . friend speak to whether any more support be available to such team to help people on the ground to reduce their energy bill ? we be spend £ 20 billion on energy efficiency over this Parliament and the next . we can be proud of the step we have take so far . when we take over in 2010 , just 14 % of home be energy - efficient . now the number be 50 % , and we have plan to go far . I call the shadow Minister . an estimate 6 . 3 million household be in fuel poverty across the UK . Ofgem have announce that energy debt have reach £ 2 . 6 billion . with million of people face another difficult winter , the Government promise to consult on a social tariff to help the most vulnerable . can the Secretary of State provide an update on that consultation ? People mean many different thing by a social tariff , but fundamentally it be about provide people with support to help with their bill . just in the autumn statement , we have increase the national living wage , which be worth £ 1 , 800 to people ; increase benefit by 6 . 7 % , which be worth £ 470 ; and cut national insurance contribution , which be worth £ 450 . those be all on top of the £ 900 cost of live support we already have in place . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . Thursday be Fuel Poverty Awareness Day , and recently the Scottish Fuel Poverty Advisory Panel estimate that nearly 30 % of household in Scotland be face extreme fuel poverty , up from 12 % in 2019 . do the Secretary of State agree that at the very least that be concern ? somehow a third of my constituent in the north - east of Scotland — home to a 50 - year bonanza for his Majesty ' s Treasury — live in energy - rich Scotland but find themselves in fuel poverty . be that what unionist mean by pool and share resource ? we have take energy price go up incredibly seriously , which be why we have spend £ 104 billion protect the british people . that be one of the most generous package anywhere in Europe . if the hon . member care about the income of people in Scotland , I suggest that he back british oil and gas job . Inflation Reduction Act and Low Carbon Industries what recent assessment she have make of the impact of the US Inflation Reduction Act on level of investment in low carbon industry in the UK . in the UK , we have see nearly £ 200 billion - worth of investment in low carbon sector since 2010 . that be 50 % more than the US as a share of gdp . at the global investment summit just yesterday , it be clear that business see Britain very much as open for business , and that be back up by £ 29 billion - worth of investment . in the summer , I hear about President Biden ' s plan to use America ' s industrial might to power up New York use offshore wind . give that we need to turbocharge the green economy , why will the Government ' s response to the Inflation Reduction Act not come into effect until 2025 ? we have take many step already . we have set out new plan for auction round 6 of renewable energy and for permanent economy - wide full expensing . we change planning , and we be unlock the grid . the fund that the hon . Member mention will unlock supply chain across the UK . what have people say ? Scottish Renewables have say it be " a shot in the arm for the sector " . the Offshore Wind Industry Council have say that it will help we retain our position as a " global leader " . it have be welcome by make UK , Energy UK and many other business as well . last week , the Chancellor ' s autumn statement include an important commitment on the Government ' s part to bring forward legislation to modernise the Crown Estate ' s investment and borrowing power , which be a vital step for deploy 16 GW of float offshore wind in the Celtic sea . that will benefit the whole of Wales , and we hope in particular my constituency and the port of Milford Haven . when be the Government likely to bring forward that important legislation ? my right hon . friend have be a doughty champion for the Celtic sea . he know that we have a commitment to unlock an additional 12 GW of wind power in the Celtic sea . that be important to we , and we will bring forward the legislation in due course . I call the shadow Minister . instead of properly respond to America ' s Inflation Reduction Act , the Government hold a meeting with business yesterday — you might not have see it , Mr Speaker , as it do not make any of the front page . be the global investment summit not just a distraction from the same old fundamental — business confidence be down , export be down , and growth forecast be down after 13 year of instability and uncertainty ? do the Secretary of State think that lack of business confidence be because her government trash the economy last year , because her Government tell business to eff off , or because , as Mark Carney say , the Government have " juvenilise " the climate debate instead of use it as a driver of good job ? do she not agree with those from a global pension fund I speak to this morning who say it be time we get some adult in the room ? what we see yesterday be £ 7 billion from Iberdrola for UK electricity network and renewable , and £ 300 million from Aira , the heat pump installer . in the last couple of week , we have have £ 500 million from Sea Wind , £ 2 billion from Nissan , and £ 186 million from Siemens Gamesa . what the hon . Lady should understand be that there be a difference between what the Government be offer , which be £ 29 billion of investment , and what Labour be offering , which be £ 28 billion of borrowing . Net Zero target : business what recent discussion she have have with business on the Government ' s net zero target . what recent assessment she have make of the adequacy of the contribution of business to help meet the UK ' s net zero target . as a fellow Lancastrian , I hope you have a good Lancashire Day yesterday , Mr Speaker . as a Yorkshire MP , I resent that remark . [ laughter . ] I meet regularly with business leader and organisation . I chair or co - chair , among other : the Offshore Wind Industry Council , which I will be go straight to after question ; the solar taskforce ; the green job delivery group , which meet yesterday ; the North sea transition forum , which I will attend tomorrow ; and , from a strategic cross - cut point of view , the Net Zero Council . of course , the Secretary of State and I meet global leader yesterday . well , as the Minister seem to meet so many business leader , he must have hear their shock and horror about the Government ' s roll - back on net zero . early this month , the aviva chief executive officer Amanda Blanc say that the Government be put our climate goal as a country " under threat " , put at risk " job , growth and the additional investment the UK require " . she be not wrong , be she ? the hon . Gentleman have a well - found and highly esteemed reputation for anger . under this Government , this country have cut its emission more than any other major economy on the planet , and we have the most ambitious plan for 2030 . when I attend COP28 next week , we will be invite and support other to join the UK , which under this Conservative Government have lead the way on a pathway to net zero . the Industrial Decarbonisation Research and Innovation Centre base at Heriot - Watt University in my constituency be do incredible work on the green transformation across the UK ' s industrial heartland . it be work with all the big industrial cluster and be support more than 30 university and research initiative , look at all aspect of the Government ' s decarbonisation challenge . as such , it be well place to assist business to meet our net zero target . the problem be that its funding be come to an end next March , and at present there be nothing to replace it . the science Minister promise I a meeting about this urgent issue several month ago , but it have be cancel a number of time . will the Minister advocate with his colleague so that I can get this meeting arrange and get funding in place for IDRIC to continue its fantastic work ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question and for champion vital research , not least in Scotland . I be look forward to meet scientist when I be in Scotland over the next couple of day . we have all hear her request , and it will be note . I call the Chair of the Environmental Audit Committee . my right hon . Friend mention that he will go to COP28 next week . could he remind Members of the House , particularly those on the Opposition Benches , of the measure take in last week ' s autumn statement to help to promote the green energy agenda in this country ? my hon . friend be quite right . we must never forget the parlous state of this country in 2010 . Less than 7 % of our electricity come from renewable — that be the legacy of the right hon . member for Doncaster North ( Edward Miliband ) . in the first quarter of this year , that be nearly 48 % . opposition Members raise the issue of people be cold and unable to pay their bill , but just 14 % of home be insulate properly ; now , it be 50 % . in last week ' s autumn statement we hear announcement about the grid and — order . the Minister talk about emission , and we be get a lot of they from he today . my constituent put in 10 % of the energy into the national grid from two nuclear power station . we be no . 7 on the template for new build , so I would like to invite the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) to come to Heysham to see for himself the good work of EDF and the new nuclear power programme that be come to my constituency . my hon . friend be a stout champion not only of the pathway to net zero but of the job and prosperity that come with it . it be with great alacrity that I accept on behalf of my hon . friend the Minister . Fuel Poverty what assessment her Department have make of trend in the level of fuel poverty since 2018 . the share of household in fuel poverty in England reduce every year between 2010 and 2021 , with energy efficiency be the key driver . although fuel poverty be devolve , we continue to engage with the devolved administration , include on specific scheme such as the energy company obligation and the warm home discount . across the world and in the United Kingdom , human right be be erode and fuel poverty be on the rise . this government could address both by declare access to energy a human right . it would mean that people could not be cut off willy - nilly simply because they could not afford to pay for their energy at that time . do the Minister agree that energy should be a human right ? if not , will she tell I which human being she believe should not have the right to heat their home ? as the hon . Lady indicate , the Government take fuel poverty incredibly seriously . everybody have the right to heat . we have be help people with their energy bill , include a £ 900 cost of live allowance , as well as all the great thing that we announce in the autumn statement . community Energy Schemes what step her Department be take to support the development of community energy scheme . the Government have create a new £ 10 million community energy fund to support community energy project in England . we be work with the sector on content and a timetable for a consultation on barrier for community energy project . do the Minister recognise the frustration and disappointment at the length of time and legislative barrier that remain for campaign community group who want community energy scheme to move forward ? it be the most secure way of generate electricity . the Conservatives be suppose to be the party of free market and competition , so why be they deny consumer the choice that would come with an exciting community energy scheme ? far from deny consumer opportunity , we be already begin to work with organisation , such as the Community Energy Contact Group . on the content of the consultation we launch and whether it should include solution to barrier , I will need to take a view when it respond . my right hon . friend the Minister for Energy Security and Net Zero early mention the solar taskforce . will my hon . friend the Under - Secretary liaise with his colleague and the National Farmers Union on combine community energy scheme with farmer and the rural sector ? the solar taskforce mention acre of supermarket rooftop be available for solar , but make no reference to farm building . it make sense that community scheme , work with local farmer in rural area , can deliver community energy and allow farmer to diversify . I hear very much what my right hon . friend say and understand his concern . it be therefore with equal alacrity that I accept a meeting on my right hon . friend the Minister ' s behalf to discuss those issue move forward . Prepayment Meters : Vulnerable Households if she will make an assessment of the impact of the mandatory code of practice for the involuntary installation of prepayment meter on vulnerable household . if she will make an assessment of the impact of the mandatory code of practice for the involuntary installation of prepayment meter on vulnerable household . the Secretary of State and I meet ceo of energy supplier recently . we emphasise that Ofgem ' s new rule must be implement and lead to improve protection for vulnerable consumer . we be work closely with Ofgem and the industry to ensure that that be the case . the Minister will be aware that the ban on the involuntary installation of prepayment meter will be lift soon . that will mean family with child over two year old and pensioner under 75 who be still vulnerable will potentially face the high cost of prepayment meter . there be the possibility , of course , that when they run out of token they will be cut off . be that right ? first of all , we have be mindful of ensure that there be no high cost to prepayment meter . we be mindful of the fact that prepayment meter have a place in certain household , because we be very sure that we must not increase debt . however , one reason why we scrutinise the process so carefully be to ensure that it do not impact negatively on vulnerable customer . I thank the Minister for that answer , but what be it about the code of practice that mean two - year - old be vulnerable but three - year - old be not ? what be the difference between those household ? why have Scottish Power be able to go to court to obtain warrant to install prepayment meter forcibly before it have be able to demonstrate any compliance with the code ? be that not the wrong way around ? just for assurance , we have hold conversation with Ofgem and supplier to make sure no force instalment have take place yet . we be scrutinise the system to ensure that all vulnerable people be able to access the energy they need . Onshore Wind Farms if she will take step to increase the number of onshore wind farm . this have be a record year for onshore wind , which be already the large renewable technology . the late contract for difference add an unprecedented 1 . 7 GW . the Minister seem to be compare figure I have not see . if it be a record year , why have we see such a dramatic drop in planning application for onshore wind farm and in the number of onshore wind farm deliver ? from a peak of 64 application in 2011 , it go right down to zero in 2019 and now to 10 in 2022 , the late figure the House of Commons Library could provide . that do not seem like a record year to I . be it not time the Government stop shilly - shallye on onshore wind and back the builder , not the blocker ? the hon . Lady be renowned in the House for her arithmetic skill , but in this case they seem to have fail she . the 1 . 7 GW be a tremendous success . I share her enthusiasm for onshore wind where community support it . in September , the Government announce change to planning policy for onshore wind in England to help make it easy and quick for local planning authority to consider and , where appropriate , approve onshore wind project where there be local support . in the Kettering constituency there be 30 large wind turbine . together with solar panel , they generate enough renewable electricity to power all 45 , 000 home in the constituency . be this not yet another case of where Kettering lead , other follow ? my hon . friend have champion , do champion and , I be sure , will continue for many year to champion the good people of Kettering , and the fact that they be provide such leadership on net zero and the delivery of renewable after our parlous inheritance from the Labour party . let we make sure that we never go back to a system in which renewable be not bring on to our grid in the way they be today . I call the shadow Minister . the Minister be be a little shameless with his figure . we really ought to look at what be continue to happen in England . in England , industry and other body warn that the suppose change to onshore planning restriction that be announce in September be far too timid to make any real difference to the dearth of new onshore wind . I recently visit the site in Leighton Buzzard of the only turbine that have be put in place onshore in England since those suppose restriction be lift . it turn out that it have be in the planning process since 2014 , and be not on a new site anyway . the Department ' s renewable energy planning database show that there be precisely zero new scheme in the pipeline in England . should the Minister not go away and reconsider the remain planning and funding restriction on onshore wind so that it really can get go again ? as I have say , I share the enthusiasm on both side of the House for onshore wind . the Government have set regulation that require onshore wind developer to consult community in advance of submit a planning application , as well as have it consult on post - submission . we make no apology for roll out this transformation in renewable technology in concert with community , rather than seek to ride roughshod over they . AQUIND Interconnector Project when she plan to make a decision on the application for development consent for the propose AQUIND interconnector project . the propose AQUIND interconnector project be a live planning application currently be redetermine by my right hon . friend the Secretary of State , who be progress the work in the normal course of business . that mean that , as set out in the planning propriety guidance , I be unable to give any further information on the progress of this live case . portsmouth people have wait far too long for the Government to decide against AQUIND . will the co - owner ' s donation of more than £ 1 million to the Tories — include £ 6 , 000 to the Prime Minister ' s constituency party and over £ 70 , 000 to the Chancellor — be a factor in the Minister ' s decision on what be a disastrous project for Portsmouth ? the Secretary of State be follow a well - establish planning process . I be sorry that I can not say any more about this live case beyond what I have say already ; it be with the Department and the Secretary of State for a decision . Climate Change Committee : Progress report what assessment she have make of the implication for her policy of the Climate Change Committee ' s 2023 progress report to Parliament . the Climate Change Committee itself have say that there be " no material difference " in our overall projection after we make the change to policy in September . the Government have take considerable further step since then , include our introduction of the zero - emission vehicle mandate , our agreement with Tata Steel on industrial electrification in Port Talbot , and reform of electricity grid connection . the Climate Change Committee have state that the UK need to " regain its international climate leadership " , but last year the Prime Minister be uninterested in attend COP27 . the committee ' s recent report to Parliament make it clear that the UK be " no long a climate leader " . since then we have see approval for massive oilfield , weakened climate target , and the resignation of a Minister because the Prime Minister be so " uninterested " . cop28 be day away , and there be still confusion over whether the Government will push for the phasing out of fossil fuel . give all that , be it not fair to say that the Government be fail to do everything possible to halt the climate breakdown ? the UK have one of the most ambitious climate target in comparison with any of our international peer . the UN ' s emission gap report , publish just last week , show that the UK be expect to reduce emission between 2015 and 2030 at the fast rate in the G20 group . we remain extremely ambitious about climate change . we have over - deliver on all our carbon budget to date , and the work that have be do show that we will continue to do so . the committee ' s recent progress report advocate a fast transition to low - carbon energy . what fiscal and regulatory measure be the Government take to encourage more capital investment by business in this important area ? we be already take step . we have set out new plan for another round of renewable auction , and we have set out the most radical plan to unlock the electricity grid since the 1950 . we have also launch a new gigafund that will unlock supply chain across all these area , and we can see that investor be vote with their foot . when it come to national and household energy security , ownership matter , as champion by the Co - op party . the Labour party be commit to 1 million owner of UK - produce renewable energy , with 8 GW that will be cheap , green and own by the people here in the UK , so why will the Government not meet that ambition ? I think the hon . Gentleman ' s argument be completely wrong - headed . let we look at what the UK Government have do since 2010 . we now have the first , second , third , fourth and fifth large offshore wind farm anywhere in the world . as I have say , the plan we have set out mean that yesterday we be able to secure £ 29 billion of investment into this country . that will drive job and prosperity . the Opposition ' s plan be to borrow £ 28 billion , which would only drive up inflation . yesterday be Lancashire Day and today be Bedfordshire Day — happy Bedfordshire Day to all member . it be the job of the Climate Change Committee to be enthusiastic about achieve our net zero goal . it be the responsibility of the Government to be fiscally prudent in achieve that objective . do my right hon . friend agree with the Prime Minister that we need to be clear with the british public all the way along about the cost that will be incur to achieve our net zero ambition ? my hon . friend make an excellent point . it be really important that we be honest with the british public . we be pursue the most ambitious climate target , but we will do so in a sensible way that protect the economy , grow job and investment , and ensure that we can deliver for the country not only on energy security but on our climate change ambition . I call the shadow Minister . I have to say that I spend the first 40 year of my life in Bedfordshire and I have no idea that Bedfordshire Day be a thing , but happy Bedfordshire Day anyway . fifteen year ago , the Labour Government introduce the Climate Change Act 2008 , a landmark piece of legislation that have guide climate policy and progress in this country and inspire similar action around the world — admirably lead , it have to be say , by my right hon . friend the Member for Doncaster North ( Edward Miliband ) . but where be that leadership now ? how can the Prime Minister show his face at COP when , in the word of the Climate Change Committee , his entirely cynical backtracking have create " widespread uncertainty for consumer and the supply chain " , have increase " both energy bill and motoring cost " and make " Net Zero considerably hard to achieve " ? I think the hon . Lady be put a lot of word into the Climate Change Committee ' s mouth there . what it actually say be that , in term of emission , it would make no material difference . as I have say , the UN ' s emission gap report show just last week that the UK be expect to reduce emission between 2015 and 2030 at the fast rate in the G20 group . this be yet more doom and gloom from the Opposition . if we look at what we have actually achieve , we can see that we have the most ambitious target in the world and we have set out unprecedented level of detail . we will continue to do so . Energy Bills Alternative Funds what recent assessment she have make of the effectiveness of the energy bill support scheme alternative fund and the alternative fuel payment alternative fund . the Government provide energy bill support through the energy bill support scheme alternative funding to over 150 , 000 household , and via the alternative fuel payment alternative fund to nearly 90 , 000 household that could not automatically access this vital support . energy bill be up 50 % since 2021 , but there be no mention of this in the autumn statement and £ 440 million earmark for the most vulnerable household go unspent last year , yet in my constituency of Edinburgh West , pensioner , carer and disabled people who often have to use more electricity for life - save equipment be pay those big bill . all of they be also pay high standing charge than elsewhere in the UK . if the Chancellor will not commit to reopen the energy bill support scheme or the alternative fuel payment scheme , will the Secretary of State do so ? of course , as a government we be look at the standing charge ; it be imperative that we do that and Ofgem be work through that . we have also give an unprecedented amount of support to household and non - domestic organisation . I reiterate that there be support at the moment . we have the £ 900 for the cost of living . we also have the disability allowance and other allowance . to give assurance , I meet regularly with all stakeholder . National Grid Infrastructure : East of England what discussion she have have with National Grid on its plan timetable for build new substation , pylon and cable in the east of England . I frequently meet the network company to discuss their important work develop our electricity transmission network . I have also be pleased to meet community and mps from East Anglia to discuss concern about network infrastructure . however , as the decision maker for planning consent , the Department do not get involve in individual project . I feel move to find a Clacton Day . why not ? I have call for the old Bradwell site on the Dengie peninsula to be use for the arrival of undersea cable , as oppose to wreck the environment of Essex and other area with substation , pylon and so on . with the scrapping of High Speed 2 as an example , do my hon . friend agree that public body now need to do a well job of assess possible alternative , instead of just barrel forward with boatload of taxpayer ' cash and destroy our beautiful countryside ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . as he know from when we meet to discuss this in June , the Electricity System Operator be responsible for plan the design and location of grid reinforcement , while transmission owner develop individual project . I understand that Bradwell have be assess but be not deem appropriate for this project . however , I can not comment on specific project , in order to avoid prejudice planning decision . I would be very happy to meet my hon . friend again to discuss this in further detail . offshore Wind sector what recent discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on support for worker in the offshore wind sector . this Government be proud to have make the UK a global leader in offshore wind , and the industry believe that UK job in the sector will rise from the current 30 , 000 - plus to 100 , 000 - plus by 2030 — if , of course , conservative stewardship continue . job for whom ? that be the question . we have already see the shameful situation of UK seafarer who work in the offshore wind sector be lay off , to be replace by low - wage , exploit migrant labour . as the sector develop , as we see people go out to work on the turbine for long and as we see the building of float accommodation for they to stay on , there be a huge risk that those worker — not just those on the supply ship — will also face exploitation . will the Minister work with Cabinet colleague to ensure that the national minimum wage apply in the offshore sector beyond the 12 - mile territorial limit ? that be the solution to protect our worker , and those from abroad , from be exploit . I thank the hon . gentleman for his question , and I share his enthusiasm for make sure that we continue the development of good , well - pay job , and the development of the skill require to help people access those job , and that we do not have exploitation onshore or offshore during that development . it be a huge opportunity for the United Kingdom and for Scotland . work together , I be sure we can develop it . as we know from the excellent Rampion wind farm in Sussex bay — hopefully it will soon be expand — offshore wind farm support worker not just in energy production but in tourism , fishing and leisure too . this year we celebrate 50 year of the Protection of Wrecks Act 1973 . it be estimate that there be more than 6 , 000 wreck around the UK coast , but only 57 of they be list , so will my right hon . friend speak to his colleague in the Department for Culture , Media and Sport about how we can co - ordinate activity between new wind farm and marine archaeologist so that we can boost both our effort to combat climate change and our cultural protection , which will give particular assistance to coastal community ? as ever , my hon . friend put his finger on an important point . exist asset such as wreck have so many use , all of which need to be understand . our sea look so large , but they have multiple use for shipping , defence and energy . we be work to ensure that we have a strategic , join - up energy plan and a spatial strategy so that wreck , marine protect area and other interest can all be protect in an integrated manner . Energy Bills Support : shropshire what step her Department be take to support people in Shropshire with their energy bill . the Government be continue to provide up to £ 900 of cost of live support throughout 2023 - 24 to help vulnerable household , which be an increase on the £ 650 that we provide the previous year , as well as targeted support such as £ 150 through the warm home discount . I thank my hon . friend for that answer . farmer in my constituency and the neighbouring Ludlow constituency be among the most productive in the United Kingdom and , speak as one of the Prime Minister ' s trade envoy , we be very proud of their contribution to british export . at the moment , they be rather adversely affect by rise energy cost . what additional assistance will the Government give to the agricultural sector to help this very important industry survive ? my hon . friend be a champion for Shropshire and for the farming industry . farmer in Shropshire constituency and across the UK have already benefit from the energy bill relief scheme , which end on 31 March and provide more than £ 7 . 4 billion of support . I call the Chair of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee . I wish to welcome faroese politician who be here watch today . in the past year , the energy bill support scheme alternative fund be set up to help 900 , 000 household . as the Minister say early , only about 150 , 000 — 141 , 000 , in fact — get the £ 400 promise , which mean that 750 , 000 eligible household miss out on their £ 400 . with one in four bill payer now in energy debt , will the Government keep their promise and make good to those 750 , 000 who miss out on that money when the scheme close in May ? as I state , the alternative fund be an incredible support and provide household with that support . the Government lend in to try to ensure that everyone who be entitle to the funding be able to receive it . now that the scheme have close , the money will return to his Majesty ' s Treasury . energy - intensive Industries what step her Department be take to help energy - intensive industry to decarbonise . what step her Department be take to help energy - intensive industry to decarbonise . the Government have commit £ 20 billion to support early development of CCUS — carbon capture , usage and storage — and £ 500 million to the industrial energy transformation fund to help industry to decarbonise , with phase 3 expect to open for application in early 2024 . we be still wait for a lot of that to happen . the Tees Valley host a huge number of energy - intensive industry , but we have lose many of they over the year — a few year ago it be steelmaking , but more recently we see the demise of the Cleveland Bridge & Engineering Company at Darlington , which build the Sydney harbour bridge . the last ammonia manufacture plant in the country , that of CF Fertilisers , close its door this year , as do Mitsubishi ' s Cassel work , with both cite that their energy cost be way high than those of their european and american competitor . what be minister go to do to ensure that we do not have any more closure as a result of their policy failure ? it be a shame that the hon . Gentleman could not find it within himself to congratulate Mayor Ben Houchen on all the work he be do to bring steelmaking back to the Tees Valley for the first time in a generation . the Government be engage with the steel industry on a sustainable future , as announce on 15 September . Tata Steel expect to invest £ 1 . 25 billion , include a UK Government grant worth up to £ 500 million , in a new electric arc furnace . frankly , the hon . Gentleman should start talk up the Tees Valley . Sheffield have a proud history of steelmaking , so much so that we be know globally as the " steel city . " to this day , steel support thousand of job in Sheffield , but repeat failure by this Government mean that more and more family be worried about the future of this key industry and the livelihood that depend on it . will the Minister commit to give this vital sector the support it need to decarbonise in a fair way , while ensure that the industry have a green , sustainable and prosperous future ? I thank the hon . Lady for that question and , yes , I can give that commitment , because we be already engage in that work . we be work with company up and down the UK to ensure that they be able to decarbonise and deliver secure , high - wage , high - skilled job into the future , which will be the backbone of this economy as we move forward . first , let I thank the Government for the support they give for CCUS , and not least the Acorn project in my constituency . do my hon . friend agree that CCUS need to be develop across the UK at pace ? do he recognise the particular value of new CCUS power station , such as the plan project in Peterhead in my constituency , which will generate more than 900 MW and , in conjunction with the Acorn project , will do so 95 % emission - free ? yes , I thank my hon . friend and congratulate he on his relentless effort to decarbonise the North sea and the north - east of Scotland , and his support for the Acorn project . I be pleased to join he and the Prime Minister at the announcement on that in the summer . as my hon . friend know , CCUS be a priority for this Government , and we be progress at pace . power CCUS will be a vital component of our route to net zero , which be why we be commit to support at least one power ccus plant by the mid - 2020s . the Government be take significant step to support industrial cluster around the UK . they be each at a different stage of development and much of the technology be emerge as we speak , but the 2030 target be quite close and the scale of investment run into billion of pound . what engagement be my hon . friend undertake to discuss investment plan with individual business , to ensure that they meet the target and use the late available technology ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right that investment be key to deliver our ambitious plan , which be why the Secretary of State be at the global investment summit yesterday . work with the Department for Business and Trade and the Minister for Investment , we be engage with company on a daily basis , inspect their investment plan to ensure they be fit for this country and the future , and will deliver the ambitious , world - lead target we have set ourselves to decarbonise and provide the job of the future for this country . Household Energy Efficiency if she will make an estimate of the number of household that have energy efficiency measure instal in ( a ) 2010 and ( b ) 2022 . in 2010 , 960 , 000 measure be instal . in 2022 , around 200 , 000 measure be instal . in 2010 , Government scheme be aim at low - cost , easy - to - install measure . in 2022 , our funding scheme focus on high - cost measure . upgrade home to energy performance certificate band C would create a huge economic and social boost to Britain . in my constituency of Chester more than half of home be below EPC c and almost 20 % of the housing stock be class as historic , as it be build before 1919 . what plan do the Department have to upskill the workforce and speed up the roll - out of energy efficient home , include historic building , such as the one in my constituency ? the hon . Lady make a good point about upskille the workforce . good progress have be make and around half of all home will now reach the Government ' s ambition of EPC C by 2035 , compare with just 14 % in 2010 . offshore wind : East of England whether she be take step to support the development of an offshore grid for wind farm energy in the east of England . grid reinforcement be critical to deliver our world lead offshore wind target . the electricity system operator be responsible for design a modern grid that use a mix of upgrade exist line , offshore transmission network and new underground and overhead line to bring this low - cost , homegrown generation to consumer . my constituent be angry about the ill - thought - out proposal by National Grid to impose 100 mile of pylon and overhead powerline between Norwich and Tilbury . will the Minister share with I , the House and my constituent what work he be do to ensure that the Government do all they can to encourage National Grid and developer to build an offshore grid that will provide more investment and growth in renewable , and pull the plug on these awful pylon ? as my right hon . friend know , I visit East Anglia a few month ago and I plan to visit again . I hear the frustration and the concern of her constituent , which she have bring to the House today . as she know , the ESO remain responsible for electricity network design . offshore routing be more expensive and the cost would be bear by consumer across the country . however , we will continue to engage with the ESO as it develop proposal that strike the balance of offshore and onshore infrastructure . I call the spokesperson for the Scottish National party , who must have a great connection with the east of England . it come as a great relief that the Minister be listen , certainly to my constituent and his own . there be extraordinary level of cheap green scottish renewable energy transmit to large consumer in industrial basis in the south by the network . this north - south transaction should rightly be do by subsea transmission cable , negate the need for onshore pylon and their attendant visual blight , environmental degradation , loss of productive farmland , costly compulsory purchase and wayleave charge . why be Angus and other scottish community now threaten with a new 400 kV pylon line , instead of transmit that energy south use subsea method ? I think there would have be well question . time be a bit tight , but please answer the question , Minister . the hon . Gentleman should probably direct that question to my Scottish Government counterpart , who be in the same party as he . he want to ride roughshod over the scottish planning system to allow for a fast deployment of this new energy infrastructure across Scotland , include in his and my own constituency . the Scottish Government have control over planning , the ESO have control over develop those plan and — order . let we come to topical question . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . since my last appearance at departmental question in September , we have show that Britain remain open for business . through our announcement on ar6 , we have take the next step towards 50 GW of offshore wind energy . we have announce £ 960 million of investment in advanced manufacturing for key net zero sector , include offshore wind network , carbon capture , usage and storage , hydrogen and nuclear . we have set out the most radical plan to update the grid since the 1950 . I have sign a memorandum of understanding with South Korea to ensure close co - operation on nuclear and offshore wind , bring in £ 10 billion as well . give the success of exempt the ceramics sector from the climate change levy , and the risk of carbon leakage from offshore the industry , will my right hon . friend seriously consider exempt the ceramics sector from the emission trading scheme ? I know that my hon . friend be a long - stand champion of the ceramics sector . the sector receive free allocation under the ETS , reduce carbon price exposure and mitigate its risk of carbon leakage . the Government be review the free allocation policy and will consult this year to ensure that we effectively support at - risk industry . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the world sorely need leadership at COP28 , but the verdict of our most globally respected climate expert , Lord Stern , early this month be damn . he say that the Government ' s backslide on climate action be a " deeply damaging mistake " — damage for the UK , the world and the future of we all . will the Secretary of State take this opportunity to place on record her response to Lord Stern ? the right hon . Gentleman should understand that we have the most ambitious climate target of any of our international peer . if he look at the delivery today , he will see that we overshot on carbon budget 1 and 2 , and we be on track to overshoot on carbon budget 3 . in fact , the UN gap report show just last week that between 2015 and 2030 the UK be expect to reduce emission at the fast rate of any of the G20 country . the Secretary of State have no response to Lord Stern . the problem be that he see a government preach one thing and do another . her negotiator at COP will argue to phase out fossil fuel , but she want to drill every last drop at home and open new coalmine . she will tell develop country that climate action be good for the economy , but the Government use climate delay to divide people here at home . do she not realise that climate hypocrisy just trash our reputation and undermine our leadership ? I completely reject that characterisation . at COP28 , we will be talk about the UK ' s leadership when it come to cut emission . we have cut emission more than any of our international peer by 1990 . even if we look forward to our target for 2030 , we see that we will still be cut emission by more than any of our international peer . that be something that the right hon . Gentleman would do well to welcome . paragraph 3 . 10 . 14 of the National Policy Framework Statement EN - 3 state that new solar farm should avoid the use of " ' good and most versatile ' agricultural land where possible " , use the designation of the agricultural land classification . but there be concern that field survey can artificially downgrade land . will my right hon . friend say that both she and the planning inspectorate will be vigilant in protect well and most versatile land and in ensure the integrity of land classification ? I thank my hon . friend for all his work champion both this area and the concern of his constituent . as he rightly say , plan policy and guidance encourage large solar project to locate on previously developed or low value land and we will indeed undertake to be vigilant in ensure that those principle be respect . give the UK ' s decline under this government to seventh place behind the US and Germany in attract green investment as per Ernst and Young ' s analysis , what urgent step be the Secretary of State take to boost our competitiveness in green industry ? the hypocrisy and the ignorance come from the Labour party be extraordinary . we have decarbonise more than any major economy on this earth and we will decarbonise more to 2030 , and we be do it by unlock a level of investment into renewable energy double that we have see in the United States . so , Labour can take its selective fact and put they where the sun don ' t shine . I think that we have have a few problem with language already . I be sure the Minister will think carefully before he answer again . what plan do the UK Government have to buy the Wylfa site and associate intellectual property from Horizon to expedite gigawatt development at Wylfa in my constituency of Ynys M ô n ? will the nuclear roadmap lie out a clear role for large gigawatt - scale nuclear project like Wylfa after Sizewell C ? it would not be energy question without a question on Wylfa from my hon . friend , who be such a champion for that technology and for her constituency . we all agree that Wylfa be a great candidate for new nuclear and one of several potential site that could host new project — [ interruption . ] ignore the luddite on the SNP Benches . as a first step towards a new national policy statement , the Government will consult later this year on a way forward to determine how new nuclear development might be locate . in energy - rich Scotland , roughly one in three household in my constituency be live in fuel poverty . a properly design social tariff would at least alleviate some of that poverty . why have the Government break their promise of a year ago to consult on a social tariff ? as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State indicate early , a social tariff can mean different thing to different people . we be consult supplier and many stakeholder to ensure that what we be do be the right thing . we be also look at flexibility around the warm home discount . in February , the Minister for Energy Security and Net Zero assure I from the Dispatch Box that a decision on hydrogen blending be come soon . seven month later , in September , the Department ' s consultation again promise that a decision would come soon . how can our constituent trust that this government know what they be do when they keep dither over prove technology that would cut our carbon emission , our constituent ' energy bill and our dependence on foreign gas import ? the Government aim to reach a strategic policy decision before the end of the year on whether to support blending of up to 20 % hydrogen by volume into the GB gas distribution network . we be build the evidence to determine whether blending offer strategic and economic value and meet the require safety standard . on the subject of fact , my hon . friend the Member for Southampton , Test ( Dr Whitehead ) just say that there be currently zero planning application in the pipeline for onshore wind in England . can the Minister please confirm whether that be true ? as I have say in early answer , we be seek to encourage more application . as far as I know , the hon . member for Southampton , Test ( Dr Whitehead ) may be right , which be exactly why we be consult on improve community benefit and have consult on change the planning system . I welcome the fact that the UK be do more offshore wind than any other country in Europe , but fisherman in Leigh - on - Sea be deeply concerned about the effect of expand offshore on fish stock . can the Minister assure I that renewable power production on the south Essex coast will also focus on tidal , and will he join my vision to make Southend pier a shine beacon of renewable , completely power by tidal energy ? I share my hon . friend ' s enthusiasm for tidal . we have have a specific pot in previous round of the CfD precisely to develop that . we be the world leader in deployment and will continue to be , and I hope that her vision for her local area will be fulfil . over the past year , the north - east have see a dramatic collapse in the number of home be upgrade through the Government ' s sustainable warmth and eco scheme . that poor record be cost household in my constituency dearly . what be the Minister go to do to put it right ? I have previously answer question on that and indicate that we have commit to make sure that we eradicate fuel poverty and support all people with their energy bill . with organisation such as the Dalton Nuclear Institute and the University of Bolton Institute for Materials Research and Innovation , combine with the Greater Manchester vision for " Atom Valley " , will my hon . friend update the House on the part that it will play in Britain ' s nuclear future ? I thank my hon . friend for his continued support for this grow and important sector . alongside the work of the nuclear skill taskforce , we be currently in phase b of our advanced modular reactor research , development and demonstration programme . we aim to demonstrate that technology by the 2030s to decarbonise industry and we welcome his support in that work . as part of the recent float offshore wind manufacture investment scheme , ambitious and comprehensive bid for funding to support development by three major industry player on the Tyne be unsuccessful . will the Minister meet I and those key Tyne business to discuss what further opportunity the Department can bring to mobilise the high - quality asset of our great river ? the Government be collaborate with industry to identify solution to unblock barrier to offshore wind deployment . I know that the UK Infrastructure Bank be provide support to the Port of Tyne . the FLOWMIS project be currently live , so I can not comment on it , but I would be happy to meet the hon . Lady to discuss these issue . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State have make a lot of progress in try to bring together a holistic network , but it be too late for community in Suffolk , Norfolk and Essex . in that regard , will she request that the electricity system operator publish its survey of the Bradwell site , and that it undertake a fresh one , with a full cost - benefit analysis , as a pilot for future connection ? as my right hon . friend know , the ESO have conduct an investigation into Bradwell and its suitability , but I be happy to meet she again to discuss Bradwell , the location of future project , and how we might work together to ensure that her constituent see the benefit of any future energy infrastructure build in that part of the country . it now seem clear that the fund that the Government plan to commit to loss and damage at COP28 will come from the UK ' s exist climate finance commitment . we can not tackle the climate crisis by rob Peter to pay Paul . give that a properly resource and operational loss and damage finance fund have to be a litmus test of success , will the Minister commit to look at new and additional form of funding , include a permanent windfall tax on fossil fuel company and a tax on high - emission travel , to deliver new finance and make polluter pay ? the hon . Lady be right to highlight loss and damage as we approach COP28 . we be pleased to play our part on the transitional committee in get a recommendation to COP , and we look forward to its be operationalise in the near future . I agree with she that , if we be to get the scale of finance that be require , particularly for the most vulnerable country at the front end , we need to look at innovative way of add to that finance . wind energy project have a standard compensation scheme for all local community , but solar project do not . industry will not act , so I urge my right hon . friend the Secretary of State to bring in a standard measure for all solar project to bring fairness to clean energy in our community . I thank my hon . friend for her question and for pursue this matter assiduously ; we have meet and discuss it , among other issue . I think both industry and community would appreciate great clarity about community benefit , and I look forward to discuss that with she far . one in four household in my constituency be now live in fuel poverty , compare with the national average of one in 10 . why do the Government continue to give million to gas and oil giant , which enjoy billion in bumper profit , while our constituent continue to be drag into poverty ? regrettably , the content of so many Opposition Members ' question this morning be absolutely not in line with reality . oil and gas production in the UK not only typically have low emission than the alternative of import , but support 200 , 000 job , all of which would be at risk if the Labour party come to power . to answer the hon . Gentleman ' s specific question , it be expect to raise £ 50 billion of tax over the next five year , all of which — include the safety of his constituent — would be at risk if Labour ever come to power . do my right hon . friend the Secretary of State and the Minister for Nuclear and Networks , my hon . friend the Member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) , agree that the very good location for two 470 MW Rolls - Royce small modular reactor be next to Sellafield , which will use some of the power and be a centre of nuclear excellence ? my hon . friend be another great champion for nuclear . it give I great pleasure to visit her constituency just a few week ago to see the great work be do at Sellafield . as we have set out , we aim to deploy up to 24 GW of nuclear energy by 2050 , and we remain open to all available technology that will deliver it . we be develop a new national policy statement that will provide the planning framework for new nuclear power beyond 2025 . we be consult on a propose way forward for determine how new nuclear development might be locate . include in Lancashire . this year , receipt from the emission trading scheme will reach a new peak of £ 6 . 2 billion . the effect of attack on energy - intensive industry be feel by worker in the aluminium and steel industry , and this week by worker at Grangemouth , where one of our few remain oil refinery be go to close . despite what the Minister say early , be it not a fact that , rather than help energy - intensive industry , net zero policy be destroy they and send they overseas ? the right hon . Gentleman will be aware that the EU have already legislate for a carbon border adjustment mechanism . follow our hosting of COP26 , 90 % of global wealth be cover by net zero pledge . at the beginning of that conference , the figure be just 30 % . the right hon . Gentleman may not see it , but this be the direction the world be go in , and if he want to future - proof british job he will get with the decarbonisation programme . oppose it be to oppose the interest of his constituent and the sustainability of their of their job . Melton CLP have of the big site in Hyndburn and Haslingden . the renewable obligation certificate be due to end in 2027 , and certainty be need on whether the scheme will be extend or another scheme will take its place . will the Minister give we some assurance as to what come next ? mindful of how loquacious I be , I simply say to my hon . friend that I will meet she to discuss the matter . over the space of a year , live in a cold home cost 21 of my constituent their life . one reason behind that tragic figure be that home in rural community be more difficult to insulate . on that basis , will the Minister urgently review the ECO4 and ECO + guideline to prioritise the hard property to insulate so that we cut bill and save life ? of course it be always a tragedy to hear such figure . I have regular meeting with the hon . Gentleman and I will have a meeting to discuss this issue far , because this Government be commit to support all vulnerable people , include all those who have disability and additional need . Speaker ' s Statement Nominations close at 12 noon for the election of the Chair of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee . one nomination have be receive . a ballot will therefore not be hold for this position . I congratulate Sir Robert Buckland on his election as Chair of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee . he will take up his post immediately and serve as Chair until the end of this Parliament . Ukraine ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Defence to make a statement on the war in Ukraine . since I last update the House on 24 October , the situation on the ground have remain largely unchanged . the armed force of Ukraine continue to make slow but steady progress in their fight to retake their country , while a small crossing of the Dnipro have be establish . russian force have make small advance in the northern axis of a pincer movement with which they be attempt to surround the town of Avdiivka . over the weekend , Russia launch what be likely the large wave of one - way attack drone strike on Ukraine of the war so far , ahead of another likely winter campaign of strike against ukrainian energy infrastructure . Ukraine neutralise most of the incoming weapon from the late assault , and international partner , include the UK , be work with Ukraine to far strengthen its defence . we will continue to support priority area for Ukraine in the come month , include air defence and harden critical national infrastructure site . our foundational supply of critical artillery ammunition continue . we also continue to develop Ukraine ' s maritime capability , help it to deny Russia sea control in the western Black sea . with Government help , a UK - base commercial insurance provider have develop an insurance facility for shipping use the Ukraine maritime corridor ; the facility charge premium in line with those under the Black sea grain initiative , which be crucial for re - attract commercial shipping . the UK have commit £ 4 . 6 billion of military support to date , as we continue to donate significant amount of ammunition and mat é riel from our own stock , as well as those purchase from across the globe . in addition , we have train more than 52 , 000 soldier since 2015 . our support for next year be be finalise , both internally within the Government and with our partner around the world , and will be announce shortly . I call the shadow Secretary of State . early on Saturday morning , siren sound across Kyiv for six hour . family take to shelter and fear spread across the city . that day , 75 drone be launch on Kyiv — the big strike on Ukraine since Putin ' s brutal illegal invasion begin , as the Minister say . with attention on the middle east , this be a wake - up call about Russia . Putin can still unleash fresh horror on Ukraine , still show contempt for international law , and still want to redraw sovereign boundary by force . six hundred and forty - two day on , Ukrainians be live with fear every day , fight every day , and die every day . the defence of the UK start in Ukraine , because if Putin prevail , he will not stop with Ukraine . I pay tribute to the UK troop who be train ukrainian force , fly out military aid and reinforce regional security through NATO . last month , the Defence Secretary say : " let ' s not forget about Ukraine . " so why do the autumn statement do just that ? there be no 2024 military funding or action plan for Ukraine . at the very time when Ukraine need confidence that it have strong , continue support from ally , the Prime Minister be step back . UK leadership on Ukraine be flag : this year ' s £ 2 . 3 billion of UK military funding run out in March , while this month Germany announce € 8 billion of military aid for next year . when will the Defence Secretary himself make a statement on Ukraine ? when will Ministers announce the next delivery of UK weapon ? when will the Government pledge funding for fresh military aid and publish a 2024 action plan for the military , economic and diplomatic support that Ukraine need ? when will the Prime Minister demonstrate by his decision and action that Britain will stand with Ukraine for as long as it take to win ? I do not think there be any doubt in Kyiv — in fact , I know there be no doubt — about the UK ' s continued support , and indeed its leadership on gift within the international community . while I appreciate that the right hon . Gentleman be keen to make a political point , I think that deep down he know that too , because he speak to the Ukrainians . I know , as he do , that they continue to regard the UK as the standard bearer globally for encourage other to donate ever more and , crucially , to donate weapon system with ever more complexity . I have no doubt — as I think , deep down , the right hon . Gentleman have no doubt — that the ukrainian Government maintain their confidence in we as one of their key ally , if not their key ally , and that the UK ' s leadership be certainly not flag . the right hon . Gentleman ask about the announcement of weapon . the reality be that we be give a very broad range of weapon . while he might think it be militarily sound to focus on always give something new , just be resilient in our ability to keep give what we be give be every bit as important to the operational planning that the ukrainian armed force need to do . this be not a set of gimmick — a set of announcement . this be about the resourcing of a military operational plan that UK military operational planner be key in develop with the Ukrainians . I be entirely comfortable that across a whole range of weapon system , the pipeline that we now have in place to deliver every month , not only from our own stockpile and manufacturing capacity but from those that we can access globally , be a reliable , dependable part of the ukrainian plan . as for the plan for next year , I completely accept that the right hon . Gentleman be right to say that a number could have be give in the autumn statement , but surely it be more important to give a number that reflect the discussion that the chairman of the joint chief , the Chief of the Defence Staff and General Zaluzhny have have , and those that senior US , UK and ukrainian politician have have , in order to understand the ukrainian ambition for their operation next year , so that we can resource that properly . all the way through , what the UK have do well than anyone else in the world be understand what the Ukrainians want to do next and get there first in deliver that capability , in so do embolden other to follow . as soon as the plan for next year be confirm , I be certain that the amount that it will cost will be announce to Parliament and the plan firm up , so that the right hon . Gentleman will be satisfied . that be an intriguing rationale for the fact that we give £ 2 . 3 billion for the first year of the war and £ 2 . 3 billion for the second year of the war . can the Minister convey to his colleague in Government that member on both side of the House would be dismay if we give less than £ 2 . 3 billion for the year ahead ? in his discussion with the Chancellor , might the Defence Secretary remind he that , when he stand for the leadership of the conservative party , he recommend not 2 % but 4 % of gdp to be spend on defence ? I certainly can . I call the SNP spokesperson . at the weekend , the Ukrainian Government and people commemorate the holodomor — the genocide inspire by the Government of Joseph Stalin . during those celebration , as the Minister rightly say , the Russian Federation launch its large air attack on Kyiv to date , which include 75 Iranian - make shahed towards the capital . part of the financing of the iranian regime come from the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps . back in January , Ministers intimate to the House and to Members that they be consider proscribe the revolutionary guard , a financer of the iranian regime that be feed the Russian Federation ' s military might . when will the Minister ' s Government stop consider and start proscribe it ? these be not conversation to which I be directly privy , so I be loth to offer detail that I do not have . suffice it to say that the debate be more nuanced than the hon . Gentleman imply in his question , but I suspect he know that . when we proscribe an organisation such as the IRGC , which be so integral to the iranian state , we can make it quite hard to have any sort of communication with the iranian state , but those be matter for colleague in the Foreign Office . I will bring his question to their attention , and encourage they to write to he or seek to respond in some other way . I very much welcome my right hon . friend ' s comment about insurance for shipping in the Black sea to encourage grain export . can I ask he if the british Government intend to carry on do everything they can to make sure that those export happen ? he will be aware that Lebanon rely on those grain export , and with the current situation in that region , we must ensure that starvation do not become another factor in an already exceptionally tense situation . there be lot in my right hon . friend ' s question — on all of which he be entirely right . first , many country around the world be dependent on grain export from Ukraine . it be a source of constant frustration to I and Government colleague who go overseas on diplomatic mission to find that the Russians try to claim that somehow Ukraine be use food as a weapon of war , when it be they who be seek to limit those crucial export . secondly , the more that Ukraine be able to export , the more that the ukrainian economy survive and , potentially , grow . one consequence of the insurance initiative , alongside the military success or the naval success that the Ukrainians have have in the western Black sea , be that ship from Odesa be grow , which be encouraging . it be a sign that the new front in the Black sea be succeed not only militarily but economically . in August 2022 , the Defence Secretary ' s predecessor , the right hon . member for Wyre and Preston North ( Mr Wallace ) , promise a 2023 action plan for Ukraine , but that be still nowhere to be see with just over a month leave in 2023 . surely , the UK must provide our friend in Ukraine with the long - term certainty of UK military support to repel Russia ' s illegal invasion , which be so important to ukrainian friend and family in Feltham and Heston and across the country . will the Minister explain why this action plan have not be publish , and when there will be one for 2024 ? the former Defence Secretary be a great man . the Opposition Front - Bench team have rightly seek to hold the Government to account for his commitment to an action plan , but I would reflect personally , in a rare moment of slight disagreement with he , that the masterplan for Ukraine next year be the Ukrainians ' plan for next year , and we , as their key lead supporter , have a duty to resource their plan . understand what that plan be and resource it , both through straight cash in - year as well as commitment over three to five year thereafter , be all thing we undoubtedly need to do ; I think there be complete agreement in the House on that . I understand the disappointment that the commitment be not make in the autumn statement , but for the UK to publish Ukraine ' s plan would clearly be the wrong way of do thing ; we need to understand what Ukraine ' s plan be and then announce how we will resource it , and we will do so . Ukraine be hold firm against one of the big military in the world and it still rightly refuse to see the mass loss of ukrainian life . will my right hon . friend reassure I on the follow two point ? first , as there be report that we be already see a reduction in artillery delivery to Ukraine , be enough get through ? secondly , follow Medvedev ' s threat to Poland , what be we do to make sure our ally , such as Canada , meet their 2 % of GDP commitment to NATO , as we need they to stay in the fight and protect that eastern flank ? on the first point , " enough " be what there be . part of military planning be to moderate consumption level to meet the scale of delivery . Ukraine ' s military planning must reflect manufacturing capacity and stockpile across the donor community . enough be get through , but we will not find a single ukrainian general who would not want 10 time that amount if it be available . on the second point , my hon . friend be absolutely right : we must ensure that the donor community remain foursquare behind Ukraine . in all probability the plan for next year will need to be more around consolidation than the plan for this year , but it be very important that those in the donor community see whatever consolidation be necessary as the right military , strategic judgment — and still worthy of maintain donor support — rather than peel away because it do not feel as sensational as plan in previous year . the previous Defence Secretary the right hon . member for Wyre and Preston North ( Mr Wallace ) be well think of for the support he demonstrate for Ukraine , and in September last year he tell the House that the Government have write " letter of comfort " to industry outline the Government ' s intention to place order with manufacturer . in last year ' s autumn statement the Treasury announce £ 560 million for the replacement of the UK stockpile , to be fund from the Treasury reserve rather than the MOD procurement budget . where do the Minister think industry , Ukrainians and british service personnel should look for comfort give the silence in the autumn statement on the subject of continued UK support for Ukraine ? I suspect the first line of the hon . Gentleman ' s question would make it into the leaflet of my right hon . friend the Member for Wyre and Preston North ( Mr Wallace ) if he be stand again as that be rare , but much deserve , praise . I be not sure I understand the rest of the hon . Gentleman ' s question . the Ukrainians know what they be get this year and they have see time and again the UK seek to lead the world and catalyse donation . we have be the first to go through every capability threshold ; they know that and they continue to know that . UK service personnel will take comfort from the fact that in the autumn statement the Chancellor promise to maintain the 2 % commitment — we be actually comfortably exceed that — and that the complete modernisation and recapitalisation of the fight echelon across all three service be well under way , with investment , too , in sort out all the strategic enabler that bring credibility to our warfighting force . I do not see where any further comfort be need , either on the ukrainian side or for the man and woman of the UK armed force . in fact , it be quite the reverse ; I think they know exactly what the Government be do . will the Minister assure the House that political resolve in NATO will remain as strong as ever in the event that this campaign become endure , protracted and attritional ? will he also assure the House about what be be do to ensure that all NATO country step up and pay their 2 % ? NATO ' s resolve be clear but its part in this be to deter escalation beyond Ukraine , whereas the donor community that have form around Ukraine be a rather separate entity that extend beyond NATO ' s border ; that be an important distinction . my hon . friend be absolutely right that as we prepare for a summit in Washington at which our american colleague will want to see progress in meet the NATO commitment , all NATO country that be not meet the 2 % commitment will perhaps want to consider their spending plan before get on the plane to Washington . how be it possible that our NATO ally Turkey have see a more than threefold increase in export to Russia this year of good vital for Putin ' s war machine , and what be the Minister and our NATO ally go to do about that ? I be not familiar with that detail and will have to write to the right hon . gentleman on it . you , Mr Speaker , and the Minister will know that one strength that the Government and people of Ukraine have get from this place , both with their President ' s two visit and the visit of member of Parliament , be the cross - party consensus on UK support for Ukraine . do the Minister agree that it be concern — unless I have get this wrong — that today the shadow Secretary of State the right hon . member for Wentworth and Dearne ( John Healey ) , perhaps for the first time , slip into party political fighting over this ? I have a great deal of respect for the right hon . Gentleman and hope that will not be the case as we get near to the election because of the strength offer by this place through the cross - party consensus for support for the ukrainian effort against Russia ' s illegal invasion . the right hon . Gentleman the shadow Defence Secretary have a job to do and it have be a feature and a great strength of the UK response that it have be largely non - partisan . I think the right hon . Gentleman see an opportunity through the omission in the autumn statement , but I hope in my initial answer I be able to explain to he why understand the ukrainian plan must come first and announce what the UK will do to support that plan necessarily come second . there be a benefit to have these regular session , and there be of course the opportunity for more regular ministerial statement rather than just urgent question ; I encourage the Minister to think about that in the future . he will remember that on the last occasion I raise the issue of lethargy and concern that event in the middle east could be a distraction from support for Ukraine , and I question some of the political dynamic evident in the US system . on this occasion I want to invert that question and ask if he have assess the impact of the ongoing issue in the middle east and their consequence for country such as Iran and their support for Russia , and whether that might present an opportunity for Ukraine . I must be careful not to stray into intelligence matter but my sense be that it would be overoptimistic to think that raise tension in the middle east might lead to a reduction in iranian support for Russia ; I think that support be now well embed . on the other side of the formula , as the hon . Gentleman imply in the first part of his question there be of course a concern that the wide donor community might be distract by what be go on in the middle east , and it be important to take moment like this to reassure Ukrainians and remind friend and partner around the world that we must remain steadfast in our support of Ukraine even while we all work together to deter escalation in the middle east . effective military support to Ukraine be more than just about provide weapon ; it be also about stop Russia produce and get its own weapon . the right hon . member for Exeter ( Mr Bradshaw ) ask about this in relation to Turkey but I would broaden the question : be the Minister aware of western technology be source by Russia and do he think we be do enough to stop it ? I be certainly aware that there be an alarming level of content from the west in a number of russian system that be compromise in the early part of the war . that lead to two further point . first , there be the reassurance that if we be constrain our supply chain to Russia — which the sanction regime largely be , albeit not completely and we need to work on that — its capacity to develop complex weapon be diminish . secondly , that also suggest that russian industry do not have the ability to do these thing itself . it do seem now as if this war will be much long than we have all hope . in that context , political leadership will change . while it be important that NATO maintain its present position , NATO leadership may change over time . what step can be take , include by our Ministry of Defence , to make the case across the world that the defence of Ukraine be in the global interest , not simply the ukrainian national interest ? the UK have be make that case from the outset . the stated aim of the UK Government have be that Russia must fail in Ukraine and be see to fail . that be first because that be the right moral outcome for Ukraine — it deserve to restore its territory and live as a free sovereign country — and secondly because if Putin do not fail in Ukraine , he will be embolden to go again and again . euro - atlantic security over the next 30 to 50 year would be profoundly affect as a consequence . with much of the medium and world now focus on the ongoing conflict in the middle east , do my right hon . friend agree that we must not lose sight of the ongoing suffering of Ukrainians at home and on the battlefield ? I absolutely agree . we certainly be not allow it to become a zero - sum thing where we focus only on the middle east or on Ukraine . we can do both , and the western Balkans and everywhere else where the UK ' s interest be challenge . it be clear that despite heroic effort by the ukrainian people , at good a military stalemate will be achieve . what be the Minister ' s estimate of the civilian and military casualty on both side of this conflict to date ? what be the prospect of negotiation to bring the bloodletting to an end ? I will need to write to the hon . gentleman with estimate on both side . the number I have in my mind on the russian side be 320 , 000 dead and wound , but clearly there will be ukrainian casualty as well , and those be number be military , not civilian . I will do my good to respond on that . I be not sure that I accept the hon . Gentleman ' s assessment that there be an inevitability to stalemate . the effort require to maintain the current apparent stalemate on land — in the Black sea , thing be still quite dynamic — be incredible . it be not an inevitable consequence , but the consequence of an extraordinary amount of effort on both side . if one side lose the strategic depth or patience to maintain that effort , it be perfectly possible that a very different outcome will be achieve one way or the other . that be why it be important we be completely committed to maintain the current level of effort . as the question from the hon . member for Rochdale ( Tony Lloyd ) point to , we continue to make that case to friend and partner around the world , so that the donor community remain strong , because there be nothing inevitable about the outcome of this war . Russia ' s financing of this illegal conflict be derive from international trade , particularly the export of oil . I have highlight how Russia be circumvent the unprecedented sanction that have be introduce . do my right hon . friend agree that in this dynamic situation we need to be constantly alive to how international trade be make , so that we can prevent and block the financing of this conflict ? will he agree to work with international partner in reassess what far need to be do ? absolutely . there be a military line of endeavour , but so too there be a diplomatic and economic one . the Minister for Europe — the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Aldershot ( Leo Docherty ) — be on the Front Bench to hear my right hon . friend ' s question . my right hon . friend be absolutely right to note the importance of advance on all front with equal vigour . the renew attack on Kyiv at the weekend and the threat to power plant remind we how widespread the impact of the war be on Ukraine . could the Minister update we on what recent talk he or ministerial colleague have have with Ukrainian Ministers about recovery and reconstruction ? can he give detail of what the UK be do to help now ? the Prime Minister and other Ministers , include the Defence Secretary — this mostly sit in other Departments — meet the Ukrainians all the time to discuss exactly that issue . indeed , the new Foreign Secretary be in Kyiv only last week . it be hugely important that alongside Ukraine ' s military resilience , its economy and democracy remain equally resilient and be not strangle out of existence , which would undermine the existence of the state of Ukraine just as much as any military failure . in answer the previous question , I note that it be important that we advance on all front , that we support Ukraine militarily , and that we help Ukraine to maintain resilience and even growth within its economy . it be important globally that a key part of that economy — the export of grain — flow as freely as possible , hence the amount of effort we be put into the western Black sea . I thank my right hon . friend for the work that he continue to do . he mention the number of ukrainian military recruit we have be able to help with training in the UK . can he say any more about that training ? how many recruit will we be able to assist in the come month ? our aim be to maintain that pace . for colleague who have have the opportunity to visit , I know it be regard as one of the moment of a lifetime to see the determination in the eye of those man who be train to go to war . to train for five or six week in the absolute certainty that active combat wait immediately at the other end of that training pipeline focus the mind in an extraordinary way . I pay tribute to they for their courage and heroism in volunteer to undergo the training , but also to the brilliance of the UK and other nation ' armed force that be here in this country deliver that training all day , every week of every month . I have always love the opportunity to put my support for Ukraine and Ukrainians on the record . I appreciate that the Minister be not the correct Minister for this point , but I can see that the Immigration Minister have arrive for the next urgent question . we have be get a lot of casework about Ukrainians find it difficult to get their biometric residence permit process in any meaningful time , include one who have be wait since July . can the Minister help with make representation to the Home Office to ensure that people can get those permit in swift time , so that they can rebuild their life ? I make those representation now . I welcome the continue work that my right hon . friend and the whole Government do to support our friend in Ukraine . may I return to the question of grain export ? just a couple of day ago at a food security summit , President Zelensky be clear that he believe air defence be the missing link to secure those export . do my right hon . friend share that assessment ? if he do , how can we help make those air defence a reality ? air defence have be an important part of the ukrainian response to Russia ' s belligerence from the very beginning . air defence be necessary to protect critical national infrastructure , the ukrainian frontline and port and other key economic infrastructure , as well as the sea lane through which ship travel . the reality be that we be do our good to source as much air defence globally as we can , and we will continue to do so . a few of we who be member of the all - party parliamentary group on the Holy See visit the ukrainian Catholic cathedral in Mayfair this morning and visit the fantastic welcome centre that have provide so much support to Ukrainians who have come here seek refuge and safety . one of the key message we hear — I have hear this from constituent , too — be about the uncertainty they be face as the visa programme extend by the UK Government be start to come to an end . can the Minister assure we that colleague be work across Government to provide Ukrainians with the certainty they desperately need that they will continue to be welcome here in the United Kingdom and will not have to pay for the privilege of extend their visa ? the Home Office will be seize of the need to provide as much certainty as it can . indeed , on Friday I have the pleasure of visit the welcome hub in my constituency and meet eight ukrainian family who be ask I the same question . as I explain to they — I share this with the House now — while I completely understand why they individually want as much certainty as possible , it be also important that Putin do not get to see all these country across Europe that be host so many million of Ukrainians between they offer they an opportunity to stay permanently . the danger be that we would end up with Ukraine lose million of its good people to economy around Europe , when ultimately we hope they will be able to go home to a free , sovereign Ukraine . I thank the Minister very much for his determination and leadership , which we all endorse . Ukraine have report territorial advance of 3 km to 8 km in the Donetsk region , which have be hard fight — the cost have be in life and injury — but the determination of Ukrainians to retake their land from Russia be as strong as ever . what can the Minister do to allocate more high - grade military equipment to strike Russia hard in its backyard ? the UK be do a lot — indeed , it be do more than most — and we have be the first to go through every capability threshold . although unfortunately it can not yet be discuss openly in public or even in the House , the UK have also be able to use our ability to support the Ukrainians in develop their own complex weapon . that , when the time come , will be one of the great story , but it be of course something that we be do all the time . Net Migration Figures ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Home Secretary to make a statement on the publication of net migration figure . the most recent publish datum from the Office for National Statistics estimate that net migration in the year to June 2023 be at 672 , 000 . that place untold pressure on housing supply and public service and make successful integration virtually impossible . as the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary have repeatedly make clear , it be far too high . the Government remain committed to reduce level of legal migration , in line with the manifesto commitment on which every single Conservative MP stand in 2019 and the express wish of the british public as articulate at every single general election in the last 30 year . early this year , we take action to tackle an unforeseen and substantial rise in the number of student bring dependant into the UK to roughly 150 , 000 . that mean that , begin with course start in January , student on teach postgraduate course will no long have the ability to bring dependant ; only student on designate postgraduate research programme will be able to bring dependant . that will have a tangible effect on net migration . it be crystal clear that we need to reduce the number significantly by bring forward further measure to control and reduce the number of people come here , and separately to stop the abuse and exploitation of our visa system by company and individual . so far this year , we have initiate a significant number of investigation into sector such as care company suspect of breach immigration rule . we be actively work across Government on further substantive measure and will announce detail to the House as soon as possible . where be the Home Secretary , and what on earth be go on ? the medium be brief that he be go to make a statement on net migration yesterday or today , but we have have nothing , and he be nowhere . the Immigration Minister have be everywhere , madly brief all his idea , but who speak for the Government ? net migration figure be now three time their level at the 2019 general election , when the Conservatives promise to reduce they . that include a 65 % increase in work migration this year , which reflect a complete failure by the Conservatives on both the economy and immigration . the Immigration Minister be complain today — he will be furious when he discover who have be in charge of the immigration system for the last 13 year . net migration should come down . immigration be important for Britain and always will be , but the system need to be properly control and manage so that it be fair , effective and properly link to the economy . net migration for work have treble since 2019 because of the Government ' s failure on skill and training , their failure to tackle record level of long - term sickness and people on waiting list , and their failure to make the system work . social care visa have go from 3 , 000 a year to more than 100 , 000 a year , yet this spring Ministers halve the programme for recruit care worker here . health visa be up , yet minister cut training place last autumn . visa for engineer be up while engineering apprenticeship completion in the UK have halve . will the Government immediately agree to labour ' s plan to get rid of the unfair wage discount that mean employer can pay overseas recruit 20 % less than the go rate , and which prevent training and fair pay in the UK ? will the Government immediately ask the Migration Advisory Committee to review salary threshold for skilled worker in shortage occupation , which have not keep up , and where the MAC have warn repeatedly about low - pay exploitation ? will the Minister link the point - base system to training and employment standard in the UK and have a proper plan for the economy and the immigration system ? the Government have no serious plan ; they be just ramp up the rhetoric . they have no plan for the economy , no plan for the immigration system and no plan for the country . Britain deserve well than this . I listen to the right hon . Lady for five minute or so and detect absolutely no trace of a plan from she — order . I be worried , because I can only allow two minute . please do not go tell everybody that I have allow five minute . honestly , it be only two minute . I will keep that as a secret , Mr Speaker . the only policy that the right hon . Lady articulate be something that be barely use and would have a de minimis effect on net migration , but that should come as no surprise to any of we . she have spend her entire political career campaigning for uncontrolled migration . she have campaign for freedom of movement — she back a Leader of the Opposition who campaign for freedom of movement . she have always support and lobby and campaign for unfettered access to the United Kingdom . she say that there be chaos on the Government side of the House , but all we hear from she be rhetoric and posturing . it would be laughable if it be not so serious . every single Conservative Member of Parliament campaign on a manifesto commitment to bring down net migration . I do not see that in the Labour party ' s manifesto at the last election . although she may be do what she be because she be read the poll or want to posture , we be do it out of deep political conviction . we believe that the number of people come into this country be too high , that it place unbearable pressure on our public service and on housing , and that it be make it impossible to integrate people into this country and harm community cohesion and national unity . it be also a moral failure , because it be leave people on welfare and enable company all too often to reach for the easy lever of foreign labour . for all those reason , we be determined to tackle this issue . we understand the concern of the british public , and I be here to say that we share they and will bring forward a serious package of fundamental reform to address the issue once and for all . I congratulate the shadow Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford ( Yvette Cooper ) , as it be clear from the two idea she lay out that she have read the 12 point in the New Conservatives ' immigration plan . she be more than willing to copy and paste , just as the shadow Chancellor would , have she have the opportunity . my right hon . friend have my full support , although I be sure that will not help he with those in no . 10 . I be deeply concerned and confused . at the weekend , the Prime Minister say that migration be " too high " and need to " come down to more sustainable level " . that be the full - fat option , yesterday , I get the skim option , with the Prime Minister boast about our " competitive " visa regime . be the Cabinet member who sit with my right hon . friend full - fat , semi - skim or skim ? I support my hon . friend in his lobbying and campaign for the Government to take this issue seriously . he speak for million of people across the country who see the level of net migration as far too high . of course , it be right that we want the UK to be a country that be open to the very good and the bright , and that be why we have take action in create visa route such as the global talent one that the Prime Minister be promote at the investment summit this week , but we must reduce net migration . that mean take difficult choice and make a tangible difference in the month ahead . the public be sick of talk . they want action , and they want we to bring forward a clear plan . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . I wish to take a different approach from the Westminster party to the migration statistic . on behalf of the SNP , I thank those people who have come to make their home here and to contribute to our university , public service and health and care sector , and who have make our society and our economy all the rich for their presence . have the Government think this through ? who will carry out the vital task of those who have come to our shore if they pull up the drawbridge and send people away ? the CBI have say that two third of UK business have be hit by labour shortage in the last year . pressure on service be help , not hinder , by those people come here . those pressure on service be a result of more than 10 year of austerity from the Conservatives . under - investment in those service be the fault not of immigrant but of this Government . interestingly , those who have come on small boat represent only 3 % of the total , which be the flimsy basis on which the Minister and his colleague want to disapply human right law , pull we out of the european convention on human right and renege on our international commitment . it be clear that Scotland have different need and attitude towards migration . accord to Migration Policy Scotland , six in 10 scot say that immigration have a positive impact . in Scotland we need to deal with the challenge and the pressure of emigration over many decade . can we finally have an immigration policy that meet Scotland ' s need ? if the Government will not devolve that , Scotland will need independence more urgently than ever before . fortunately , immigration be a reserved matter , and we do not intend to leave it in the hand of the hon . Lady and her colleague in the SNP Government . as she know with respect to illegal migration and asylum seeker , the fine word that she say here in the Chamber be not match by the action of the SNP Scottish Government . for example , in June there be few asylum seeker in the entire city of Edinburgh than in a single hotel in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent North ( Jonathan Gullis ) . her humanitarian nimbyism really stick in the throat . on legal migration , here be the difference between we : we see that there be a reason for people to come to the UK , but we also see million of people on welfare or economically inactive , and we care about those people get back into the workplace . we do not want company simply to reach for the easy lever of foreign labour . that be not a route to sustainable prosperity and productivity . that be why my right hon . friend the Work and Pensions Secretary and the Chancellor set out major measure last week . that be our vision for this country — one that genuinely drive up gdp per capita so that we can support and protect all our citizen . the figure be unsustainably high , but to put they in context , they also include 200 , 000 Ukrainians and 150 , 000 Hong Kong citizen . I wonder if those be include in the " something must be do - ism " from the opposition . can my right hon . friend explain why 135 , 000 visa be grant to dependant last year , up from 19 , 000 just three year ago , and around 100 , 000 visa be grant to chinese student , up 87 % over the past 10 year ? he mention care worker scandal and the 78 , 000 visa to care worker . be it true that some visa have be grant to care worker to work in care home that do not exist ? my hon . friend raise a number of issue , all of which be worthy of consideration and which the Home Office be work through at present . it be certainly true that a very substantial number of dependant have come to the UK alongside visa holder , whether student , care worker or skilled worker . it be a choice for the country whether we want to continue to pursue that . there be a strong argument that it be unsustainable for the country to continue to take so many dependant , who put pressure on housing , public service , school place and so on . we could base our visa system on different model to stop so many dependant come into the country . we have see a very substantial number of care worker visa issue , and those care worker bring dependant with they on almost a one - for - one basis . as my hon . friend know , we be actively consider that . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . although today we be discuss one single set of net migration figure , we know that net migration have hugely vary impact in region and community . we also know that the most skilled migrant flow disproportionately towards London and the south - east . have the Minister give any thought to develop a more regionalised approach to immigration , to ensure that community across the country benefit evenly and fairly from it ? in recent year we have give thought to the concept of create a more regional system , but it be difficult to create in practice — I would welcome idea from the right hon . Lady ' s Committee . as a general rule , we have maintain one single United Kingdom immigration system , but there be a number of visa category that reflect particular issue face different part of the country . those include the seasonal agricultural worker scheme , which be focus on rural England , and global talent , which increasingly take individual with a science or technology background and will impact those part of the country with a science cluster . the system be able to support different sector and need of part of the country . do the Minister recognise that many myth about immigration be perpetuate by the unholy alliance of greedy globalist corporate business and guilt - ride bourgeois liberal ? one of they be that immigrant bring only economic benefit and no cost . in practice , dependant of the kind he describe bring more economic cost than benefit , so will the Minister immediately introduce measure to restrict the number of dependant who can come here ? in do so , will he recognise that we be rely on he to sort this out , because we know that he share our concern that it be time for british worker for british job ? my right hon . friend and I be at one on this issue . he be right to say that there be two challenge : the sheer number of people come in , and the type of people come into our country . it be right that we make careful judgment about who will benefit our citizen and who will add to our country ' s economy and skill base , and not simply allow very large number of people with low or , at good , mid skill . they be unlikely to add to our economy and , in many case , will be net cost to the Exchequer . those be the choice that we need to make to establish a more discerning migration system . I have already answer the dependant question , and we be carefully consider it . the Government have a commitment in 2019 to deal with immigration . I have a simple question : why have it take four year for they to recognise that they need a plan ? social care rely on worker from abroad , because there be no strategy in place for workforce , training or funding . so before the Minister agree to increase the salary at which people can come from abroad to work as social care worker , will he agree to do a full impact assessment on what that would mean for the social care sector ? what measure will be put in place to provide well salary and training for UK resident to take those job ? first , I would say politely to the hon . Gentleman that it be only because we leave the European Union that we have the lever at our disposal to control net migration . it be crucial that we use those lever to deliver on the promise of Brexit . with respect to social care , I dispute the fact that there be not a plan ; there be a workforce plan for the NHS and social care . it be essential that we take a rounded judgment about the individual who come to the country to work in social care . of course there be vacancy to fill , but enable an individual to come with their dependant will cost the british taxpayer a great deal . we must ensure that we be come to the right judgment about what be in the good interest of the UK . those be the conversation that we be have across Government . I hope we will be able to bring forward proposal very soon . People in Ashfield have have enough of this . there be 7 , 000 people on the council house waiting list . People be struggle to get a GP or dental appointment and be struggle to get school place . be it not about time that we have a cap on migration and put a clear divide between we and that lot over there ? my hon . friend speak for my constituent as well as his — he represent a constituency near mine — in say that the british public want we to get on with the job and bring down the number come into the country . the Prime Minister , the Home Secretary and I be commit to bring forward a set of fundamental reform that I hope will achieve the objective that my hon . friend set out . there be definitely strong argument for use cap , whether in general or on specific visa , but those be conversation we need to conclude within Government . instead of sit in Whitehall and try to persuade people that this be some sort of threat to they , why do the Minister not get out and talk to the business in community such as mine that be cripple by labour shortage ? he first promise I a meeting to talk about the issue of visa for deck hand in the fishing industry . he be obviously scared — because he have not meet I yet — to sit across the table from people like my constituent , a skipper of a crab boat in Orkney , who have have to sell one of his two boat because he can not get the crew to work on it . that be the reality of the Minister ' s failure . the right hon . Gentleman obviously miss our announcement early in the year where we add various fishing occupation to the shortage occupation list . that be as a result of a very helpful meeting I have with other colleague from across the House , which he do not come to . the Minister will know that some of we have be bang on about this ever since he take office , say that we should increase the level of work visa to average UK earning . we have not do that because minister be worried that the care home sector will fall over , but if we do insist on people come to this country earn a proper wage , would there not be a sort of virtuous circle ? the care home sector would have to pay proper wage — after all , what be more important than look after our elderly population ? — and we could get more people off benefit because there would be decent job for they to go to . it be ridiculous that the care home sector be hand out visa like sweetie and employ people , for starvation wage of £ 20 , 000 a year , from all over the world . so , more power to the Minister ' s elbow . we know he be on the right side . he just have to persuade the Prime Minister now . I be grateful to my right hon . friend and agree with everything he say . it be absolutely critical that we get a handle on this issue . the point he make about social care be entirely valid . it be not sensible that our social care sector be reliant on import foreign labour from overseas , include their dependant who then have to be house , have access to public service and be support on the NHS . we need to take a more sensible , sustainable attitude to how we pay and look after people in such an important career . the increase in net migration have be fuel by an increase in health and care visa last year of around 150 % . I want to bring the Minister back to the central question . I be sure he share labour ' s ambition to upskill the workforce here , but the central question be why the funding for the new social care workforce pathway be halve early this year . he will know that the shortage of social care worker be contribute to bed - block in our NHS . that be the last thing we need ahead of another potential winter crisis . as I say in answer to an early question , we have set out a social care plan . the Chancellor and the Health Secretary set out a long - term plan for the NHS workforce more generally . it be absolutely right that we train more people in this country to be nurse and doctor than we have in the recent past . that be why , for example , the Health Secretary set out a plan for further medical school in a number of part of the country , include in place where there have be shortage . that be the way forward . it be not a sustainable future for the NHS or social care to recruit in other part of the world . even those place be now encounter shortage . there be a highly competitive international market for doctor and nurse , so the future of our NHS have to be by persuade more of our own young people to go into those sector and train people properly here . do the Minister agree that the people of this country will not be fool by the shallow , opportunistic tough talk come from Labour member ? they be the Members for remain , which would have mean completely open border . they be the party of re - join , which would again mean completely open border , include to those people who have since migrate into european country and who would then be completely free to come to the UK . do he agree that , as my hon . friend the Member for Ashfield ( Lee Anderson ) say , it be time for a cap on net migration ? I do not think anyone listen to the debate will be fool by the damascene conversion of the right hon . member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford ( Yvette Cooper ) and her colleague to control migration , when they have spend their entire life campaign for completely the opposite . one of the few pledge that the Leader of the opposition launch his campaign on just a few year ago be freedom of movement . we have commit to control migration . we share a deep conviction that we have to get the number down . I be hopeful and confident that the package the Prime Minister and Home Secretary will bring forward very soon will do just that . international student contribute £ 42 billion annually to the UK . they be vital to the economy of town and city across the country . Most return home after their course . those who do not be grant a visa for further study or a skilled worker visa , because we want they in the country . student be not migrant . the public do not consider they to be migrant . be it not time we take they out of the net migration number and bring our position into line with our competitor , such as the United States , whose Department of Homeland Security , as the arm of Government responsible for migration policy , do not count student in its number ? I do not think fiddle the figure be the answer to this challenge . the public want to see we deliver actual result and bring down the number . of course , university and foreign student play an important part in the academic , cultural and economic life of the country , but it be also critical that university be in the education business , not the migration business . I be afraid that we have see a number of university — perfectly legally but nonetheless abuse the visa system — promote short course to individual whose primary interest be in use they as a backdoor to a life in the United Kingdom , invariably with their dependant . that be one of the reason why we be introduce the measure to end the ability of student on short - teach course to bring in dependant . university need to look to a different long - term business model , and not just rely on people come in to do short course , often of low academic value , where their main motivation be a life in the UK , not a first - rate education . I be glad to hear the Minister , on behalf of the Government , recognise that the legal migration figure be far too high . I be glad he recognise that migrant bring not just economic benefit , but potentially economic cost and pressure on public service and community . will he confirm whether his plan will be publish and bring to the House before Christmas , and will it include a raise in salary threshold and an increase in the minimum salary require to bring in dependant ? my plan would have be bring to the House before last Christmas if I could have do that , but let we hope we can bring forward a substantive package of reform very quickly . I be work intensively with the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary . we be at one on this issue . I hope my hon . friend will not be disappoint . the main driver of the ONS net migration figure be healthcare professional . accord to the Royal College of Nursing , 53 % of nurse register to practise in October have be train internationally . the only in - patient ward at Ysbyty Tywyn Hospital have be close since April because it can not get staff . high visa fee be already a red tape barrier to fill vacancy . in claim credit for crack down on visa , will the Minister also take responsibility for shut down hospital ward ? I think the right hon . Lady be rather overdo the hyperbole . we be on course to meet our manifesto commitment to increase the number of nurse here in the UK . a significant proportion of those have come from overseas , but the sustainable answer to the problem of recruiting nurse , in the right hon . Lady ' s constituency and everywhere else , be to train more of they in the UK , rather than reach out to develop country and seek to bring their nurse here . if the Government ever decide that it be not in the country ' s security interest for large number of communist chinese student to be educate in our university , would they be able to do anything about it ? we do control the lever of our immigration system , so we have the ability to make determination on individual who come from different country around the world . we do not today operate a system that discriminate between nationality , although we do have different level of security vet on a case - by - case basis , which be particularly important in the case of certain nationality . however , my right hon . friend make an important point . serco ' s half - year profit for 2023 be £ 148 million , while many asylum seeker be live in unsafe and insanitary condition . can the Minister explain why the Home Office refuse to disclose the amount that provider be allow to make before part of that share be return to the Home Office ? do he agree that the money should go to local authority , to enable they to provide service in their own area , and do he also agree that we need to lift the ban on unemployment right ? I have make an open offer to local authority that want to provide asylum accommodation . none have come forward so far , but if the hon . Lady ' s local authority want to provide such accommodation , I would be more than willing to consider that . the sustainable answer to reduce the reliance on hotel and other form of accommodation be to stop the boat , but the hon . Lady have vote consistently against every measure that the Government have take to do so . I would strongly encourage she , for example , when we introduce the emergency legislation on Rwanda , to support it with vim and vigour . one of the principal argument against reduce the number of care worker visa be the shortage of worker in the care sector , and of course there be a shortage . however , in the 12 month to July , 70 , 000 people be recruit from abroad for care role , while the number of vacancy in the sector drop by just 11 , 000 . be it not the case that the principal impact of the care worker visa scheme be the displacing of british worker from the system ? it be not have an overall impact on the size of the workforce . be it not also the case that until we turn off the tap to stem the arrival of cheap labour from abroad , employer will not improve pay and condition here ? as ever , my hon . friend make a number of important point . the health and social care visa have not work as well as even its proponent would have wish . not only have far more individual come to the UK , include a significantly high number of dependant than be envisage , but , as she say , there have be a displacement effect whereby british worker have leave the care sector to be replace by foreign worker . the key necessity in care , as in other sector , be to encourage the sector to pay well , improve condition and improve productivity and skill , so that british worker can put themselves on a sustainable footing . the Minister be a gifted orator at the Dispatch Box but , as always , his fine word butter no parsnip . we have hear it all before from his predecessor , every one of whom have say that the Government will reduce net migration . after 13 year of broken promise , when the Minister say that he have a cunning plan to reduce it — undisclose at the moment — why should the public believe he ? we be work intensively across Government to fine - tune our plan , and I hope we will be in a position to set it out very soon . I know that the hon . Gentleman share my determination to tackle this issue . it be critical for his constituent and mine that we bring down net migration and make use of the lever that we now have at our disposal , and that we do not betray those who vote for Brexit and want to give we those lever so that we could use they . these figure be , I regret to say , entirely predictable , and they be unsustainable : they put too much pressure on our public service . my constituent want to know — and we have be talk about this for year — when they will see a drop in the number . accord to the Office for National Statistics , the figure be start to fall — although the ONS ' s methodology itself keep move around , so one have to treat that with a degree of scepticism . it be now critical , to my mind , that we introduce a set of fundamental reform . the time for tinker be over , and I hope that the package that the Prime Minister , the Home Secretary and I will put together in the come week will meet the expectation of my hon . friend . we should not forget that we be talk about fellow human being who have make , and will go on to make , enormous contribution to our society — not least in hold together a health and social care sector that have be leave break by 13 year of Tory failure . do the Minister regret , as I do , the fact that the fearmongering and hyperbole that we have hear from his Benches today will give succour to the force of the far right who seek to divide our community , and will he join I in welcome , and express his solidarity with , all those who have choose to make the UK their home over the last year ? there have be no fearmongering whatsoever on the Government side of the House . there have be a simple and clear articulation of the view of the british public — include , I suspect , the hon . Gentleman ' s own constituent — that the level of net migration be too high , and of course we want to bring they down . I recall that when the hon . Gentleman and I have a discussion about housing asylum seeker in Birkenhead , he be not too keen on that , so I think we all have to engage in an honest debate and take the action that be need . my right hon . friend be work on many policy to try to solve the problem , but he will be aware that the performance of the Home Office in process all kind of application have be chronically poor . can he update we on the action that be be take , and on the direction in which he hope efficiency may be move when it come to process the policy that he want to put in place ? on that front , I can give my right hon . friend good news . the visa service and the Passport Office be perform in a way in which they have not perform for many year , and be meet their service standard in almost every respect . as for the asylum case working system , there have be a complete transformation over the last 12 month . a year ago , 400 decision be be make each week ; today the figure be about 4 , 000 , and I pay tribute to the many dedicated civil servant who have achieve that — particularly the director general of HM Passport Office and UK Visas and Immigration , Abi Tierney , an outstanding civil servant who have transform that service . can the Minister explain to the musician in Glasgow North who can no long afford to travel to Europe , the academic in Glasgow North who have lose so many opportunity to collaborate across border , and the hospitality and care sector venue that be cry out for staff why he think that the end of freedom of movement have be such a good thing ? if the hon . Gentleman be argue for high level of net migration than we see today , I suspect that he be a lone voice in the country . we be see substantial number of people come into the UK , in all visa category , and we want to take action to bring those number down . can my right hon . friend and perhaps the Home Secretary , who be present , tell I whether they share my concern about the fact that an increase amount of questionable European Court of Human Rights case law , via judgment , be actually be draft by foreign non - governmental organisation — unaccountable — and foreign judge — often unqualified — many of whom have close link with NGOs ? I should like an answer to this , please . we be very concerned about some of the issue that have arise out of the Court in Strasbourg , include the so - call pyjama injunction of the kind that block a flight to Rwanda in the summer of 2022 . that be why we be work with the Court on a package of reform . the first proposal in that regard have now be moot , and the Attorney General , the Lord Chancellor and the Home Secretary be work to put they into practice . this issue do raise fundamental question about the rule of law , and we want to see those resolve . Mali , Niger , Burkina Faso , Guinea and Chad : five coup in three year in sub - Saharan Africa and the Sahel . what more can the Government do to work across Government in order to reduce the number of fail state become a situation in which Islamic State , the Wagner Group and other terrorist organisation use push factor and illegal migration into Europe as a weapon of war ? my right hon . friend raise an important point . there be some evidence that hostile state be use migration as a weapon against country such as the United Kingdom . the new Home Secretary in his former role and I in my role as Immigration Minister have be to many country in north Africa and beyond , and time and again we have see persistent conflict , climate change and instability drive migration . that be go to be one of the feature of the 21st century , and that be why we want to be a strategic partner to those country , use our diplomacy and our overseas development aid budget to support refugee - produce country and crucial transit country such as those in north Africa for mutual benefit . it be quite clear that my right hon . friend get it on net migration . it be a shame that many people do not get it . in 2019 , I stand on a manifesto when net migration be around 220 , 000 and I promise my constituent that it would come down . last year the figure be 740 , 000 . this year it be 650 , 000 . this be a truly shocking state of affair . the disconnect between where most of the public be on migration and the reality be grow and grow . do the Minister agree that this growth in the disconnect have become an affront to our shared democracy and that urgent , radical action be need now ? I agree with my hon . friend that for 30 year the public have vote in general election to reduce the level of net migration , and it be important that we as politician , if we want to maintain their trust and confidence , act upon that . that be why the Home Secretary , the Prime Minister and I be work on a package of fundamental reform , and I hope that we will be able to bring those to the House very soon . I would like to thank the Minister for all the hard work he have do while he have be in his place , because I know how much he have do and how he have work with colleague here to make sure that he can drive this initiative through . it be absolutely the truth that the vast majority of people in this country want to see both the legal and illegal migration figure go down , and near to zero in the case of illegal migration . do he agree that we have see from the opposition today that their plan be not really to affect any figure , which be to prevent democracy from happen , but also to tinker around the edge and reclassify people to pretend that they can solve immigration when actually what they be go to do be just tell a few untruth , perhaps ? well , what a difference between the question on our side of the House and those from the Opposition Benches . the right hon . member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford ( Yvette Cooper ) say that the Labour party have a plan , but each and every one of her colleague behind she set out reason why we should have high level of net migration , not low . so we all know what would happen should there be a Labour Government ; it would be uncontrolle migration once again . a leopard do not change its spot . the Labour party have always stand for open door migration and it would do so again . the UK have be an extremely open and welcome country , but I think most people can see that even the most basic math show that number in the hundred of thousand be not sustainable and can not continue . this be have an unbearable impact on our housing , on our public service and particularly on school . in school in Stoke - on - Trent , some of the classroom have nearly every single child speak a different first language , which be have a massive impact on those school without any additional funding . can my right hon . friend ensure that we take urgent action now to address these serious issue ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to say that we need to take urgent action . he be also right to point out the profound impact that very high level of net migration have on certain community in particular , such as the one that he represent . it be often the poor community that feel the impact of legal and illegal migration most keenly in term of a lack of social housing , lack of access to public service , and people live more segregated life . we want to build a more cohesive and unified country . time and time again , the british public have tell we that immigration be too high and need to come down , and time and time again we have sadly leave they bitterly disappointed . the level of net migration we have see over recent year be completely unsustainable , have no democratic mandate whatsoever and be completely unacceptable . surely it be time to put this House and MPs in charge of the issue and to set legally bind cap on the number of migrant and asylum seeker . that might finally be a net zero policy I can support . the great reform that this Government have achieve be take back control of the lever of migration by leave the European Union . now the task fall to we to use those in a judicious and discern way to bring down the level of net migration , and that be exactly what we intend to do . I thank the Minister for answer the urgent question . Criminal Justice Bill Second Reading . before I ask the Home Secretary to move the second Reading , just another little reminder that as well as be here at the beginning to listen to the opening speech , it be important that those who be participate not only stay in for the majority of the debate but get back in good time for both the Opposition and Government wind - up . if anybody feel that they can not get back in time , they should let I know now so that I can withdraw their request to speak . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . victim of crime must have justice , and lawbreaker must face the consequence of their action . this Criminal Justice Bill will give the police the power they need to crack down on criminal and ensure that those who pose the big threat to the public be imprison for long . it will give the public great trust in the police and more confidence that the system work for they . we have always face criminal threat , but those threat mutate and evolve , so we have to stay ahead of they by update our technological capability and also update our law . we be build on strong foundation . compare with the year end spring 2010 , as measure by the crime survey of England and Wales , domestic burglary be down 57 % , vehicle - relate theft be down 39 % and violent crime be down by 52 % . Police - record homicide be down by 15 % and the number of under - 25 NHS admission for assault by a sharp object be down by 26 % in the year end June 2023 , compare with the year end December 2019 . I thank the Home Secretary for give way . it be so good to see he in the Chamber now . could he tell we what the percentage increase have be in knife crime since 2015 ? I do not have the figure to hand , but the — rise — the right hon . Lady have make an intervention . let I make some progress now — [ interruption . ] if she have the answer , she could have just stand up and say it rather than make this rather performative intervention . I will make some progress . we have also take the fight to the county line drug gang and to antisocial behaviour . of course , these success be not the Government ' s alone , but we have enable and support that success with record funding for police ; record number of police officer in England and Wales ; expand the power to stop and search ; and expand the power to tackle disruptive protest . of course , we have also cut red tape , which mean that more of those police officer be out on the beat fighting crime . we be build over 20 , 000 more prison place and ensure that offender face the tough possible punishment for their crime . we will never rest , and we will go far still . this Bill will support the Government ' s zero - tolerance approach to crime by give the police , the court and the other criminal justice agency the power they need to make our neighbourhood even safe still . illegal drug and knife crime bring chaos and misery to individual . they destroy family and ruin neighbourhood . Knife crime be a scourge in many of our city and , during my time on the London Assembly and as a Member of this House , I have see for myself the devastation it can bring to family . any family can be affect by drug misuse . I send a message to so - call casual user of recreational drug that their action underpin a vicious trade that have a profound and negative human cost . that be why we be give the police more power to seize and destroy bladed article and to drug test more suspect upon arrest . the Bill increase the maximum penalty for sell dangerous weapon to under - 18 and create a new criminal offence of possess a bladed article with intent to cause harm . it will enable the police to seize , retain and destroy knife hold in private when officer be lawfully on private property and have reasonable ground to suspect the item or item will likely be use in violent crime . the police will also be able to test individual in police detention for specify class b and class c drug , just as they can already test for specify class a drug . this will mean that the police can direct more suspect use illegal drug into treatment , which will help to reduce drug use , support recovery and , of course , cut crime . those who refuse a drug test , or who fail to attend or stay for the duration of a direct drug assessment , may be commit a further offence . although drug testing make sense , it be also important that we have drug and alcohol treatment facility , which be still very patchy across the country . will the Home Secretary comment on what can be do to improve that patchiness ? the hon . Gentleman make an incredibly important point . of course , this Bill focus on the crime and criminal justice part of the equation , but he be right that treatment be important . that be why I be very proud that this Government have invest an extra £ 600 million in the very thing he raise , because we realise that , as well as have robust criminal justice action , we need those treatment facility . a tough but humane approach to illegal drug be the only plausible way forward . the House know that be a victim of any kind of crime be deeply distressing . no crime should be screen out by the police solely because they perceive it to be minor . in August , the police commit to follow all reasonable line of inquiry for all crime type . that be a hugely welcome development , and it be my job to give police force every possible support in that endeavour . the Bill confer additional target power on the police to enter premise without a warrant to seize steal good such as mobile phone where they have reasonable ground to believe that there be particular item of steal property on the premise . gp location tracking technology , for example , could provide such ground . this give the police an opportunity to address a particularly prevalent crime type . the Bill also give the police great access to the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency ' s driver record in order to identify criminal . public confidence in policing be , of course , vital , but it be also vital that officer have confidence in each other and that police leader can root out those who be unfit to wear the uniform . we want to ensure that we never again see the culture of defensiveness and self - interest that , sadly , we see in the aftermath of the terrible incident at Hillsborough and follow the killing of Daniel Morgan . the Bill therefore introduce a duty of candour in police . this follow Bishop James Jones ' s report , which shine a light on the experience of the incredibly brave family of the Hillsborough victim . those family have be through a lengthy and terrible ordeal . I welcome the Home Secretary to his position . he rightly say that a new proposal be be bring forward on police misconduct , but he also mention public confidence . would the public not have more confidence in the police if any officer who fail their vetting be automatically dismiss ? we be take action to ensure that police officer , both at the start of their career and through their career , be hold to appropriately high standard . on that particular issue , this be something we be take forward . it be part , but not the totality , of what need to be do , which be why we be outline a number of thing in the Bill . through the Bill , we will give chief constable the right to appeal the outcome or finding of a misconduct panel to the police appeal tribunal . chief constable be responsible for uphold standard in their force , so it be right that they have a statutory route to challenge decision that they consider unreasonable . a person be not safe unless they be safe everywhere : in their home , at work , in public place and , of course , online . the Bill build on the intimate image sharing offence in the Online Safety Act 2023 by introduce new offence address the taking or recording of intimate image or film without consent , as well as address the installing of equipment to enable the commission of the taking - or - record offence . this mean we now have a comprehensive and coherent package of offence that be effective in tackle intimate image abuse , which be a truly horrible crime that can have a lasting negative effect on victim . I thank my right hon . friend and his colleague for their fantastic work in implement the Law Commission ' s review in this area . it really be a testament to the Government that they have do that . however , some victim of intimate image abuse face another issue , because their image be still legally online and have not be take down by some website provider . will my right hon . friend encourage one of his Ministers to meet I to talk about this far , and about possibly address it in this Bill ? I welcome my right hon . friend ' s intervention . I be more than happy to ensure that her point be discuss with the Department , so that we can see what we can do to incorporate what she hope to achieve either in this Bill or in guidance to the internet service provider and online platform . the Bill also fulfil the Government ' s commitment make during the passage of the Online Safety Act to broaden the offence of encourage or assist serious self - harm to cover all mean , not just communication , by which serious self - harm may be encourage or assist . that could include , but be not limit to , direct assistance such as give someone a blade with which to seriously harm themselves . this broad offence will give full effect to the recommendation of the Law Commission ' s 2021 " Modernising Communications Offences " report . I welcome the Home Secretary to his post . not only be he the Home Secretary , but he be an old friend of mine , and I hope he stay long in this post than he have in the other . have have a tragedy close to my family of a young woman take her own life , may I ask that we remove from social medium these aid to and promotion of suicide , and thing show people how to conduct it ? the hon . Gentleman make an incredibly important point . sadly , far too many people have , like he , experience the implication of this kind of content online , and I take his point very seriously . we will look at both legislative and non - legislative measure to make sure that we genuinely do everything we can to remove content that encourage sometimes very vulnerable people into a dark place . the Bill create a new statutory aggravating factor for murder that be connect to the end of a relationship or the victim ' s intention to end a relationship . kill in that context be the final control act of an abusive partner , and its seriousness will now be recognise in law . the Bill also add the offence of control or coercive behaviour to the list of offence that require automatic management of offender under the statutory multi - agency public protection arrangement . we recognise that antisocial behaviour do so much to blight people ' s life and undermine the pride and confidence that they rightly have in their local community . at its bad , antisocial behaviour can drastically lower the quality of life for whole neighbourhood . the Government ' s antisocial behaviour action plan , publish in March , set out a strong approach to work with local agency so that antisocial behaviour be treat with the seriousness and urgency it deserve . the Bill enhance that with a range of new measure , include enable the police to make public space protection order and register social housing provider to issue premise closure notice ; lower the minimum age of a person who may be issue with a community protection notice from 16 to 10 ; and increase the maximum amount of a fix penalty notice from £ 100 to £ 500 for breach of a public space protection order or community protection notice . every public service should be accountable to the public , and we be strengthen the accountability of community safety partnership and improve the way in which they work with police and crime commissioner to tackle crime and antisocial behaviour . for example , PCCs will be give the power to make recommendation on the activity of community safety partnership , which in turn will be duty - bind to consider those recommendation . that proposal follow feedback from various source that the power available to the police , local authority and other agency could be use more consistently . we need every part of the system to work together as one well - oil machine . Nuisance beg and rough sleeping can , of course , be a form of antisocial behaviour . the former may be very intimidating and the latter may also cause damage , disruption and harassment to the public . the Home Secretary will be aware of the campaign across the House to scrap the Vagrancy Act 1824 , which do not come into force until all these clause come in — so I be very pleased to see they . look at the detail , we see that it form a third of the Bill — it be enormous . do he share my concern that by replace the Vagrancy Act with a measure of this level and strength , we be not treat homelessness with the compassion that we say we want , and we be create a rod for our own back , which we just do not need ? we have commit to scrap the 1824 Act , and nobody should or will be criminalise simply for have nowhere to live . that be why we be repeal the outdated 1824 Act . however , we need to make sure that thing such as nuisance begging be address , because the british public have tell we that they feel these action be intimidate — I be sure that member from across the House hear that in our advice surgery and will have have people tell they that — and it be right that we respond to their concern . the hon . Lady make the point , imply in her question , that people end up rough sleeping for a wide variety of reason , include , sometimes , because they be themselves the victim of abuse or they have medical condition , be they physical or mental . that be why last year we publish our " end rough sleeping for good " strategy , and we have make an unprecedented £ 2 billion commitment over three year to accelerate the effort to address homelessness at source . I thank the Home Secretary for give way again ; I will not test his patience too much more . however , I should point out that we have be work on this since 2018 , when I start this campaign . I have meet countless Ministers over the year and not once do nuisance rough sleeping come up as the issue . Nuisance begging do , and there be a debate to be have on that and I would happily have it . all I ask be : will he consider meet I and other from both side of the House who have take a keen interest in this issue for a very long time so that we can put across our concern about what be in this Bill to replace the 1824 Act ? I say that because this look like Vagrancy Act 2 . 0 on steroid . we have present a Bill and the House have the opportunity to debate it . so rather than have conversation in private , the legislative process — the process of debate — be design for member from across the House to inject their idea , thought and suggestion into the legislation . that be literally what the passage of a Bill be design to do . I wish to share my concern , which be those the hon . Lady have mention . the Bill introduce a wide definition of " nuisance rough sleeping " that be incredibly concern to I , because it will criminalise people who be rough sleeping . in practice , it will result in bad criminalisation of people sleep rough than under the draconian Vagrancy Act . will the Home Secretary and Government Members give any assurance and clarity about the intention ? the Bill make it clear that any action that will be take will be in response to a continue refusal to abide by the move - on power that the Bill provide , so I do not agree with the hon . Lady ' s assessment of how this will play out in practice . however , as I say , this be the Second reading of the Bill and there will be opportunity through its passage for idea , thought , concern and potential improvement to be put forward . I encourage she and the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) to put forward their idea , because we recognise that this be an important issue . we want to get it right , but we be respond to specific concern that have be raise . the Home Secretary be right to say that the Vagrancy Act , as it come to its bicentenary , be ripe for renewal and change , and there be an interesting debate to be have . he be right to identify that it be a problem for many of our constituent . the other problem , which he know I will be talk about later , be the offence of spike . I be listen keenly to what he say and no doubt he will touch on that in a moment or two . my hon . friend make an important point about the need to update a number of provision , include the Vagrancy Act 1824 . I know he feel strongly about that and , through the passage of the Bill , I be more than happy to listen to his contribution about other opportunity to update and modernise legacy legislation , which have serve we well but for a very , very long time , to ensure that it be relevant for the modern world , not the victorian — or sometimes georgian — era when the provision be originally draft . these matter raise the issue of proportionality , and I be sympathetic to the Government ' s position , but do my right hon . friend accept that a number of other area in the Bill , most of which be very good , will need careful examination ? for example , the power to enable entrance to premise without a warrant will need to be support by the evidence base . will my right hon . Friend also bear in mind that we need to move with some care on the practicality of transfer to foreign prison ? although that may be useful to have in the toolbox , when it have be use abroad the evidence be very mixed as to how long and significant a difference it can make . as the Bill progress through the House , will he engage with the Justice Committee and other on the evidence that we have receive on those issue ? my long - stand hon . friend make a number of point . of course we want to ensure the Bill work . when the Bill be enact , we want to ensure it improve the life of people who might be victim of crime and help to avoid that victimisation , but we also want to ensure that appropriate check and balance be in place . I feel confident that those be in place , but it be the duty of those on the Treasury Bench to ensure that all member of the House share that confidence . in that spirit , on the basis that this be Second reading and there be opportunity for this otherwise good Bill to be improve , will my right hon . friend take on board the important point about ensure that we get right the extension of the identification principle on corporate criminal liability ? we make big progress in the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 and the Government be now follow through on their intention , but I want to ensure we get the wording absolutely right . secondly , I note with enthusiasm the presence in the schedule of restrict cost provision relate to restraint order for the proceed of crime . we have long say that uncapped cost be a deterrent to make robust application . will he consider extend those principle to other area of activity , so that we can see more application be make without the fear of be clobber by cost ? my right hon . and learn Friend make some important and useful point base on his extensive experience . of course , we listen very carefully to the contribution that have be make . with the indulgence of the House , I want to make progress so that Back Bench Members have time for debate . we need to understand that crime be a business — a big business . serious organise criminal be relentless , adaptable and resourceful . that be why we be ban article that be use to commit serious crime , include template for 3d print firearm component , pill press , and vehicle concealment and signal jammer that be use in modern vehicle theft . in ban the supply , adaptation , manufacture and import of those article , as well as their possession , we will target the corrupt individual who profit from supply those article to those involve in serious criminality while keep just enough distance from the offence be carry out to avoid face the inevitable consequence of their action . we be also strengthen the operation of the serious crime prevention order . it be absolutely right to make it easy for the police and other law enforcement agency to place restriction on offender or suspect offender and stop they from participate in further crime . Fraud be now the most prevalent form of crime . it cost this country billion of pound annually and be a terrible personal violation . I have no doubt that every Member of the House will know constituent who have suffer from that type of crime . the Criminal Justice Bill contain several new measure to tackle fraudster and the perpetrator of other serious crime . we be prohibit the possession and supply of SIM farm that have no legitimate purpose . law enforcement agency will have extend power to suspend domain name and ip address use for fraudulent purpose or other serious crime . we be also reform the power use to strip convict criminal of the proceed of crime . a new scheme will see the Government work with the financial sector to use the money in account suspend on suspicion of crime to fund project tackle economic crime . go beyond economic crime , we be far expand the identification principle , so that company can be hold criminally responsible when a senior manager in that company commit a crime . while fraud account for 40 % of record crime at the moment , only 1 % of police resource be use to deal with it . what be the Home Secretary ' s thought on that ? by the nature of this crime type , specialism in investigation be inevitable . ultimately , the training and deployment of the resource of the police and other crime fighting agency will naturally need to reflect that . it be not quite as simple as map the proportion of crime to the proportion of police officer , but implicit in the right hon . Lady ' s question be the fact that we need to upskill investigator so that they can focus on those crime type . we be put the legislative measure in place , the funding be in place , the increase in police number be in place and we be happy to work with pcc and chief constable to ensure that those resource be deploy in the most effective way . will my right hon . friend give way a final time ? cheeky . it may save the House hear from I at some length later . I welcome the measure on fraud , because they follow on from the Justice Committee ' s report last year that highlight the gap in our way of deal with it . will the Home Secretary look carefully at how we reform the identification principle ? there remain a concern that the exemption that be place on the size of business in the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 may have the perverse effect of allow many fraudster to split their business up into small unit that fall below the threshold in that Act . Glencore , for example , have only 50 employee but be still one of the big fraud that do massive harm . can we take the opportunity to look at that issue ? once again , my hon . friend make a good point . we be always willing to listen to suggestion from colleague around the House that will strengthen the ability to close loophole , so that sinister but clever and adaptable individual do not find a way of navigate through the legislation , so I take his idea on board . I do not have much of my speech leave , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be sure you would encourage I to move quickly , and I beg the indulgence of the House to do so . there have be a concern increase in the number of serious offender refuse to attend their sentencing . it be a further insult to the victim and the family ; as we have see , it cause a huge amount of upset . that be why we be give judge express statutory power to order offender convict of an offence punishable with a life sentence to attend their sentencing hearing . that measure will apply to all offender convict of any offence that carry a maximum penalty of life imprisonment . adult offender who refuse to do so , without reasonable excuse , will face punishment with an additional custodial sentence of up to 24 month . the legislation will also make it clear that judge in the Crown court may direct the production of any adult offender , and that the custody officer can use reasonable force to ensure that they be produce . will my right hon . friend give way ? I be sorry , but I promise Madam Deputy Speaker that I would be wind up . last year , the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse publish its final report . it reveal the terrible extent to which child have be betray over decade not only by rapist and abuser but sadly , in too many instance , by those who should have be there to protect they . we must honour the courage of those who have speak out by do thing differently . everything possible must be do to prevent these crime . when they do occur , they should be meet with heavy punishment . the Bill introduce a new statutory aggravate factor to capture offender who demonstrate grooming behaviour in connection with specify sexual offence against child and young people , or whose offence have be facilitate by groom by other . the groom itself need not be sexual ; it may be undertake by any offender or a third party and commit against the victim of the underlie offence or a third party . the Government will also bring forward amendment to the Bill to restrict the ability of register sex offender to change their name in certain circumstance . follow consideration of the response to our consultation , which close on 30 November , we also plan to bring forward amendment to provide for a legal duty to report child sexual abuse . I be incredibly grateful to the Home Secretary for bring forward legislation on sexual offender change their name by deed poll , but we could not find it anywhere in the Bill , so be there any reason why there be a lag ? it be because we will have to bring it through as an amendment , but I can assure the hon . Lady that we be committed to make this work . [ interruption . ] it be a Government amendment . [ interruption . ] I disapprove of theft in all circumstance except for when someone bring forward a truly good idea . let I return now to the duty to report child sexual abuse . walk by or turn a blind eye should never , and must never , be an option . the Bill enable polygraph testing to be extend to more serious sexual and terrorism - link offence , include for convict murderer who be assess as pose a risk of sexual offending on release . it also ensure that those serve multiple sentence alongside a sentence for a sex offence can be test for the whole of their licence period . the measure far apply to individual convict of non - terrorism offence who would have be determine by the court to have a terrorism connection if the option have be available at the time of the sentencing . the Government have a programme to build 20 , 000 new prison place . it be the big prison building programme since the victorian era . Prison demand be likely to increase over the medium term , as we continue to empower police force and the court to drive down crime and punish offender . in order temporarily to increase prison capacity , the Bill will introduce domestic power to transfer prisoner to rent prison space overseas subject to future agreement with other country . Norway and Belgium have successfully rent prison place from the Netherlands in the past . the Bill will also extend the remit of his Majesty ' s inspectorate of prison to include any rental prison place abroad . the Criminal Justice Bill will give the police great power , the public great confidence , and the court great ability to punish offender and protect the law - abide majority , and I invite the whole House to get behind it . it be good to see the Home Secretary in his place . he be not here for the urgent question early , but he have be have a bit of a week of it . he have to pseudo - apologise yesterday to my hon . friend the Member for Stockton North ( Alex Cunningham ) for his language . he have be rude about northern town and rude about northern mp . although he may be all over the place on home affair , we should perhaps be relieve that he be no long in charge of diplomacy for the nation — although , to be fair , give the treatment of the greek Prime Minister in the past 24 hour , thing may have get even bad since he leave . as I say , the Home Secretary do not come to the Chamber early to answer the urgent question , but I gather from report that he be meet back - Bench Conservative mps . certainly , yesterday , he have half his party stand up to complain about his policy . the problem seem to be that he think his Rwanda policy be batshit , that have drive his Back Benchers apeshit , and now his whole party be in deep sh - amble . the Home Secretary tell we yesterday that he do not really know yet what be go on in the immigration system , so I assume from today ' s speech that he be still get the hang of what be go on in the criminal justice system . his claim about how well thing be go be incredibly out of touch . let I sum it up for he . after 13 year of Conservative Government , thing be pretty dire : 90 % of crime now go unsolved ; the charge rate have drop by two third ; more criminal be get off ; and more victim be be let down . the Prime Minister have an excuse when he say that thing be great : he only see thing from a helicopter , but the rest of they have no such excuse and they be out of touch . if a person commit a crime today , they be less than half as likely to be catch as they be under the previous Labour Government . that be the collapse of law and order under this Conservative Government , who have be in power for 13 year . in the past eight year , we have have eight Home Secretaries and 10 Justice Secretaries . we have huge court backlog and delay , record number of crime be drop with no suspect identify , and record number of victim drop out of the criminal justice process due to lack of support and unacceptable delay . new technology have help to prevent some volume crime , but serious violence be up by 60 % on 2015 . the Home Secretary do not have the figure to hand on knife crime , but knife crime be up by 70 % , and the number of young victim of violence be at its high in a decade . I have speak to mum who have lose their child through knife crime ; they feel as if they have lose their future , but they want we to act to save other child ' s life . crime at the heart of our community and town centre be also on the rise . we have see shoplifting surge to record level — up 25 % in the past year alone — but town centre policing have drop . many town have see a huge drop in neighbourhood police on the beat and half the country say that they do not see police on the street . there be now 10 , 000 few police and police community support officer in neighbourhood team . when the Home Secretary talk about police number , we remember the 20 , 000 police officer that his party cut , for which we be still pay the price across the country . the lack of police on the street mean that half the country never see they . that be the result of 10 , 000 few police and pcso on our street , and that be the backdrop to this Bill . quite simply , it be not enough to tackle the serious problem that the country and the criminal justice system face . my right hon . friend be speak with great authority on this . every Member of this House know how underfunde the police be . we have not only an underfunded police force , but a justice system that have be cut and cut and cut again . we must do something to build it up again , and perhaps the way we will do that be to have a new Labour Government . my hon . friend be right that huge damage have be do to police and the criminal justice system . in addition , because police be often the public face of the criminal justice system , the fact that confidence in policing have be heavily knock have an impact on confidence in and respect for the rule of law in our country . that be why it be so serious and why there ought to be cross - party support for restore confidence in police and the criminal justice system . one more very small point : I think my right hon . friend know of my interest in miscarriage of justice , but be it not a fact that in this underfunded criminal justice system we see more miscarriage of justice ? it be certainly the case that far too many victim be not get justice , because they be either drop out of the system or be let down . the opposition support the Bill before we and we will support its Second Reading . of course there will be individual measure that we need to pursue , but there be many measure in it that be labour policy or that Labour have call for . however , the Bill simply do not go far enough to address the challenge that we face . we welcome the fact that the Government have now agree to labour ' s call to crack down on antisocial behaviour by go after drug dealer with strong closure order and the introduction of the power of arrest for breach of antisocial behaviour injunction . in 2013 , the then Conservative Home Secretary remove the power of arrest when antisocial behaviour injunction be introduce , and we warn that they would not be strong enough . it have take the Government 10 year to restore the power of arrest , but we welcome it . on fraud , we call for the introduction of corporate criminal liability during the passage of the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 , so we be pleased to see it in this Bill now . we have also support strong sentence on sexual offence . we support the increase in sentencing for the most serious offence and the power to compel perpetrator to attend sentencing in person . justice must be see to be do and the victim of the most heinous crime need to see justice do and sentence give with the perpetrator stand before the court . we also welcome plan to tackle revenge porn and image - base abuse . the right hon . member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) make a very important point on that , which we be keen to discuss far and support in Committee . we also welcome tough sentence for those who commit murder at the end of a relationship . it be welcome that the Government have ditch the plan to make cancel tent their entire policy on homelessness , but we will need to pursue the detail of the measure in the Bill , because they do not address the root cause of homelessness . the last Labour Government cut rough sleeping by two third , but under the conservative that progress have be reverse and it be now up by 75 % . in February last year , both Houses of Parliament support the repeal of the Vagrancy Act 1824 via an amendment to the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Bill . however , no commencement date be include in the amendment , so the Vagrancy Act technically remain in force . the Government be now introduce replacement legislation via this Bill . be my right hon . friend as confuse as I be about why that would be ? my hon . friend make an important point about the detail and I hope that , in the evidence - gather session in Committee , evidence be properly take on that . it be an area where the legislation need to be get right and concern have be raise . there be also the wide problem of a toxic mix of rent and the failure to end no - fault eviction , which be hit vulnerable people hard , and the conservative still have not keep their promise to act on that . there be still a series of substantial omission from the Bill that we would like to see add to it . there be nothing to ensure that neighbourhood policing be properly restore . we have set out proposal for 13 , 000 more neighbourhood police and police community support officer , and we want to see that underpin in legislation . there be nothing in the Bill to turn around the shocking collapse in charge rate . for example , there be no plan to tackle the problem of redaction — a problem I know the Policing Minister recognise — where officer effectively spend hour and the equivalent of a bottle of Tipp - Ex have to redact a whole series of thing before file be even pass to the Crown Prosecution Service . many have argue that legislation need to be change to tackle that . do so could save police officer hour and hour of time , and I think it be include in the police productivity review . surely we ought to be able to tackle that , but it be currently not in the Bill . the Bill be also not strong enough in its measure to tackle town centre crime . a law bring in by the Conservative Government , again around 10 year ago , mean that shop theft under £ 200 often be not investigate , even if the same gang come back time and again . we should end that £ 200 rule to tackle the shoplifting gang . we also have shop staff who be petrify to go to work when there be 850 incident a day of violence and abuse against shop worker . the week before last , during respect for Shopworkers Week , I have the pleasure of visit one of my local Co - op . they have have £ 155 , 000 - worth of good steal in the first six month of this year . for many store , that be enough to close they down . I commend USDAW — the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers — and the Co - op for the work they be do on that , but the police be just not turn up or take it seriously . I commend what my right hon . Friend say ; let we see whether she can push the Government to move far here . my hon . friend be absolutely right about the impact of shoplifting . if town centre do not feel safe , it be local business that be hit and can end up go under as a result , undermine local economy and put off local resident who want to go shop . sometimes elderly resident , in particular , will simply not go into town anymore if they do not feel safe , and if they feel that law be just not be enforce when they watch people leave the shop with a big bag of good steal from the shelf and see nothing be do . it be just not good enough . that be why my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham North ( Alex Norris ) rightly call for strong measure to tackle assault on shop worker . the Government do finally agree , as a result of his campaigning , to an aggravate sentence for assault shop worker , but that be not enough . the whole point be to make it simple for the police to take action and to send a clear message from Parliament to police that this be an offence we take immensely seriously . that be why Labour will be table amendment that reflect the campaign by USDAW , the Co - op , Tesco , the British Retail Consortium and small convenience store for a new law and tough sentence for attack on our shop worker . everyone should have the right to work in safety and to live free from fear . we do take retail theft and shoplift very seriously and agree that more need to be do , but may I draw the shadow Home Secretary ' s attention , and that of the House , to the retail crime action plan , which the Government agree with the National Police Chiefs ' Council just a few week ago ? in that plan , the police commit to investigate reasonable line of inquiry for all shoplifting case , include run CCTV evidence through facial recognition software , attend the scene of a crime where that be necessary to gather evidence , where there have be an assault or where the offender have be detain , and use datum analytic specifically to go after prolific offender . all that be in addition to Project Pegasus , a joint project with retailer to go after serious and organised crime . I hope she will join I in welcome the plan , which I believe will be very effective . I would gently say to the Minister that the fact that it be an announcement — it be a plan . it be a plan ; it be not even an announcement of something that be go to happen . it be an announcement that there be a plan for the police to check CCTV when a theft have take place . that just show how bad thing have get over the past 13 year . we welcome any work that be be do , include by the British Retail Consortium with the National Police Chiefs ' Council . however , the Government be not take the action that they should be take to underpin this . in particular , they be not change the law either on assault against shop worker or on the £ 200 limit , and neither be they support the neighbourhood police we need to do the work to deliver the plan . there be 10 , 000 few neighbourhood police and pcso on our street and in our community , and community know that . it do not matter what the Policing Minister say or what figure he pluck from thin air : people know . they can see it . we all see it in our own town in our own constituency , and half the country now say they never see the police on the beat . will the right hon . Lady give way ? I will give way , because the Policing Minister be a glutton for punishment on this one . the shadow Home Secretary be very kind to give way . I be sorry that fact and figure get in the way of her argument but , as I say at oral question yesterday , the neighbourhood police figure that she keep quote be unintentionally misleading . local policing number cover neighbourhood policing , emergency response and other . since 2015 , which be the year that she cite , those number have go up from 61 , 000 to 67 , 000 , and overall police number be at record level , at 149 , 566 — 3 , 500 high than under the last Labour Government . this be the problem with the Policing Minister : he just think that the country have never have it so good on crime and policing . as far as the country be concern , he be incredibly out of touch . that be not what be happen in town and city across the country . the idea that we can just merge neighbourhood policing and response team , which be different thing , show that he simply do not understand the importance of neighbourhood police or what it actually do . neighbourhood police be the team who be locate locally . they will not just be call off for a crisis at the other end of the borough , district or force area ; they be the police officer who can deal with local crime . they be not the officer who have to deal with rise level of mental health crisis , which we know so many of the response unit have to deal with . there have be a big shift away from neighbourhood policing and into response police because the police be be reactive , deal with crisis that this Conservative Government have totally fail to prevent for 13 year . the Government have demolish a lot of the prevention work and teamworking between neighbourhood officer and other agency in local area , and as a result the other response officer be have to pick up the piece instead . the Policing Minister ' s approach just show why the Tories be fail after 13 year . it be not the answer . on the restoration of police number , may I inform the Policing Minister that in Cleveland the number have be slash by 500 since 2010 ? they have still not be restore , so we be still down in those number . on retail crime , we can not take any lesson from the conservative party — the conservative police and crime commissioner in Cleveland receive a caution for handle good steal from his then supermarket employer . this stuff about retail crime be , quite frankly , hogwash . my hon . friend make an important point — [ interruption . ] I do not think the claim make from a sedentary position by the Policing Minister help he in the slight , give the challenge involve the current police and crime commissioner . we ought to have a consensus on tackle knife crime . there be some measure in the Bill , but they do not go anywhere near far enough . I urge the Home Secretary to consider a proper offence of child criminal exploitation to prevent people draw child into criminal activity in the first place , as well as strong action on the loophole that still allow online marketplace to sell knife . we have have multiple announcement over the year about take action against zombie knife , but it be groundhog day , because far too many be still be sell easily and not enough be be do about it . the Bill also do not go far enough on violence against woman and girl . we still need rape investigation unit in every police force , we need all 999 control room to have domestic abuse expert , and we need strong requirement on police force to use the tactic and tool normally reserve for organised crime and terrorist organisation to identify and go after the most dangerous repeat abuser and rapist and get they off our street . too many thing be not in the Bill . overall , there be still no proper plan to raise confidence in police and the criminal justice system . that confidence have plummet , put respect for law and order in our country at risk . we support the Bill and will work across party to strengthen the measure in it , but it will not tackle the serious problem that we face . security be the bedrock of opportunity . if people do not feel safe — if they do not believe that anyone will come or anything will be do when thing go wrong — that undermine confidence in their community , in their way of life and in the rule of law in our country . that be what be at stake here , that be why incremental measure be not enough , and that be why we need to tackle the crisis of confidence and halve serious violence . Labour have commit to halve serious violence , include violence against woman and girl , and to increase police confidence , the number of criminal who be charge , and the number of victim who get justice . those ought to be share objective , but for too long the Conservatives have undermine they . that be why we need change . it be a pleasure to follow the opening Front - Bench speech , to which I have listen with interest . it feel like groundhog day , if I may say so , on many count and front . first and foremost , there be much to welcome in the Bill . I bear the scar of have take a number of criminal justice measure through the House — with great pleasure and through work with colleague , include some Back - Bench colleague who serve with I in government . I think we can all reflect on how important it be that this criminal justice legislation strike a fundamental balance between protect civil liberty ; support victim wholeheartedly in everything that we do as legislator ; prevent crime , which must be absolutely front and centre of what it do ; and punish offender . this be a point of reflection . we in this House have discuss all those theme in separate debate , urgent question and statement over a number of week . when it come to punish offender , I know that the Lord Chancellor have , from the Dispatch Box , try to address the issue to do with prison space . at the same time , we have be have conversation about prevent crime and support victim . those be all personal and human aspect on which we must get the balance right . I can not emphasise this enough : we need to bring in and operationalise practical measure that deliver the desire effect and outcome . in the debate thus far , we have not fully reflect on what it mean to put into practice the delivery of such measure — what it mean for resource , policing , prison space , the use of stop and search , and , importantly , how we put victim front and centre of everything we do . we must also demonstrate why those desire impact be need above and beyond what be already in place . we have good measure in place already , but now we have to reflect on they and go over and beyond , in the light of some of the point that have be make in the debate . I will come to many of those point . I know that , while the Bill be go through Parliament , my right hon . friend the Home Secretary will have to brace himself for the significant amount of lobbying that will come his way from inside and outside the House . I reflect on that because a great deal of experience that will come his way , and those important discussion will be moment for he to reflect on the practicality not just of what go in the Bill , but of its delivery . I thank he for the conversation that we have have in the past week . he will build on the many practical suggestion that will come his way . before I comment on the measure in the Bill , it be important to reflect on the action that have be take in recent year and the difference that they be make . it be too easy to come in and throw the baby out with the bathwater . a lot of good be do in previous Bills . I will pay tribute later to the work to invest in and recruit 20 , 000 more police officer . that have have an effect not just on the criminal justice system , but on build public confidence in police — we should never stand still on that . at the end of the day , the public look to we all — certainly to a Conservative Government — to ensure that we have the manpower to tackle crime and antisocial behaviour , which have be mention . importantly , we must give the public confidence that law and order be on their side and will use every pillar and strain every sinew , include police officer and the criminal justice system , to be on their side . of course , the beat crime plan contain significant detail about measure to target hotspot of criminal activity , include many dreadful aspect that have be touch on today , such as antisocial behaviour , homicide and knife crime . for example , the plan include the introduction of violence reduction unit and investment in safe street through the safe street fund — important measure that must be build on to deliver safety practically and to build confidence in the criminal justice system . the right hon . Lady talk about have confidence in the criminal justice system . I will park for a moment the reason we be see an increase in police number : that , obviously , there be a drop previously . do she agree that one of the big problem be the huge backlog in the court — not as a result of covid ; that have exacerbate it , but it be there before — that will take until 2025 to get anywhere near back to previous level ? I have a constituent who be violently attack in front of her seven - year - old child . it be three year before her court case be take . the situation leave the police powerless , as the individual in question can keep break his non - molestation order , with no further action take . it be all very well have the police officer , but do the right hon . Lady have anything to say about the court system ? the hon . member be absolutely right . we have discuss that issue more broadly in relation to an end - to - end criminal justice system be fit for purpose : work to a sensible timeframe ; the police be able to process the case with the Crown Prosecution Service ; and then , obviously , the case go to court . I be afraid that there be a lot of merit in the whole debate , particularly around sexual violence and rape case . we have discuss the matter many time and much more can be do . good support have be bring in to address violence against woman and girl — the rape review have take place and there have be investment in independent domestic violence adviser — but there be fundamental criminal justice system issue around case of this nature , include : the time such case take ; the level of attrition ; and the retraumatisation of victim , because these case be absolutely appalling . I have raise this subject in the House many time , include from the Dispatch Box , and have speak about personal case that have come to I through constituent . we all have tragic constituency case , and we have to make sure that we be strong advocate to bring about justice for those victim . let I turn to a number of strong measure that be already in place . a great deal of work have take place to tackle drug gang , organised crime and county line . the Government deserve great credit for that and for their work on the ring of steel . I use to harp on about the fact that we do not grow these drug in our country — and some be obviously manufacture — but it be vital that we have in place a ring of steel around our port and airport to make sure that we do absolutely everything we can to stop at source the scourge of terrible chemical and drug come into our country . we should never , ever stop do that work ; and that go back to the point about the investment require in our port and in law enforcement . the violence against woman and girl strategy and the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 have help victim of the most horrific crime , but I will touch on what more can be do . I welcome the new Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Newbury ( Laura Farris ) , to her place . I look forward to work with she on these sensitive and difficult issue . on policing , the Government have enshrine the police covenant in statute , give the police more power to fight crime and increase prison sentence . that be all part of offender management and make our community safe . I know that the former Home Secretary take the police covenant very seriously . do she agree that , as well as the police covenant , we should have a police bravery award for those who lose their life in the line of duty ? the right hon . Lady be absolutely right ; we have have discussion about that point previously . I think this might be an opportune moment to pay tribute to those police officer who have lose their life defend community , be braver than ever and go after the criminal out there . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] we see so many act of bravery , but I be sorry to say that they be sometimes not recognise enough . a lot of our police officer sadly get a bad rap because of other reporting issue and all sort of thing , but the reality be that we should pay tribute to and give the right recognition to those who be out there on the frontline , defend we . the right hon . Lady will be familiar with the police bravery award — what a sobering moment , when we honour our police officer — but we must do more to represent the fallen and to protect family member . that be why the police covenant be so important . I would like this House and Ministers in particular to do much more collectively to recognise that bravery , because the family of officer be affect in a very challenging way . I be move , around the period of remembrance , that Gloucestershire Constabulary arrange for a short ceremony in which all the mps in our county gather together with the Gloucestershire Constabulary to commemorate those who have die in early conflict and those who have suffer during very difficult moment more recently . do my right hon . friend agree that that be something that might be roll out across the country ? that be a very nice practical example of a community come together to commemorate and recognise that public service . we be speak about people who give public service to our country to protect we all , while at the same time make enormous sacrifice . I have the great privilege of spend much of my time as Home Secretary with law enforcement , include police officer on the frontline , and with some of their family member , so I have hear first - hand testimony of the sacrifice make . that be particularly the case for the love one of officer who have die in the line of duty ; it be incredibly sobering . this Bill be important , and as it progress I look forward to work with the Front - Bench team on the measure they be introduce . I will touch on some of the positive measure , as there be section of the Bill that be hugely welcome . this legislation go far in give the public confidence in criminal justice and police to keep our citizen and our country safe . there be provision to address the use of 3d printer and electronic communication device that aid vehicle theft . I think it be fair to say that we be great believer in design crime out through the use of technology — make it hard for criminal who abuse the system to even commit the crime in the first place . the measure in the Bill should help in that preventive work . criminal be clever : they be constantly adapt , they be agile and they evolve their method . as legislator , we must be prepared to make sure that we can do more to support the police to fight offender . I welcome more detail on how the Government will continue to grow their plan . the Policing Minister mention facial recognition , and I support that work . it be about time that we stand up to some of the legal challenge and bring in more facial recognition provision to strengthen law enforcement . I particularly welcome the measure in clause 9 , 10 and 18 relate to knife and bladed article . I agree that more can be do . online loophole around the purchase of weapon have be a subject of discussion in the House for a long time , and I think we could do much more there . it be a fact that we be all horrified and shock by the impact of knife crime on our street on victim and their family . the life of so many young people be blight by the horror of knife crime , and we can absolutely come together on this issue . our heart go out to victim of knife crime and their family member . we never , ever want to experience the grief and anguish that they endure , but we can do more . I pay tribute to the many campaigner in this space ; we should stand with they to do much more . I be pleased to see that clause 13 and schedule 2 include new provision to strengthen the legal framework to prevent people take , share and broadcast intimate image — of course , I be refer to revenge porn . there be still loophole , and we want to do more to close they . it be a sickening offence that blight people ' s life . essex police investigate a very high - profile revenge porn case that lead to the successful prosecution of an offender , Stephen Bear . I pay tribute to Georgia Harrison , who be on television again just yesterday , both for her bravery in speak out so strongly and encourage other to come forward and for the many way in which she have champion this issue . our law have to be flexible and able to adapt to modern technology , so that victim be protect from the people who commit those dreadful crime . that bring I on to the measure in the Bill that cover the management of offender who have a record of coercive and control behaviour . clause 30 put those offender under the multi - agency public protection arrangement , which be very welcome . those measure build on a strong record of support victim of domestic abuse and violence , and it be vital that they be put into effective practice . have mention domestic abuse and violence , I want to touch on a really harrowing aspect of that issue : domestic homicide . a great deal of work have take place in the Home Office around domestic homicide review . I lead that work , and would like to see it strengthen so much more . we see too many loophole , and I be afraid local authority be not always follow up on domestic homicide review in the way we would like they to . a lot of good practice be already out there , with some local authority champion that work , work with multi - agency team and law enforcement . I also welcome the measure in clause 32 of the Bill to confiscate the proceed of crime , and serious crime prevention order , which be deal with in clause 34 and 37 . again , it be important that we constantly adapt and update our legislation , and that those measure be operationalise and implement in an effective way . I look forward to hear more detail from the Government about those area . I have already touch on the great work undertake to keep our street safe and fight crime , particularly the work of the police , who be on the frontline . I believe that we should back the police when it come to new technology , but also by stand by they as legislator , include in difficult time when the way in which they be police and operationalising and their professional judgment be under scrutiny , include public scrutiny . the police be the one who put themselves in harm ' s way to protect the public , and in recent week , we have see the pressure they face when it come to police in challenge circumstance . I pay tribute to the police — I have see they in very difficult situation . they be skilled professional , and the recruitment of 20 , 000 police officer do not come out of the ether . a great deal of detailed work take place around that recruitment , but also around retain they — how our law back they , and how new technology and funding enable they to do their job . our police officer be a credit to our country , and we should always show they our appreciation . they be diligent and maintain the high possible standard , as I have see myself . however , we have of course see some shocking and disturbing incident , inappropriate conduct and serious criminality involve police officer . we have debate that issue in this House many time , both during my time as Home Secretary and since I leave that position . it be right that chief constable and police commissioner across the country work to improve professional standard — I have have many discussion to that effect — but it be also important that we learn the lesson when thing go wrong . in particular , the measure in clause 73 relate to ethical policing and the duty of candour can build on the work that have take place through recent review . of course , inquiry be still take place , in particular the Sarah Everard inquiry that Dame Elish be work on . it be important that we maintain those standard go forward — we have a lot of work to do . I will now touch on some area in the Bill where I want to see great scrutiny to ensure that the measure in this legislation will make a difference and will go far in some quarter . one area that need reflection be clause 19 , which the Chair of the Justice Select Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , touch on already . that clause contain measure that would permit entry into private premise without a warrant . I be the first to recognise the desire outcome that the Government be seek : to support the police in tackle the issue of steal good by enable they to enter and search premise and to seize item without a warrant . we all want to see those responsible for those crime apprehend more quickly , and the good return to their rightful owner — that be absolutely right . too often , victim of crime be leave frustrate by the challenge involve in investigate those crime and get their good back . however , as the party of law and order that believe in safeguard the rule of law , I want to ensure that if this power be introduce , freedom and civil liberty be maintain and due process remain in place . there be the prospect that that power will be misuse , lead to miscarriage of justice . I share my right hon . friend ' s slight misgiving about that clause ; it will be interesting to hear the argument that the Minister make . obviously , there be already circumstance in law where , if the police have reasonable suspicion that a person have commit a crime , they be able to enter that person ' s premise in pursuit of they or the good they have supposedly steal . as such , I be unsure what more the clause will add ; it will be interesting to see where the Government take it . I share my right hon . friend ' s nervousness about breach a long - stand settlement with the british people about their privacy and the ability of the police to invade it . I thank my right hon . friend for his intervention . he and I spend a great deal of time discuss police power and what more we could do to strengthen they in relation to all aspect of criminality . the Bill rightly include some safeguard , but there be measure in place already . we need to understand how the propose power will work — how their use will be authorise , and in what circumstance . the Bill be at an early stage , and it will obviously be scrutinise in Committee , but there be question that need to be answer . we welcome those discussion . I will say a few word about the provision relate to nuisance begging and rough sleeping . I have listen with interest to the comment that have already be make about this issue on both side of the Chamber . member will recall that the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 contain provision to repeal the Vagrancy Act 1824 , which be nearly 200 year old . I and my colleague in the Government at the time work with all member of the House on that — it be right that the repeal take place — and we speak about the replacement legislation as it come forward . no one in the House would dispute that deal with homelessness be a difficult , sensitive and highly complex issue . I work with Government , local authority and charity on these issue as Home Secretary , as do my former ministerial colleague . in particular , we look to provide resource and the right kind of intervention to support those sleep rough on our street . project ADDER be bring in to deal with a lot of the addiction issue that be associate with homelessness . that be an incredibly successful programme that work with local authority . the Government must invest more in it and roll it out far . I recall work on this issue with my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) , who be then Policing Minister . he bring his London experience to the fore regard problem in central London . there be some specific case of begging and homelessness on Park Lane , and we be able to address those issue and deal with rough sleeping , which be cause a lot of problem in that community , by bring in the police and Westminster City Council and take some proactive measure . there be also some incredible charity do outreach work in London and across the community , in particular those that engage with rough sleeping . we should reflect on the fact that this issue involve some veteran with complex need , include the challenge pose by mental health issue , as well as some individual who need trauma - inform support . we need to invest time across different department and agency to tackle this problem , rather than look at it just in the context of a criminal justice Bill . it be right that the Government look at the legislation require to prevent rough sleeping , and it be also essential that they bring in measure from other Departments to provide the right help and support . it will be interesting to hear from Ministers about the work that will take place in this area and to hear some of their reassurance . I would like to touch on the point my hon . friend the Member for Gloucester ( Richard Graham ) make about spike . some work on that have take place already , and we have meet victim of this horrendous crime and campaigner against it . I have the privilege of work with the police on spike issue , and in fact with Assistant Chief Constable Maggie Blyth , who be bring in to support all the work on violence against woman and girl in particular . during my tenure as Home Secretary , we certainly introduce new restriction on some of the drug use for spike , and we bring in tough sentence . we also review whether a new and specific offence be need . one have not be bring forward , but it be subject to debate , and the Policing Minister be familiar with all this . as the Bill progress , it will be interesting to see where the Government take this issue , particularly because it be difficult to track , as we know from police datum . we should recognise that as a House , but we want to do more to prevent further victim of spike , and we need to come together to look at what practical measure can be put in place . I look forward to work with Ministers . we have a very strong team , who will be very diligent when it come to both build on previous measure and look to strengthen the Bill to bring in proper practical measure . no one would dispute that the country want robust action when it come to go after offender and punish those who do dreadful thing across our community , leave victim harm . it be right that the Government bring in this Bill and it be right that we work collectively to strengthen our law , but we do need practical measure to make sure that the legislation actually deliver for victim . we want few victim of crime , and we want to protect our community and strengthen our safety . I call the SNP spokesperson . it be a pleasure to follow the former Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , and I certainly agree with her remark on homelessness and veteran . I have a number of veteran charity in the Glasgow South West constituency , and they work with I and other elect representative to make sure that veteran get the support they need . she be absolutely right about their trauma and some of the issue they have to face , and I certainly hope that the Government listen to her remark . some of this Bill relate to Scotland . I will touch on those part , and then I may sound like an international observer make constructive comment , because many other part of the Bill affect England and Wales only . as the explanatory note say , the Bill affect and apply to Scotland in relation to " defence ; official secret ; terrorism ; telecommunication and wireless telegraphy ; financial and economic matter ; and consumer protection . " I hope that the Minister will be able to confirm that her official and Scottish Government official be engage on those issue to make sure that the Scottish Parliament will be ask to approve a legislative consent motion . there will be some grey area — consumer matter be often see as one — but perhaps the Minister , in sum up the debate , will talk about what work be be do with the Scottish Government . it do seem as though , instead of solve challenge relate to crime or alleviate push factor such as poverty — instead of tackle the cause of crime — the Government be intent on more incarceration . there be some welcome aspect of the Bill , such as measure to tackle organise gang and violent crime , remove template for illicit activity and tackle communication offence . there be 650 member of Parliament , and certainly my view from what I see on social medium be that the attack on all of we be get bad , so we do need to look at that . however , this be not just about we , of course ; there be many other communication offence . we certainly need to strengthen the law on revenge porn . the Home Secretary have have to leave for other business , but he serve with I on the all - party Youth Violence Commission before his elevation on to the ministerial ladder . I do hope that the Government will look at the SNP ' s continued call , which be also the call of the all - party Youth Violence Commission , for the implementation of a violence reduction unit equivalent to the Scottish Violence Reduction Unit , which focus on prevent violent crime through community and youth work , education and social service . in the Glasgow South West constituency , youth organisation play a vital role in make sure that we turn young people away from youth violence . there be a clear role for social service and education in the whole approach to ensure that we reduce violent crime , particularly for young people . the Scottish Government ' s annual figure show that the rate of homicide continue to fall . the number of homicide victim have show a downward trend since 2004 - 05 . in 2022 - 23 , there be 52 victim of homicide in Scotland , one few than in 2021 - 22 . however , the big reduction in the number of homicide victim be among those age between 16 and 24 : for the last five year , the average rate of homicide in that group be 10 per million of the population per year . I hope that the Government will look seriously at what happen in Scotland and learn from it by have a youth violence reduction unit for the UK and engage with social service , education and the great youth organisation out there right across these island engage young people . as the world be change its view on drug , the Government appear to be expand drug testing on arrest , and there be a concern that stop and search may disproportionately target those from an ethnic minority background . in the year end 31 March 2022 , there be 516 , 684 stop and search in England and Wales . for 20 % of those , the person ' s ethnicity be not know or not record . there be 8 . 7 stop and search for every 1 , 000 people , but there be 27 . 2 stop and search for every 1 , 000 black people compare with 5 . 6 for every 1 , 000 white people . I think there be a concern there and I hope the Government will look at it . it do look as though the black , asian and minority ethnic community be be discriminate against . in tackle antisocial behaviour , we really do need to look at provision that move we away from the theory that homelessness be some sort of lifestyle choice . the immediate predecessor of the Home Secretary , the right hon . and learn Member for Fareham ( Suella Braverman ) , be wrong - head in weaken modern slavery law that target organise begging in the street and then suggest that people live in tent be some sort of lifestyle choice . I do not think I be the only one to find that comment completely and utterly ludicrous . the Bill enshrine that , " an authorised person may give a nuisance beg direction to a person appear to be age 18 or over if satisfied on reasonable ground that the person be engage , have engage , or be likely to engage , in nuisance begging . " again there seem to be a complete mismatch of Government priority . instead of scrap section 21 , which allow landlord to evict tenant who be not on fix - term contract without give a reason in England and Wales , the Government will criminalise begging , which show their warped priority . between 2018 and 2022 , nearly 4 , 000 people be arrest under vagrancy law for sleep rough or beg . begging be legal in Scotland unless it be deem to be aggressive . accord to campaigner , begging have become a common sight , but steep fine and criminal charge do not tackle its root cause . crisis chief executive Matt Downie have say : " while genuine anti - social behaviour must be address , we know that engage people in support service be much more effective at end their homelessness for good " , and he continue : " above all , no one should be punish just for have no home . " in tackle antisocial behaviour , the Government appear to be reheat a ban on zombie knife , which successive home Secretaries since 2016 have try and fail to ban the manufacture , sale and importation of . the Government must get this right . under the Offensive Weapons Act 2019 offender with ban firearm can be jail for up to 10 year , while those find with other weapon can be jail for up to six month and fine . under current rule , the possession of machete and zombie knife be not outlawed unless they feature image or word that suggest they could be use for violence . this mean that if police find weapon in someone ' s home , they can not seize they even if they believe they will be use to commit a crime . I hope the Government will tidy up the legislation so that from now on there will be a criminal offence of possession of a bladed article with the intent to cause harm . the Tories appear to be prioritise more freedom of movement right for prisoner than for any other UK citizen . british prisoner have more right to stay in Europe than UK citizen currently do , with a 90 - day maximum limit post - Brexit and a visa and / or residence permit require thereafter . the UK Government say the plan would only be undertake if the " facility , regime and rehabilitation provide meet british standard . " transfer prisoner engage in active legal proceeding in the UK , such as those appeal against their sentence , risk violate article 6 of the european convention on human right guarantee the right to a fair trial , as enshrine in the Human Rights Act 1998 . there be also concern about violate article 8 on the right to a family life due to the difficulty in ensure family visit for inmate be keep overseas , as well as fear over the general quality of treatment . the Government have accept that the scheme could be costly , not least because taxpayer may have to pay for family to visit relative in overseas jail and would only be pursue if it represent value for money . the Government point to similar practice by other country but there be still concern . question remain over how the Government could prove that their value and legal obligation be uphold in another territory . that be an important point which I hope the Minister will address in the closing remark . if prisoner do not volunteer or consent to be transfer overseas , principle of procedural fairness could be violate that encourage prisoner to be able to share their side of the argument and have that consider in decision make about they , such as on good behaviour for parole . in conclude , I associate myself with the remark of the shadow Home Secretary on shop worker . Daniel Johnson , a Labour Member of the Scottish Parliament , have a private member ' s Bill that go through the Scottish Parliament with support from the Scottish Government , and I hope the UK Government will listen and look to work constructively on any amendment that protect shop worker . what happen in Scotland be build by persuasion and consensus and I hope the UK Government will listen , because if they do shop worker across these island will be very grateful . I be grateful to have the opportunity to speak about this very important Bill , and it be of course a pleasure to follow Scottish National party spokesman the hon . member for Glasgow South West ( Chris Stephens ) . there be some very positive aspect to the Bill that be welcome . tackle violence against woman and girl , give power to law enforcement agency to respond to technological change , and strengthen the law to protect the public from violence and intimidation be much - need measure that will certainly reassure my constituent . there be community across my constituency that have be the victim of appalling antisocial behaviour in recent year . the police and local council be do what they can to protect these community with the application and implementation of community protection notice and then public space protection order , but one challenge that the police have face be that many of the perpetrator of antisocial behaviour be under 16 . lower the age of a CPN to 10 will help the police in tackle antisocial behaviour and be much appreciated . however , I be not comfortable with part of this Bill — the last Criminal Justice Bill before the next election — and there be also thing that be miss from it . I shall be as brief as possible . I apologise to those who have provide some excellent information , and I will probably do they a disservice as a consequence . I will also be blunt , as there be no other way of say this , and I find myself be slightly firm on this than the shadow Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford ( Yvette Cooper ) : I do not work as a Minister and as a Back Bencher on the repeal of the Vagrancy Act , only to see rough sleeping criminalise again via a different piece of legislation . I get that there be an issue with aggressive begging . we on the ministerial taskforce , which my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) be very much a part of , be always aware of that . there be always a view that other piece of legislation , such as the exist antisocial behaviour legislation , could cope with aggressive begging be transfer in . at no point do we , either as a taskforce or as part of the Vagrancy Act repeal , hear evidence about aggressive rough sleeping . rough sleeper require holistic support . they often have extremely complex need , include significant mental health need . visibility may be uncomfortable for many , but it also enable support worker from the many brilliant charity and local authority to reach out to they . issuing prevention notice do nothing to solve the problem , but push they far away from the solution . sentencing they to prison create nothing more than extra problem for the person and the creak prison estate . what the hon . Lady be say be incredibly powerful , and I wholeheartedly agree with she . do she agree that one challenge we face be that we have a homelessness crisis ? in my local area , our brilliant night shelter be already full , and the people work with the homeless would find it hard to help they if they have a criminal record . it would be counter - productive to the very good work we all know need to happen to prevent homelessness so that it be one night only . I completely agree with the hon . Lady . People who find themselves sleep rough on the street be in a desperate situation , and the provision in the Bill will do nothing to help they . our local authority , which often get a bad rap for the consequence of rough sleeping , have many officer do brilliant work in try to support rough sleeper . we need a holistic approach to tackle that issue . we do not need to criminalise they through these provision , some of which , by the way , be laughable , respectfully . we have the idea that a prevention notice can be serve to a rough sleeper at their last know address in writing . I be not entirely sure why that provision be even in there . the point be that we need to be support people who be rough sleeping . I get that there be an issue with aggressive begging . in fact , various mayor across our metropolitan city have say that , but rough sleeping do not need to be criminalise . we get rid of that as part of the Vagrancy Act repeal , which be support by the Government . all we be do be bring that criminalisation in by the back door . I will support the Bill on Second Reading because of the other measure , but I strongly urge the Government to remove the clause on nuisance rough sleeping from the Bill . if not , I will certainly lend my name to amendment to remove those clause from the Bill , on which I hope I would get cross - party support as a consequence . there be other way of deal with rough sleeping , rather than criminalise people . the Bill also contain welcome measure to improve public confidence in police after significant failing within force to identify and investigate criminal behaviour . those be welcome , give the shocking high - profile case of recent year , but I suggest we reflect on how we protect good officer who do their job in challenging and fast - move situation from prosecution . the Times on Saturday report on the prosecution of pc Paul Fisher , who crash en route to south London , where Sudesh Amman , a convict terrorist , have stab two member of the public . the Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Mark Rowley say that it " undermine the confidence of all officer use their power to keep the public safe . " he be spot on . a constituent of mine — a frontline Metropolitan police dog handler — be sentence today have be find guilty of actual bodily harm after apprehend a dangerous criminal , who be subsequently sentence to 14 month in prison . at the time , he be hail " brave " and a " hero " . a complaint make from prison be dismiss by every level of the internal standard process , and it be only when the prisoner appeal again that it end up in court , with the shocking guilty verdict . my constituent ' s 21 year of exemplary service be in tatter due to a system that actively work against frontline officer and instead advocate for passive policing . we do need to improve standard of police across our force , but , at the same time , we need to protect those officer who be do their job . I turn to issue that would be helpful inclusion in the Bill . this morning , the first part of the inquiry into the depraved act of David Fuller in the mortuary of the Maidstone and Tunbridge Wells NHS Trust be publish . the family of the victim of Fuller be always at the front of our mind when we , the mp whose constituency be cover by the trust and where many of they live , be inform about the inquiry . we collectively agree that the Government , the NHS and the trust should accept and act on the recommendation of Sir Jonathan ' s report without delay . Fuller will rightly serve the rest of his life in prison for the heinous crime he commit , but there be two additional aspect of his crime that the Government must also act on . first , the woefully short maximum sentence of two year for anyone find guilty of the sexual assault of a dead body need to be substantially increase to at least 10 year , as per Baroness Noakes ' s amendment to the previous Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Bill . secondly , the current legislation apply only to the sexual assault of a dead body that involve penetration . give the sensitivity of this matter , and on this day when coincidently the inquiry publish its report and we be debate the Bill , I do not want to go into further detail , but , in short , non - penetrative sexual assault of a dead body be not include under exist legislation , and that need to be change . I and my right hon . friend the Member for Tunbridge Wells ( Greg Clark ) , who be currently abroad on Government business , will table an amendment to the Bill to that end . I truly hope that we will never see such depravity again , but in memory of those who be victim of Fuller ' s crime , we must ensure that the offence cover all act of assault and that sentence be increase significantly . I turn to an entirely different point . I be surprised not to see in the Bill a specific offence of tailgating at football match . the House will have see Baroness Casey ' s report follow the violence at the Euro 2020 final . tailgating cause significant operational , safety and security problem for major event at Wembley stadium as well as other football match across the country — I witness that as I experience the surge of those illegally attempt entry to Wembley as I queue to get into the final . I understand that the Home Office agree with the recommendation for a specific offence and that King ' s counsel have recommend to the fa that that can be do through either an update to the Football ( Offences ) Act 1991 via statutory instrument , or add it to the Bill . give that the Bill be in front of we , it feel like a miss opportunity not to include that offence in it , so I will happily table an amendment to ensure that it be in place long before we host Euro 2028 . finally , there be one other point that I be surprised not to see in the Bill . there be many reason for we to be disappoint that the Government drop the keep animal Bill , but one particular reason , which be relevant to this Bill , be that it would have introduce a specific pet abduction offence . give that there be no debate about the harm and impact of pet theft , I be surprised not to see the offence include in this already wide - range bill . there have be an increase in pet theft , and the Government ' s pet theft taskforce believe that pet owner should not live in fear of this cruel crime . since this be in our manifesto , I hope the Government will either table an amendment or support a Back Benchers ' amendment that create a stand - alone offence and bring reassurance to the million of pet owner across the country . I appreciate that I have raise a varied list of point , and that other wish to speak and I be run out of time . in summary , this be an important Bill — our last Criminal Justice Bill before the election . there be thing in it that we need to do . there be thing in it that we do not need to do . there be still thing that we need to put into it . fortunately , we have an excellent ministerial team responsible for the Bill . I look forward to work with they as it progress through Parliament . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for call I to speak on the second reading of the Criminal Justice Bill . it be always a great pleasure to follow the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tracey Crouch ) , who make a powerful speech . she speak for many in Chamber when say that there be thing in the Bill that should not be there and thing that should be that we do not have yet . I hope that we will see some improvement in Committee . I refer back to the point make by the previous Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , on spike . that be an ongoing issue — the hon . member for Gloucester ( Richard Graham ) be in his place , and he have do an enormous amount of work on it . the Home Affairs Committee carry out an inquiry and produce a report in which we be clear that we would like a specific offence of spike to be introduce . we be also conscious of how important it be to work on prevention . that be ongoing work , and I be hopeful that we might see some progress from the Home Office in the come month . it will be interesting if we get to the point where we need to table amendment to introduce that specific offence . another Session , another Home Office Bill . as the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford say , it be probably the last before the general election . I want to focus on the issue that the Home Affairs Committee have consider in some detail in our recent inquiry . a few week ago we publish our police priority inquiry , and before that a report on police misconduct . I want to look specifically at the clause relate to police . it be important to pay tribute to our police force and officer for their work day in , day out , deal with very difficult circumstance . however , we all know and accept that , in recent year , policing have have far too many scandal . far too many police force have go into special measure , and there have be a real exposure of the racist , sexist and homophobic culture in many of our police force . we must be mindful of the powerful report by Dame Louise Casey this year on the Metropolitan police . the Committee have be conscious of her recommendation in that report and the need for action from the Home Office and the Mayor of London . I turn to clause 73 , which I welcome in principle . it be the requirement that the College of Policing issue a code of practice on ethical policing . the College of Policing already publish a code of ethic , so I assume from the drafting of the clause that the new code of practice rely on a trickle - down effect from chief officer , rather than be — as we all think it would be — a general duty for all officer at all rank to be open and honest with the public when mistake be make . the importance of leadership in drive and improve culture be recognise in our policing report , but the public be entitle to expect openness and honesty from officer at all level . the creation of a less defensive culture across police be necessary to rebuild public trust and confidence in the police . the right hon . Lady be make a powerful speech and have concentrate on the ethic of police in a constructive way . the Government be introduce the duty of candour , which we welcome , although there have to be concern about how that fit within the overall structure of the language of ethical policing , which be important . she will be familiar with the work of the College of Policing and of his Majesty ' s inspectorate of constabulary and fire and rescue service and its chief inspector , former police constable Andy Cooke , who have be do a great deal of work on this . it have to be deliverable . we be learn lesson from Hillsborough and other report in the past , but we need specific about what this mean in practice . I be very grateful to the right hon . Lady , who speak with great knowledge about this area and about how legislation have to be deliverable . it have to work for every officer at every level in all our police force , so there be a job of work to be do . I hope that in Committee the information on how it will all fit together will become clear . the Home Office have say that the duty will filter down to all officer . the concern of the Home Affairs Committee be that if we be really serious about change police culture we need more than just a hope that thing will cascade down . we need clear responsibility and clear duty . clause 74 give chief officer a statutory right to appeal to a police appeal tribunal against a disciplinary decision . I would like to highlight again that the Home Affairs Committee hear , on several occasion , that simply give chief constable more power of appeal will not solve the underlying problem of the initial quality of investigation or even the confusion over the definition of misconduct . that have prove very problematic in deal with disciplinary case , so more clarity on that be need . the Bill will allow the Secretary of State to enable appeal by police and crime commissioner in limited circumstance where the chief constable be the officer subject to a misconduct decision . the Home Affairs Committee have previously question whether extend right to challenge misconduct hear outcome in general to police and crime commissioner would create a conflict of interest for they . the Committee be concerned that give pcc extra power to challenge individual misconduct hear outcome could encourage they to stray into operational decision making , and that the often party political and elect nature of their post could be see to influence their decision . the Committee conclude that PCCs should drive systematic improvement in local force , for example by take step to assure themselves that misconduct and competence process be fit for purpose , rather than intervene in individual case . at this point , I want to make a comment about something that be not in the Bill , but which the Committee would have like to have see in it . the Independent Office for Police Conduct have , very unusually for such an organisation , one post for the role of chief executive and chair . the Committee have be concern about that for some time , and a review of the structure of the IOPC be ongoing . separate out those two very important role would be an important part of the reform of the IOPC that be perhaps still need , and that be not in the Bill . clause 15 to 17 expand police power to test suspect in police detention for drug . I would be really grateful if the Minister be able to confirm what resourcing will be put in to ensure that any increase in those testing positive for the extended range of drug will be match by the necessary diversion service . I think we all want the Government ' s 10 - year drug strategy to meet its aim and objective , but if it be to do that we must be clear that much more work need to happen . as the Committee set out in its recent report on drug , we must have the right intervention in place to help people break away from the terrible cycle of addiction and criminality that drug addiction can cause . they need the right support to let they deal with addiction , but they also need psychosocial support and intervention to deal with the underlie trauma that may have lead they to drug in the first place . I welcome the measure in clause 1 to 3 , include the creation of a new offence to well enable law enforcement agency to prove illicit use of pill press . that be very welcome , and it too be propose in our drug report . however , I hope that the Government might make an announcement about a roll - out of naloxone to all police force . in Scotland it be carry by all police officer , and it play an important part in save the life of people who have take an overdose . clause 19 deal with extend the power of the police in respect of acquisitive crime . there be some important unanswered question here . first , can the Minister provide example of what might constitute " reasonable ground " for believe that good be steal and on the specify premise ? secondly , how confident be she that the new power to enter any premise without a warrant will be use proportionately ? thirdly , give that force be commit to follow " all reasonable line of enquiry " in the case of every crime , may I ask how they can be adequately resource to undertake what they have promise to do ? there be a couple of other measure , recommend by the Select Committee in the past , that I hope would be in the Bill . the first involve retail crime . we make a very specific recommendation that certain offence be create . a few week ago , the manager of my local Co - op be show I the system that it have on its CCTV . while I be at the back of the store , someone come in , open the door of the fridge , scoop out all the chicken leg and thigh and other kind of meat , and then leave . accord to those at the Co - op , the crime that they see the most be organise crime . it be not a case of someone steal a loaf of bread or some sandwich ; people be go into store and steal every day , and that need to be address . this issue have already be raise , but I still do not understand why each and every one of our police force — rather than just two third of they — do not have specialised unit deal with rape and serious sexual assault , when all the evidence make it clear that what be need be specialist investigation of those very serious crime . there be another provision that be not in the Bill and ought to be , in the light of recent disturbing and tragic event . I have mention several time in the Chamber that woman can still face prosecution under section 58 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 if they end a pregnancy after the legal time limit . in 1861 Queen Victoria be on the throne , Charles Dickens be write " Great Expectations " , woman could not vote or be member of Parliament , and the age of consent be 12 . the maximum penalty under section 58 be life imprisonment . between 1861 and November 2022 , just three woman be convict of have an illegal abortion , but let we make no mistake : this not a defunct piece of legislation quietly gather dust on the shelf . since December 2022 one woman have be convict for a late termination , and six woman be await trial . we also know that police officer have investigate at least 52 woman over the past eight year on the basis of suspicion that abortion have take place after the legal limit . abortion care provider also report a stark increase in information request from the police . for example , after Hampshire police find a human placenta in woodland in Southampton over the summer , it contact the British Pregnancy Advisory Service and ask for detail of anyone who have be see at a clinic but turn away because they be past the time limit at which they could seek an abortion . that request be make without any court order . early this year , it be report that distressed woman who have have miscarriage be be test for abortion drug by the police . abortion provider have warn that woman suspect of illegal abortion have be push into have these test while in hospital , with no legal representation and without their proper consent be obtain . no woman should be pursue by the police for end her pregnancy . those call for the threat of criminal prosecution relate to abortion to be lift from woman include the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists , the Royal College of Midwives , the Faculty of Sexual and Reproductive Health , the British Pregnancy Advisory Service and Rape Crisis England & Wales . that be why I will be table a new clause to remove woman from the criminal law relate to abortion . let I be very clear with everybody : this be a very limited and highly targeted amendment . it would not change any law regard the provision of abortion service within a healthcare set in England and Wales . the abortion time limit , the legal ground for abortion and the requirement for two doctor ' approval would all stay as they be . what the amendment would do be usher in an end to woman be put in jail for have an abortion , and in 2023 , I hope that we can all come together and agree on that course of action . it be a great pleasure to follow the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) . she know that I very much agree with the sentiment that she have just express around the criminalisation of woman who be in one of the most difficult situation . in year go by , people who take their own life be subject to the criminal law . we have see the error of our way and change the law on that , and I hope that we will on this too . there be many good thing in this Bill , and we have hear from the Home Secretary that there be more good thing to follow , particularly the legal duty to report child sexual abuse and the prohibiting of sex offender from change their name . the hon . member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) have have a great deal to do with those measure and she certainly have my fulsome thank for all the work she have do on they . these be important change , and the fact that the Government have listen demonstrate not only the strength of her argument but the strength of our ministerial team . there be nothing more corrosive than the fear of crime , and we therefore have to be careful in how we use language to frame this debate . at the beginning of today ' s debate , there be way too many statistic be bandy around for my liking , so I be go to start my comment with one fact . I be go to quote Mark Twain , but I be not sure that the word " lie " be acceptable parliamentary language , so I will not talk about lie and statistic ; I will just talk about fact . one of the most important fact , and one that will help to stop an unnecessary fear of crime , be that this Government have put in place 20 , 000 more police officer . we now have over 149 , 000 police officer in England and Wales and the fact be that that be the high number on record . that be unequivocal . I would like to pay tribute to my local constabulary , Hampshire police , and particularly to my police and crime commissioner , Donna Jones , because they have go above and beyond what the Government ask for , which be around 500 new officer in Hampshire . More than 600 new officer have be recruit to Hampshire . those be fact , not statistic , so hopefully we can all agree on they . it be important that we do not use inflammatory language when it come to crime , because people become unnecessarily concerned . I see that on the doorstep when people start talk about their fear of burglary , whereas the Home Secretary have rightly say that burglary rate have fall dramatically . there be many other sort of crime that we should be concern about , so let we not make our resident concern about thing that have fall dramatically . as my right hon . Friend say , this Bill demonstrate the constantly change shape of crime . People find new unacceptable way to benefit from other , and we have to make sure they become illegal . follow some very high - profile case , of which we be all aware , I very much welcome the introduction of a broad offence of encourage or assist serious self - harm . I also welcome the new aggravating factor that increase the seriousness of child sex offence where there be groom , and of murder connect with the end of a relationship . there be important change to be make . there will be a duty on the College of Policing to issue a code of practice on ethical policing , which be particularly important for those of we who be proximate to the Met police — my constituency almost neighbour the Met . there be power for the court to order the attendance of offender at sentencing hearing , and to punish they if they do not attend — again , this follow some very high - profile case . obviously , refuse to attend a sentencing hearing can cause huge distress to family . the Bill also have measure on knife crime . Basingstoke be a county - line town , as we be a gateway to Hampshire . we have see some horrific knife crime involve young people , often from south London , and I be not surprised to see that knife account for more than 40 % of homicide in the last year . the Government have introduce measure to increase the maximum penalty and to criminalise the intent to cause fear of violence , and these be all thing that need to be well deal with in law . my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tracey Crouch ) speak about the antisocial behaviour provision , which will introduce new power to lower the age limit of community protection notice to cover young perpetrator age 10 or above . it be sad that I recognise the measure ' s importance , because my local police have talk to I about people under the age of 16 who be create appalling nuisance and antisocial behaviour in my community . extend community protection notice to that young age group , and increase the upper limit of fix penalty notice , will help to give the police the tool they need to deal with the real crime in our community . I will now comment on two particular element of the Bill , before suggest a couple more that the Minister may want to think about . although I understand the comment of my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford , I think the measure on nuisance begging and rough sleeping will be more warmly receive in my community than she suggest , because organise beg in our town centre , often by criminal gang , and beg that cause a nuisance around shop and cash machine be a concern not only to resident but to retailer and business owner . it be important that we have measure in place to deal with these issue as robustly as possible , but — and this be an important but — they need to go hand in hand with effective measure to make sure we do not simply move the problem of rough sleeping either into our prison or into other community . we run a very effective programme in Basingstoke under the then conservative administration that I hope the current independent administration will continue . it be start by then Councillor Terri Reid , who work with Julian House , a well - know charity that , through its outreach work , support rough sleeper into accommodation and into the help they need . if the Minister ' s intention with this Bill be to marry together these provision with effective support , I can see how it might work . this measure work in my constituency because the money that be give by the Government to the upper tier authority be passporte down to the low tier one , and it could then work much close to the community and to the problem , make sure that we have effective plan in place . the number of people now homeless in my community be extremely small indeed . I want to put on the record , for clarity , that the Bill contain separate provision to deal with nuisance begging and with nuisance rough sleeping . Nuisance begging be absolutely an issue that blight community , and people from across the House will agree that the provision from clause 38 to clause 50 be definitely necessary — the question be whether that need to be do in this Bill . Nuisance rough sleeping be address from clause 51 and it be entirely separate . the criminalisation of the rough sleeper be the issue here , not the nuisance begging , which be deal with under entirely separate provision . let I confirm that I be talk about rough sleeping . the antisocial behaviour action plan , which be cite in the explanatory note , to provide the support that be need be vague , and I hope that the Minister will reassure we that far more support will be give to local authority if these measure come through , to make sure that they have effective provision in place . I will speed up , Mr Speaker . the provision in the Bill on intimate image abuse relate directly to the Law Commission ' s work in this area . again , I pay tribute to it for bring forward those provision and to the Government for take they up . they will start to complete the necessary legislation to protect individual from intimate image abuse online . to have an intimate image publish online without one ' s consent be akin to rape and it be now be deal with in the criminal law , for which the Government be to be applaud . I also thank Professor Clare McGlynn , at Durham University , who have do so much work in make sure that these provision be as they should be . there be a couple of issue where the Government might consider add provision into the Bill . I have already raise the first of those with the Home Secretary in my intervention : non - consensual intimate image not be remove online , even though they may have be part of a criminal case where somebody be now in jail . there be mechanism for we to be able to remove these image , but it sound as though some people be not remove they and that the law may need to be tighten far . finally , the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North have suggest that this Bill may be a place to decriminalise abortion for woman . we will come later on , perhaps in the remain stage , to whether this Bill be the right place to do that , when there be perhaps not sufficient time to go through all the detail . if that be to be the case , I gently suggest that perhaps the Government will want to look again at my sentencing guideline Bill so that we make sure we continue to take incremental step to modernise the way woman be treat in the law on abortion . we have have provision on buffer zone and telemedicine , and sentencing could well be a way in which we could make sure that woman be start to be treat in the way they should be : as patient and not as criminal when it come to abortion . this Bill present a precious opportunity to address some of the big problem that exist within our justice system . despite this Bill make some progress on the sentencing of serious offender , it be frustrating that the Government be seemingly refuse to use it to fix those fundamental problem . I hope I be wrong or , at the very least , that this be just a starting point and the Bill will be improve during its passage through both Houses . I commend all the recommendation that hon . member have make today . let I start with the positive . I be genuinely relieved that the Government have finally introduce legislation on the non - consensual sharing of intimate image . the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children have report that nearly a quarter of girl who have take a nude photo have have their image send to someone else online without their permission . I and many other have call repeatedly for action on this issue . I pay tribute to the right hon . member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) for her persistent work and successful campaigning , and I assure the Minister that she will continue campaign until the law properly reflect what be need . I be also supportive of increase power to ensure that offender attend their own sentencing hearing . sentencing should be a moment of justice for victim and family . for abuser and perpetrator to refuse to take the stand be morally wrong , as it deny closure to those they have harm . the Government must ensure that the measure be balance , but their priority should be to ensure that victim receive the outcome they need . now for the " need improvement " section . I welcome clause 23 , which make groom an aggravate factor when an offender be be sentence for child sexual abuse . I hope victim will begin to feel that the jail time that their abuser receive reflect the devastation that the crime cause . however , this be just one step in sentencing . Grooming be already an offence — I know that because I have already change the law on it . if the Government genuinely want more prosecution , they need to invest in our police and court , which have be utterly decimate in the last 13 year . introduce an aggravate factor to an offence that be already on the statute book will not get sentence mete out unless we have the resource to make that happen . likewise , I welcome the principle of mandatory reporting of child sexual abuse , but unless there be fully fund police , investigative and criminal justice service , just report it become a tick - box exercise ; it will make people feel that they have do their duty , but there will be no back office to actually prosecute the people carry out the abuse . I worry that the measure be see as an easy solution rather than get into the detail . similarly , require judge to consider the end of a relationship as an aggravating factor in murder case be a good step , but we should go far . we need recognition of something that be the precursor to the murder of many woman : stalk . why not take the opportunity that the Bill present to address that ? I continue to call on the Government to take stalking as seriously as other form of violence . the Minister can use the Bill to prevent murder by roll out harsh sentence for the factor that lead up to they . now for the bad , I be afraid . I be genuinely outraged that the Government be take such draconian step towards criminalise rough sleeping . I support 100 % the comment make by the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tracey Crouch ) . I be genuinely baffle why the Bill treat homelessness as a " nuisance " rather than provide the help that homeless people clearly need . during the pandemic , the Government do amazing work get every rough sleeper off the street . why be they criminalise they now ? Crisis have state that anyone who be judge to look as though they be go to sleep rough and be capable of cause a nuisance could fall foul of the Bill . that be not how we make good law . no one would voluntarily choose to sleep on the street or in a tent . People do it because they be desperate . they need support , not to be criminalise , especially when our criminal justice system be already at break point . in reality , the police will take they off the street and put they in a cell for a night , and then they will be back out again the next morning . that be not a solution . will the Minister work with her colleague on housing rough sleeper and provide they with a long - term route out of poverty , rather than criminalise they ? this Bill be a miss opportunity for some of the change that be need in the justice system . I be keen to support my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Camberwell and Peckham ( Ms Harman ) in amend the Bill to remove parental responsibility from all those convict of sexual offence against child . we must also ensure that the Bill repeal the ridiculous , archaic law that criminalise people when it be expressly not in the public interest to do so . I give my support to the comment of my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) and to what I believe will be the comment of my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) , because woman in 2023 should not be punish in criminal law for access abortion . I will be support the amendment that I believe they will be table to drag our law out of the 19th century and into the 21st century , where woman be entitle to support when make choice about their reproductive health . finally , I be surprised , relieve and delight that the Home Secretary have announce that he will be adopt my legislation to prevent register sex offender from change their name by deed poll . I pay tribute to Della for her campaign and to the Safeguarding Alliance , which have be work for year alongside I and other campaigner to make minister understand both the scale of this problem and the threat that it present . as I be come down to London on Monday , I see in the Metro a report of a teacher who have a relationship with a 15 - year - old . he go to jail for three year because of it . he have now come out and change his name , and he be work in a pop band . I believe that that present a very real risk to other 15 - year - old . I really hope that the Minister will work with I and other to get the legislation right quickly , in order to protect everyone . there be provision in the Bill that be welcome , while other highlight weakness and area that need to change . the issue be that the Government be bring forward individual measure , rather than focus on the much big problem — the lack of join - up thinking around our justice system . there be much missing from the Bill that would ensure that the public be safe and that victim receive the justice that they need , and I do hope the Minister address that . the Conservatives can claim that they be tough on criminal , but when it come to the practicality of keep the public safe from know offender , I be sadden that , as it stand , this Bill be a miss opportunity . please , Minister , do not just let this be pr and puff ; let it be something that everybody can be proud of . I rise to support the Bill , which will help to make our constituent safe , include by impose tough sentence ; impose new measure to fight knife crime , include zombie knife ; tackle violence against woman and girl ; and give law enforcement agency the power that they need to respond to change technology . in the previous Session , we legislate to ensure that the most serious offender serve long in prison . through this Bill , we will impose tough sentence for child sex offence by make groom an aggravating factor , and implement recommendation by introduce an aggravate factor for murder at the end of a relationship . I wish to highlight the importance of judge impose sentence that reflect the intent of this House . in 2022 , we legislate to increase the maximum sentence for cause death by dangerous driving , yet sentence continue to be too short . the mum , sister and stepfather of my constituent Summer Mace be kill in an appalling incident , but the offender get a sentence of only 10 and a half year and could be out after seven year . Ministers and Parliament need to make sure that the sentencing guideline actually do what we legislate for . turn to some of the specific in the Bill , I particularly welcome the new power in clause 22 to allow judge to compel offender to attend sentencing hearing , rather than their hiding away in their cell to avoid victim or their family and the powerful victim statement that be make . that abuse the victim and their family all over again . this be something that I support and campaign for after a case in my North West Norfolk constituency where an offender refuse to attend the sentencing hearing when he be find guilty of sexual assault of a girl under the age of 13 , and of intimidate a witness . indeed , he fail to attend most of the trial . the explicit statement that reasonable force can be use by the police and escort officer staff will ensure that the power to make defendant appear in court be very clear . however , as it be currently draft , that provision apply only to offender await sentencing for an offence for which a life sentence must or may be impose . that would not address the case from my constituency , as the maximum sentence for that sexual offence be 14 year . abuse a child be an incredibly serious offence . I therefore urge the Minister and the Home Secretary to look at the provision again and expand the range of offence to which it apply , because it be important for all victim that offender face justice . it be important that there be punishment if the requirement be breach and that , where the new power can not be use — for example , if someone be so violent or disruptive that it be not possible — there will be an additional custodial sentence of up to two year . I fully support that . one issue I want to raise relate to bail . I hope Ministers will consider , through this Bill , amend the Bail Act 1976 to allow the imposition of electronic monitoring in police bail condition . in an Adjournment debate that I lead on behalf of my constituent on the dangerous driving case I mention and unduly lenient sentence , I speak about the offender , who in June 2023 be sentence for three count of cause death by dangerous driving . at the time of the crash , he be on police bail for a drive offence and be subject to a curfew . he also have several previous conviction for motor offence . currently , section 3 of the Bail Act allow court to impose electronic monitoring as a condition of bail , but electronic monitoring be not permit under the condition of police bail . when that offender break his curfew and set out that night to drive , there be no electronic monitoring in place . who know whether , if it have be in place , that tragedy might have be avoid ? one of the change that my constituent and her family be campaign for be to allow electronic tagging in case of police bail . their petition in support of the change be back by more than 13 , 000 people . I ask the Home Office to look at whether it can use this Bill to introduce a change to help to reduce the likelihood of other offender commit such appalling act . there be many measure in the Bill that I support . those to tackle the scourge of fraud be very welcome , give that that be the most common crime and one that cause true misery for our constituent , especially for vulnerable and elderly people . in particular , ban SIM farm , which be use by criminal to send thousand of scam text at once , will help to protect people , together with the initiative be take by mobile network . of course , it be sensible that the Government can respond to development by update the list of ban technology and article through secondary legislation , rather than have to wait for another criminal justice Bill — although they do come round rather frequently . the Bill include new power to help make our community safe , to cut serious crime and to tackle antisocial behaviour . however , I have outline specific improvement that I would like , and I hope that Ministers will consider they carefully and bring they forward as the Bill continue its passage . there be a number of measure in the Bill that we can all agree be very welcome , and I want to recognise that . however , there be a wide challenge for we all when we see such a deconstruction of our criminal justice system , give that parliamentary time be so rare and precious . be we do everything we can do through this Bill to tackle the challenge in our constituency ? I be sad that the Home Secretary be not here . his approach to talk about knife crime will not go down well in my constituency . we be face an epidemic of knife crime in our community . for many of my resident it be a sign of real concern that they see a lack not only of the police they want , but of the social fabric that we need , both to tackle knife crime and to prevent it in the first place . I be also sorry that our SNP colleague , the hon . member for Glasgow South West ( Chris Stephens ) , be not in his place . he talk about the Glasgow model . I would go far than a public health model ; I would go for an education model to try to prevent these issue in the first place . I ask Ministers to look again at what more we can do to tackle knife crime . it have rise substantially and I be afraid that my local police consistently seem stretch to the point where they can not do the work I know they want to do . I put on record my gratitude to the police for the work they be attempt to do , but we all know it be not enough . the same be true for antisocial behaviour . my office have take to mapping out the many area where we know there be persistent drug dealing , in the hope that at some point we might be able to use that information to effect change and progress . we hear from resident that , even when they report thing and try to do everything we tell they to do to stop those problem , nothing change . I look at the Bill but do not see the measure that will help they with antisocial behaviour . I be sorry that the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tracey Crouch ) be not in her seat because I absolutely agree with what she say about rough sleeping . there be a rough - sleep epidemic in my local community . criminalise it — separately from beg — will not help we to deal with it , and , indeed , could be counter - productive . I hope that , as the Bill progress , we recognise the overwhelming cry from those in our brilliant night shelter , who work on the ground to tackle rough sleeping , about how counter - productive that would be . I put on record my gratitude for the work of Daniel Johnson , a Labour / Co - op MSP , on tackle violence against shopworker . my Front - Bench colleague , my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham North ( Alex Norris ) , have do brilliant work on that in this Parliament . we have a model for what work . we know that our shopworker deserve well ; they be try to help we . I hope that we can finally agree that such legislation be need . in an outpouring of collegiality , let I also agree with everything that my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) say , as well as with my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) , who be a powerhouse of change in this place , as she have prove yet again . I agree with the case make by my right hon . friend about the decriminalisation of abortion . I will focus on that in my speech because I will also table an amendment on that matter . I will set out why I believe we can take that way forward . I think there be grow agreement that the issue need to be address . indeed , on 15 June , when face again with the evidence of the continue prosecution , criminalisation and incarceration of woman for have abortion , the Minister of State , Ministry of Justice , the right hon . member for Charnwood ( Edward Argar ) , challenge we by say that it be up to this place to do something about that if it have a problem with it , particularly the difference now between the experience of woman in Northern Ireland and woman in England and Wales . he try to argue that the House make a decision know that it would create a different regime for access to abortion in Northern Ireland . I disagree . as somebody who be heavily involved , I do not think that , when we vote , we deliberately want to give second - class status to our constituent in England and Wales as to their right . but I also recognise the challenge that the Minister set we that day : to test the will of the House through a free vote on an amendment to a piece of legislation . let I clear : I intend to table an amendment to begin that process of test whether an Englishwoman ' s right to choose should be confine by a piece of legislation from the 1600 . we know that abortion be a routine health procedure . one in three woman in this country will have one in their lifetime . this Bill be the right place to act , because even if we see abortion as a healthcare matter , it be first and foremost a criminal offence that every one of those woman be enact before seek exemption from prosecution . when Roe v . Wade be repeal in America last year , many be quick to dismiss the idea that such attack on woman ' s basic right be possible in this country — access to abortion be secure and reflect the settle will of the people — but in the last few month alone , we have see what the Government have do on buffer zone , for which the House vote overwhelmingly . those same voice be silent as the Government drag their heel on the implementation of buffer zone , which be the will of Parliament . in the meantime , multiple woman be await trial , under a law that be old than Germany , for the offence of just have an abortion . last year , six woman be charge with have an abortion . each of they could , in theory , spend the rest of their life behind bar . it be not just about the high - profile case that have go to court and be in the press , and the prison sentence that the legislation drive ; investigation into woman have rocket in the last few year , too . police datum show that , since 2015 , 52 woman have be report for have an abortion . I be sorry to disagree with the right hon . member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) , who be no long in her place , but I genuinely feel that look at sentence guideline alone will not do . it be have the offence in the first place that be drive those investigation and prosecution . the case that come to court be the tip of the iceberg of a culture in which we use a woman ' s reproductive capacity against she at a time when she be most vulnerable . many people agree that that be wrong , but we in this House have yet to address it because we have always put decriminalise abortion in the " too difficult " box . I have be listen very carefully to the hon . Lady . can I ask she to explain why there be a sudden rash of prosecution of woman ? it seem extraordinary . what be the catalyst that have cause it ? I wish I could tell the hon . Gentleman what I think be the cause for sure . there be a number of pressure — perhaps the move towards telemedicine or a renew interest in the issue — but I hope we can agree that in the 21st century the idea that have an abortion in and of itself be a criminal offence be outdated and unworkable with a commitment to equality between the sex . indeed , we be increasingly see — I know this will shock he — any woman who have have a miscarriage or stillbirth be at risk of be drag into a criminal investigation . a young teenager call Megan suffer a stillbirth at 28 week . the police investigate Megan ' s involvement in her child ' s death for a year before the post - mortem confirm that the pregnancy loss be due to natural cause . she face that ordeal while deal with the trauma of stillbirth , and it result in her need emergency psychiatric care . she be not the only one . another young teenager , unaware she be pregnant , deliver a stillborn child . once this be declare , her hospital room be flood with police officer — the presumption of foul play assume before a post - mortem or a doctor ' s examination . although section 58 and 59 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 have become more widely know , it be section 60 that be most frequently use to charge an individual at initial stage , and that be originally write in 1643 to be use to prosecute where there be a suspicion of abortion . that be why senior obstetrician be now raise concern that the provision , if it stay on the statute book , leave bereaved parent expose to intrusive questioning and investigation from the police . for those who have suffer a stillbirth , the knock on the door that they need be from a counsellor , not a constable . if these case be occur in Northern Ireland , woman would not face this pressure . that be why in 2019 mp in this place vote to decriminalise abortion in Northern Ireland . it be also why woman in Northern Ireland now have buffer zone ; they be part of a decriminalised process and protect as such . crucially , when we know people wish to attack a woman ' s basic right to choose , in Northern Ireland the Secretary of State must uphold that human right to choose to have an abortion — safely , legally and locally . those who seek to frustrate that access , whether through formal or informal way , face a Government who know they will have to go to court if they do not overcome those barrier and protect the right of woman to choose . that be because that legislation be found under the auspex of the convention on the elimination of all form of discrimination against woman — a treaty that we technically have yet to ratify fully , but which expressly state that state party should remove criminalisation of abortion and " withdraw punitive measure … on woman who undergo abortion " . the amendment that I will table this evening , which be open to all mp to support — and which I hope I can convince my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North to co - sign — do not ask for something new or to set a new precedent . it be root in practice and evidence about what work when we be protect the human right of woman in the UK to choose . this be not untested because decriminalisation of abortion have already happen not just in Northern Ireland , but in Canada , Australia and New Zealand . we be simply ask for equality and for somebody in Government whose role it would be to uphold that right to access an abortion without the threat of punitive measure . in table my amendment I want to be very clear , because I understand that there will be concern , especially in the light of recent court case : nothing in my proposal will change the time limit in the Abortion Act 1967 . indeed , my amendment would explicitly enshrine those limit in future regulation . we should all be clear that 90 % of abortion in this country happen before 10 week and that those have late - term abortion often do so for the most heartbreaking of reason — the fatal foetal abnormality that mean that if we try to move the time limit , we force woman to give birth to baby they know will die . after carry a much wanted child , we would be criminalise they rather than medicalise this matter . decriminalisation be about take away the threat of prosecution . it do not take away the principle of viability in access service , so I state here and now — and for the purpose to be repeat online and offline as we move through the issue — that a vote for decriminalisation be explicitly a vote against abortion up to birth , though some have try to scare otherwise . it be not the case in Northern Ireland , and it will not be the case here . neither be it a vote for no regulation : the removal of the criminal underpinning of our legislation would mean its replacement with a medical one that put the health of woman first and ensure appropriate professional delivery of service as well as clinical safeguard . I know there be some who will never want this progress . I respect their view : I respect the fact that they do not believe abortion should be an option , and will fight for their voice to be hear in this democracy . surely we all want positive sex education in all our school and support access to contraceptive , which will reduce the number of abortion require . however , many more of we disagree that a woman should be force to give birth , and recognise that have bodily autonomy be a human right issue . the Northern Ireland experience show that it be possible to make progress but also mean that we currently have a two - tier system , with woman in the UK be give different right depend on where they live . why should the woman of Birmingham , Bangor , Bradford , Bury , Broadstairs , Bournemouth and Barking not enjoy the same protection of buffer zone as the woman of Belfast ? if colleague vote for those buffer zone in Northern Ireland , why would they not extend they to their own constituent ? if colleague be not in this place to vote for they in Northern Ireland , why would they accept their own constituent be consider second - class citizen when it come to their basic human right ? now be the time to recognise the damage be do because our criminal code do not allow a right to be access safely , legally , locally and equally across our nation . we know that this will be a long fight , that the wording may change and different variation may be put forward , but we also know that the time be now . colleague who agree — who do not want to see woman prosecute , obstetrician worried and stillbirth penalise in this way — should co - sign our amendment and say , " it be now an equal time to choose for all our constituent . " I be pleased to welcome the Bill , and many of the measure to tackle serious organise crime and antisocial behaviour that it contain . these be important issue that be often raise by my constituent in surgery and through survey , because they impact on people ' s daily life and their sense of safety and belong in their community . I pay tribute to the work of Sussex police , as well as the Government funding that have focus action on the town centre most particularly , deliver the safe street that give people the confidence to be out and about , especially in the night - time economy . however , I will confine my remark not to measure that be in the Bill but to one measure that be not in the Bill but might be . if there be one place where everyone should feel safe , it be surely within the comfort and confine of their own home , but the reality be that thousand of vulnerable people across the country be terrorise in their own home by criminal who take control of that home and use the property for criminal purpose . that horrendous exploitation be know as cuckooing , where criminal target the most vulnerable , such as socially isolated people , those with learn difficulty or those deal with addiction and drug use . they may initially befriend those people , or may simply threaten they . they be often violent , ultimately take over the victim ' s home to store drug , grow cannabis and facilitate prostitution or any number of other criminal activity . the influence of cuckooing go far and wider , because the neighbour of people whose home have be invade have to contend with disruption , antisocial behaviour and intimidation from the criminal who operate from that property . Cuckooing happen across all community in our country , include — I be very sorry to say — in my own constituency of Eastbourne , and it be a rapidly grow problem . figure from Sussex police reflect that : in the past five year , there have be a tenfold increase in cuckooing . understand the impact on the victim in one local case — their powerlessness , despair and shame at have be so abuse and exploit — must surely command further action . may I ask my hon . friend what the reason be for a tenfold increase in cuckoo in Eastbourne ? I thank my right hon . and gallant Friend for his question . I can not explain the increase in Eastbourne , but I imagine that the increase be across the land . there will be an increase and an uptick because it have be find to be a very effective way for criminal gang to operate , and they move from home to home to evade detection . it be an absolutely vile crime , but one that clearly lend itself to the activity be pursue . it be actually a real shock to I to discover that this hostile takeover or invasion — this take over of somebody ' s home — be not already a crime . however , I believe the Government recognise the need for it to be , because in the antisocial behaviour action plan , publish just in March , there be a commitment " to target the awful practice of ' cuckoo ' or home invasion " and a pledge or commitment to " engage with stakeholder on make it a new criminal offence . " indeed , Emily Drew , who be the exploitation co - ordinator at Sussex police , substantiate that point when she say : " it ' s definitely hard to tackle cuckooing when it ' s not technically a crime . there be lot of other tool and power we can utilise and we can be quite creative with it but it do rely on perpetrator commit other offence . " hence the real challenge of make this a stand - alone and discrete crime . clearly the action plan be a very positive step forward , but at the moment the Bill do not include such an offence . however , in his opening remark , the Secretary of State talk of " every possible support " and " additional power " for the police . he speak about people feel safe in their home , and about opportunity during the passage of the Bill to consider further amendment to cover some of the concern raise by hon . member . I very much hope that the Bill will provide the perfect opportunity to introduce a new criminal offence to outlaw cuckooing once and for all . I hope the Minister and the excellent ministerial team , with the Secretary of State , will bring forward such an amendment in due course . I rise to speak to some of the amendment and proposal outline in this Bill , and to echo some of the comment make by right hon . and hon . member . one of the key thing in it — require individual who be face a sentence to come up and hear their sentencing — be a step in the right direction . I be sure that provision be welcome , and it be good to see that the Home Secretary and Ministers be listen to many of the bereaved family about the impact non - attendance have on they . they have speak about how it be distress , exacerbate trauma and essentially deny they the opportunity to address the perpetrator . however , I hope that the Minister , in respond , will address some of the concern of campaigner and organisation , include Justice , which have highlight that the use of force may have a disproportionate impact on BAME offender and could also put custody officer and prisoner at risk . I hope that the Government will bear that in mind when they be look at how to implement this power . I totally agree with what the hon . Lady have say . be we envisage someone who refuse point blank to come into court to receive their sentence be force into court by police officer and manacle to the dock ? personally I agree with that , but be that what we be envisage ? this be where we need clarity , not only for offender but for prison officer who be go to be deal with those people and make sure no harm come to they . there must be a clear definition of the use of force , recognise that this be a very distressing time for the family and those in the dock but also recognise that there must be appropriate use of force . many member have highlight the second area I want to focus on : the new proposal on the power of nuisance begging and nuisance rough sleeping . the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tracey Crouch ) and my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) be not in the Chamber at present , but I agree entirely with their comment . there be no mention in the proposal of any support to address rough sleeping , yet we have a number of punitive measure that will only end up criminalise people who be already face a difficult and challenging time . those measure will do nothing to end rough sleeping and homelessness . specifically , the penalty for nuisance begging or nuisance rough sleeping be one month of imprisonment . the measure might not work , either , because the Government have be honest in say that there be a lack of capacity in prison — there be just no space . that be evident in the Government ' s proposal in clause 25 to 29 to transfer individual to rent prison abroad . short - term prison sentence be expensive , and study show that they do not work in have a positive impact on re - offend . I be co - chair of the all - party group for end homelessness , and our inquiry last year hear from many people who have experience rough sleeping and homelessness . the key issue they highlight be mental health problem , substance abuse , domestic abuse , alcohol and poverty . all of they be key driver in force people to experience rough sleeping and homeless . give that this be a Home Office Bill , do my hon . friend recognise that one of the challenge we be see be an increase number of people who be refugee become homeless because they be give such short notice that they be no long go to be house in hotel ? perhaps if we have a little more notice and planning we might be able to avoid some of those people sleep rough , because we could work with they to make sure they be able to find housing or other accommodation in their new country when they have the status they need to be here . I thank my hon . friend for raise that matter , because it be as if she be read my mind . our all - party group take evidence from a number of different organisation as well as London council , refugee and people from the Homes for Ukraine scheme . we hear about people who have be house and support by various council and host family , but who be now present to council up and down the country as homeless with nowhere to go . the Government need a join - up approach to address this . we also have to recognise that people who be rough sleeping be also very vulnerable and be more likely to be victim of crime and antisocial behaviour , yet they will not report that to the police because of the stigma of be homeless . everyone need a good - quality home to live in . it be central to our wellbeing and our physical and mental health , and it should be a basic human right . I urge the Minister and the Government to remove the clause in question and instead to work with local authority , charity , shelter and organisation include St Mungo ' s , Crisis , Shelter , Homeless Link and a range of other , who be work hard to provide support to people so that everyone can find a decent home and keep it . I also want to talk about the vetting , suspension and misconduct of police officer . this Bill present a good opportunity to introduce reform in those area . we have have various report and study on police conduct both in London and across the country , and the fact that seven of our police force be still in special measure should alarm we . the duty of candour for police under clause 73 fall short of the wholesale review we need in police . there be a requirement on the College of Policing to issue a code of practice to set out the action to be take by a chief officer . that essentially leave the College of Policing to determine what " act in an open and transparent way " mean . one of the key area cite in Baroness Casey ' s report be the defensiveness of organisation such as the Met police when face with criticism . my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Camberwell and Peckham ( Ms Harman ) put forward a number of sensible proposal to look at reform that , and they go way beyond what the Government be outline in the Bill . they include automatic dismissal for a serve officer convict of a serious criminal offence , automatic suspension of an officer charge with a serious criminal offence and automatic dismissal of a serve officer who fail their vetting . that would help restore some of the trust and confidence in our policing , because at the moment criminal see that those who be suppose to uphold the law be not within the law themselves and be face criminal charge . that should not be happen . we welcome some of the good measure in the Bill . some of the measure on knife crime be good , but on their own will they not go far enough to address knife crime . one of the most difficult thing I have have to do as a Member of Parliament be to meet bereaved family . I have sit in a family ' s front room and look over their shoulder and see a picture of the love one they have lose — that young smile face . I hold my constituent ' s mum early this year after her daughter be brutally murder at 4 pm on 1 May . she ask I , " why ? " she ask why she have to wait over a year to get justice for her daughter . there be nothing you can say . just introduce new measure and legislation on zombie knife and other knife will not address the chronic issue of knife crime that we see across the country . we need a full - scale , holistic public health approach . we need funding , education and a mental health approach to deal with the root cause of knife crime . we can not just lock people up to get out of this — that be not the solution . those who have lose family member know that be not the solution , and they want to work with the Government to address this matter properly . I ask the Government again : instead of introduce yet another measure on knife crime , will they work with local authority , youth service , council and police force up and down the country to have a wholesale public health approach to deal with this pandemic of knife crime ? hate crime have sadly rise , too . early this year there be a horrific hate crime attack at the two Brewers in Clapham in my constituency . we have see a massive increase in LGBTQI + hate crime . someone be attack simply for who they love be wrong . again , the community feel that when they come forward to report such crime to the police , their concern be not take seriously . will the Government look at the inefficiency in report and address those crime ? a number of member have mention retail crime and visit they have make to store in their constituency . like my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , I visit a Co - op store in my constituency . in the South Lambeth Road store , shopworker mention a situation where the same offender have come to the shop 17 time . shopworker be go out to work every day know that they could be physically attack and abuse , and that be not right . I start my work life in Sainsbury ' s on Clapham High Street . yes , customer could sometimes be aggressive , especially when the focaccia bread be sell out by 11 am on Saturday morning — it be Clapham High Street — but no one should have to tolerate abuse and physical abuse just for go to work . staff on the frontline in our retail shop be be attack day in , day out , and that can not go on . the Government be not recognise that , and be say that theft under £ 200 will not be look at . we need to ensure that the police have the resource to address this issue , because low - level antisocial behaviour escalate . in some case , that physical and verbal abuse , God forbid , turn into a stabbing and an innocent shop worker be kill . we should not have that happen to our frontline worker . there be sensible proposal in the Bill , but I urge the Government to think carefully about those that will not have an impact in address the key issue of crime and antisocial behaviour . the conservative writer and statesman John Buchan say : " you think that a wall as solid as the earth separate civilisation from barbarism . I tell you the division be a thread , a sheet of glass . " too often , our constituent be expose to how fragile that thread be as they deal with the barbarity of crime . it be true that , as the new Home Secretary say , some crime have fall — burglary have certainly decline , as well as some other crime — but too many of our constituent have a diminish faith in the rule of law . order deliver and depend on a secure sense of certainty shape by share value and , as community become increasingly fragment by social breakdown , those value be erode . there be many reason for that , but just two of they be the pace and character of change . we can not admit 1 . 3 million people into the country in just two year and hope that community will hang together . in some place , there be nothing to integrate into , even if the people come would like to do so . we have to deal with the rapid pace of change and its effect on the character of community and the share value on which we all depend . there be another problem , which sadly be prevalent in the Chamber ; I hear it prosecute many time . that be to assume that the focus in criminal justice should be on the criminal , not the crime ; the cause , not the event . that implicitly limit — I would say that it reduce — our concern for victim as we perpetually ask why something have happen rather than what have happen . the effect of a crime — the event — be immediately feel , and the consequence of that event be measurable , so let we stop agonise about why , and deal with what and how , and what we will do about it . what will the Government do about it in the Bill ? there be much to be welcome . the new crackdown on antisocial behaviour be overdue and insufficient but welcome . there be the concentration on knife crime and new offence for carry knife . that , by the way , need to be back up with much more extensive use of stop and search — I hope we will hear that from the Minister when she wind up — because there be no point in have something on the statute book that say , " if you carry a weapon , you will be prosecute " if we do not know whether people be carry one or not . we know that stop and search work and we want to see more of it . there be also sensible change to the law on vagrancy . again , let we be crystal clear about those change . the Bill say — this be not the hyperbole we have hear from some Opposition Members — that we will ban beg where it be cause a public nuisance such as by a cashpoint , in a shop doorway , on public transport , or approach people in their car at traffic light . it will also introduce a new offence target at organise begging , which can be facilitate by criminal gang to gain money for illicit activity — that be organise , orchestrate beg on a large scale . it will also introduce power for the police and local authority to address rough sleeping where it be cause damage , disruption , harassment , distress , or a security or health and safety risk such as the obstruction of fire exit or block pavement . that all sound eminently reasonable . of course , those measure be not part of a big strategy on homelessness — I acknowledge and accept that — but my constituent tell I that they suffer from exactly the thing that I have just detail and want something do about it . the Government be to be congratulate for respond to those call . the Government be right , too , to insist that criminal be in court when sentence . we all see recently that Lucy Letby be able to avoid meet the family of her victim by cower in her cell when she be duly sentence . there be thing that be not in the Bill . I would have like it to look at raise minimum and maximum sentence for all kind of crime . I would like more custodial sentence , not few , and not just for serious crime . we have hear a lot about shoplifting . let we imagine if we say to our constituent that the Government be increase sentence for serious crime , but a perpetual shoplifter will never go to prison ; someone engage in criminal damage by deface or attack a war memorial in our constituency will not go to prison ; someone involve in perpetual antisocial behaviour will not go to prison . that be not good enough , it be not what our constituent expect or want and it be not what the Government should do . do my right hon . friend agree that the power of community payback be enormous , visible and make a huge difference to our community ? when those who commit petty crime be see to be paint or garden in city or town park , the offence be commensurate with the justice moot , and we can all benefit from that . yes , but it be a big mistake to assume that the principle aim of criminal justice be to avoid recidivism . that seem to underpin much of what the Government think . it be true that we want to stop people become perpetual criminal , but that be not the only measure of criminal justice . the purpose of justice be to punish . People want to see " the infliction of an ill suffer for an ill do " . for people ' s faith in criminal justice to be maintain , they need to know that if someone do something wrong , they will suffer for it . similarly , imprison someone take they away from where they commit the crime and thereby stop they from commit another . in the case of shoplifting , at the very least it provide respite for those plague by shoplifter — often , the same family , group and social network be involve in that concentrated and organised shoplifting . it be not the person steal the occasional thing ; unfortunately , it have be institutionalise in certain criminal community and among a certain kind of felon . we need to think about criminal justice in those term . community sentencing can play a part , but it be important that criminal justice be retributive . that argument be make to I perpetually by my constituent , but in their eye , it seem to fall on deaf ear among the political elite . protect the public , punish criminal and provide victim with a sense that justice have be do be all essential to maintain popular faith in criminal justice . I know that other want to speak , and too many speech in this Chamber be too long . as you know , Mr Deputy Speaker , there be no such thing as a political speech that be too short . so I will conclude with a different quote from a different character . C S Lewis say : " I think the art of life consist in tackle each immediate evil as well as we can . " we will never eradicate the wickedness of crime . no society ever have . but in tackle evil , first we must recognise it , and secondly be intolerant of it . to be intolerant of wickedness be not only the right thing ethically but would allow we to say with pride that we be defend the innocent against those who seek to make their life a misery . let we move forward with the Bill with a spirit of righteous intolerance of evil . on that note , I look forward to the new Minister , whom I welcome to her place , illustrate her vigorous intolerance of all that be wicked and criminal . I thank the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) for his contribution , but I feel I have to pick up on his point about stop and search . as I know from my own constituency , do badly , stop and search can have a lifetime impact on trust in the police . I know man of my age who can still remember when they be stop and search frequently and badly . it absolutely have to be intelligence - lead and do respectfully , so that any young person — or any person stop by the police — know their right and be treat properly , because not everybody carry a weapon . there be a point to it when it be well - target , but we have to keep monitor the police so that the number of stop and search and the number of weapon find be proportional . across London — I know my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall ( Florence Eshalomi ) will find this as well in her constituency — people catch with a weapon will often hide it in the bush or somewhere else because they know it will be find by stop and search . if it be use badly , it do not work ; if it use well , it do have a place in police . it can not be get rid of completely , but it must be do respectfully and properly . give the current challenge the police be face , particularly in London , in term of trust with the community , we need to be really careful . in my constituency , I watch the statistic closely for who be stop and search , and the proportion of knife catch . it be important that we all keep an eye on that . we be at a point of disagreement , but I hope we can disagree well on this issue . the tone of the debate have be like the old day — we be actually discuss the matter in the Bill . I want to focus on a number of issue , start with that important matter of public trust in policing , which we know be currently a real challenge . we have police by consent in this country and that be a prize worth fight for . in my constituency , over a very long period of time , before my election 18 year ago and since , we have see that lack of trust and challenge play out viscerally at time . nationally , we have the shocking case of police officer Wayne Couzens and David Carrick . they be serve officer and continue to be in employment despite previous incident that be clear red flag . I strongly commend to the House Baroness Casey ' s review into the standard of behaviour and internal culture in the Metropolitan police . it set out clearly the scale of the problem and be a seminal piece of work , but it will only be a seminal piece of work in reality if it be actually take on board . I therefore welcome the commitment make by the Metropolitan Police Commissioner , Sir Mark Rowley , to tackle those issue , and his strong acknowledgement of the systemic problem in the force he now lead . the leadership have to come from the top , but it need to be root and branch from below as well . we need to have confidence that the police can report issue among their colleague — the duty of candour be an important element . the idea that thing be hide from senior management , or that senior management will not deal with they , need to be in the bin now . Sir Mark Rowley need power to his elbow to continue to deliver what he be try to do . I be very concerned about how we get here and there be still lesson to be learn . very many year ago , I become a Home Office Minister . I have responsibility for the vetting and bar service . build a picture about an individual police officer and vetting be still not be apply to the police . I serve as a Home Office Minister for the three year from 2007 until the general election in 2010 . colleague may remember the Bichard report , publish in 2004 after the tragic murder of two young girl in Soham . the importance of record and aggregate inappropriate and concern incident and behaviour carry out by people in professional role , or indeed anyone , be not be manage well . someone could commit a crime in one area — or not even commit a crime , but come to the attention of the police force in that area — and then move to a different area and repeat the same action , and there would not be an overall picture of what that person have do . as the Minister responsible for the then vet and bar scheme , since subsume , alongside the Criminal Records Bureau , into the Disclosure and Barring Service , I help to shape that picture , focus particularly on people work in education and health setting and bring together and change the rule govern the way in which people be support . but that picture building also play a much wide role . I know , have deal with it in such detail at the time , that if it be use and share properly , it can prevent opportunity for more serious crime to be commit . it be a tragedy and an irony that that type of intelligence gathering , which be now well establish in many profession , include education and healthcare , have clearly not be happen in police . the vetting system alone be different . someone could be vet and pass to become a police officer in one area , but in another area the vetting would disbar he or she from that force . action could be register on people ' s file and record as employee in one force , and in another force — or , indeed , in the same force — the accumulation of those action do not lead to those people lose their job . before Wayne Couzens be convict of rape and murder , six incident of indecent exposure be link to he , and in a previous job he be know as " the rapist " because of how he make woman feel . David Carrick ' s offence span a 17 - year period — almost as long as I have be in the House — with report to the Met first make in 2000 . here we be in 2023 , more than 20 year after the tragedy in Soham , and that picture building and intelligence gathering across police force have still not be happen . there be a great deal to be do to build trust between the public and the police , and it be clear that immediate progress need to be make on the issue that I have mention . I want to say something about the Home Office ' s recent review of police officer dismissal , in particular its recommendation that misconduct hear panel should be chair by senior police officer support by a legally qualified panel member and an independent member . previously the panel would have be chair by the legally qualified panel member , support by the other two member , in order to ensure , rightly , that those chair misconduct hearing have the appropriate knowledge and skill and be remove from any actual or perceive conflict of interest in the case . I fear that the change in the make - up of the panel threaten public confidence in the transparency and independence of the proceeding . for example , a police chief or a police and crime commissioner might be require to make a statement immediately follow a police incident , something we regularly see on our television screen and read about in the medium . after that , the officer involve could be subject to a disciplinary hearing . how could that police chief then chair the panel objectively ? there would be a clear conflict of interest . the Bill create the right of a chief constable to appeal against a decision make by a misconduct hear panel . the rationale for that be that police chief should have a right to determine whom they employ in their force . on one level I completely understand that , and , as I say , all power to the elbow of Mark Rowley in want to get rid of bad officer in his employment . however , it add another layer of proceeding — another potentially lengthy and resource - drain element . policing be not a regulated profession , which be extraordinary when we think of comparable profession . as the IOPC point out in its response to the Home Office ' s review of the process of police officer dismissal , " police disciplinary proceeding have their origin in the employer - employee relationship between a constable and their chief officer . however , that relationship have be overlay incrementally by a statutory regime intend to promote public confidence . as have be note in various legal judgement , the legislative regime that have result be very complicated . " in regulated profession , the professional body deal with the public interest in fitness to practise issue , which mean strike off people from the professional register when that be appropriate , while employer deal with breach of the contract of employment , which mean dismissal or some less sanction . in the absence of a fitness to practise model in the police , a neat solution would be to separate finding relate to misconduct from the sanctioning element . a panel — chair , I suggest , by an independent member — could find an officer guilty of misconduct and make a recommendation regard an appropriate sanction , but the police chief would then make the decision to retain or sack that officer on the basis of the independent finding . we all know that confidence in policing be the foundation of our system and that police by consent be something we should prize . it be essential for my constituent in Hackney and for people up and down this country that we take concrete step to address the problem and fix the long - stand systemic issue . I think there be an opportunity to do that in police . I can see why the police will have lobby the Government to have the right to chair misconduct proceeding , but I think there be a way of resolve that and keep the independent oversight while give police chief the right to sack people who have do the wrong thing . I also want to touch on something I mention in an intervention on my right hon . friend the Member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford ( Yvette Cooper ) in relation to shoplifting . shoplifting have increase 25 % in the last 12 month alone , with offence under £ 200 rarely be enforce . I recently visit the Gainsborough Co - op in Shoreditch to talk to the staff there , and I thank they for host I . I have also speak to the trade union USDAW . it be interesting and sober to talk to the member of staff at the Co - op who be responsible for collect the information about shoplift across the Co - op group . a lot of evidence be collect . we have hear example of people go in and sweep up food , with the same person often make several visit a day ; they know when the security guard be on a break and go in then . they case the joint and steal repetitively . they be also increasingly aggressive , and staff tell I that they now go behind the till more often . the staff now wear camera to try to record video evidence . they collect video evidence and they collect evidence from staff , who have to take time out of their duty to report it . they tell I that they be assiduous in do that because they see the importance of try to tackle the issue . the Co - op then pull together that datum — USDAW tell I that it be the same for other store — and present it to the police en masse to try to get a conviction , yet so little be take up . a police officer will not necessarily attend an individual incident . I understand the pressure on the police in my borough , where there be lot of thing go on . there always have to be a priority , but shoplifting be so often down the list of priority that it be a real tragedy for those work in those shop . the hon . Lady and I see eye to eye on quite a few of the point that have be raise today . she mention a Co - op store , which be part of a wide group that clearly have a few more resource than independent retailer do . do she agree that we really need to change not just the mindset in police but the law to ensure that all crime be treat equally , particularly when it come to shop crime and its impact on retailer ? the right hon . Lady and I be perhaps surprised to find ourselves in such agreement , but absolutely . I will finish highlight what the Co - op do , because I think it play into what happen in small store . the staff pull together enough information to make it evidentially strong enough to take through the prosecution service and into court , but even then they often struggle to get any interest — and of course , if the store clamp down in one area by put more security into a shop where there have be a particular issue , the criminal just move to the next property . we have to deal with this problem area - wide , which be why it need to be a police matter and not just deal with store by store . crucially , as the right hon . Lady say , if the Co - op , Tesco or Sainsbury ' s clamp down on a particular store or store in an area , other shop be leave with less support . they be often small corner shop with a lone shopkeeper , and the fear for they be palpable . it be really worrying . if they know that the police be not go to come , they just have to back off and their good be steal . the Co - op that I visit have lose £ 155 , 000 - worth of good in the first six month of this year . for a small shop , that be the difference between exist and not . we rely on those local shop , and in lockdown we need their support . now we need to support they , and this need to be a high priority for the police . the Government could also be do more . this be something that my own party be keen to look at . I be a Labour and Co - op Member of Parliament , so I be particularly keen to see this deal with . I be strike as I talk to the staff in store by how helpless they feel when someone pretty much jump across the till to take cigarette and booze . they have to hide thing , and they have to stock dummy product , which be inconvenient for customer . of course , customer sometimes go into one of these shop and find that the good they want to buy be not there because , as my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall ( Florence Eshalomi ) say , the shop have just have a large - volume raid . shoplifting need to be take much more seriously . nobody should go to work and expect to be attack . everyone I speak to have suffer an incident of shoplifting . even if they step back and be not violently attack , it be still very damaging psychologically . no wonder we see such turnover among shop worker . do the hon . Lady agree that perpetual shoplifter of the kind she describe , who intimidate people and make the life of shopkeeper and shop assistant a misery , should be bang up ? again , I find myself break out in agreement with the right hon . Gentleman . if the sanction be too low , people will keep do it . as with county line , it be clear that criminal gang be often use and exploit vulnerable people to do their dirty work . those vulnerable people get catch , but we do not get Mr Big . shoplifting be become an epidemic in many of our area . one of my conversation with shop worker be about the mental health impact of be attack and abuse day in , day out . a number of they be think of change profession . we might think they have support , but the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) mention that , in most circumstance , small shop have just one person in the store . do my hon . friend agree that their safety have to be paramount and that we need more action ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . like she , I have speak to shopkeeper and it be hearten that they want to do a good job . they say the problem be that , after a shoplifting incident , not only do they go home with it in their head but they have to take time out to record it all . this be what one say to I , and it be really heartfelt : " it stop I do what I ' m here to do , which be to help customer . " he be so proud of his job , and he want to help customer . nobody should be force not to do their job well . frankly , there be a real issue here , and there need to be a strong signal that there will be action on the ground , with the police work with the retailer . the big retailer can help , but action need to be area - wide . we need to take a completely different approach to shoplifting . I commend the comment of my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall on knife crime . she highlight the utter tragedy that she and I have experience too often . it be not right that our young people feel unsafe roam the street . they should have the right to roam , but instead they and their parent be constantly worry about knife on the street . just ban zombie knife be not enough , because people will hide they . as with county line , people will find a way . an 11 - year - old in my constituency be recently ask to hide a gun , and when the gun go miss — it be take from he — he have to pay back the person who have ask he to look after it . that be a classic example of groom , and the same thing will happen with knife , which be not always hold by the criminal themselves . those who want to get hold of a dangerous weapon can do so all too easily , even if it be ban in law . that alone be not enough for somebody who be determined to do this . we need to take a much more holistic public health approach to knife crime . I be in the Home Office when my party be last in government . the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) and I be proud of our service in the Home Office , which be a great Department to be in , but it be also frustrating . at that time , we be try to work with accident and emergency department to get the datum so that we could track what be happen , to make sure we have a more holistic approach . this be not just a crime issue ; it be about make sure we be help and divert young people , who be often draw into this activity not because they want to be but because , for young people live in certain area , it be safe to be part of a gang than to step away . it be hard to resist that pressure at time , and those innocent young victim need as much support as other victim . the hon . Lady be absolutely right . we can all reflect on where other part of the state drop the ball on this issue , for young people in particular . tragically , as she will know from her constituency — I have spend a lot of time with family in central London who be grieve because they have lose their child , their niece or their nephew — these child get trap into bond labour , basically . they be treat like slave . somewhere along their journey the state , whether it be social service or the Department for Education , have fail . these kid may have be kick out of school . that be where we need early intervention to stop the rot setting in . I absolutely agree on that , and we need resource for that early intervention . something we look at on the Public Accounts Committee , which I have the privilege of chairing , be what I call " cost shunting " . a classic example of that would be where mental health service get cut and the police end up pick up mental health patient and have to divert resource there . we could have early intervention to support young people so that they be not catch up in this . I be not blame young people , as they themselves be not a problem — the young people in my constituency be amazing and be go to be great leader of the future — but some of they , sadly , get suck into this . that little bit of money go in early can prevent a lot of challenge for young people . many year ago , a police chief in Lambeth , in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall ( Florence Eshalomi ) , do a bit of work to analyse the tragic knife crime of that year and a clear pattern of victim emerge , one that often relate to their being in care and to challenge in the education system . I give credit to Hackney ' s gang intervention unit , which find the young people who be at risk of get involve or who be involve . it then find a way to divert they out of that path , through rehousing and education , and support the family in do that . this be a real challenge and so many parent want to talk to I about it . they do not want a uniformed police officer come to the door if they know that there be a drug or gang issue in their area , because they do not want the young person in their family , often their son or daughter , to be target . we can talk about that issue . frankly , it will be cheap for the Home Office to put money into early intervention than deal with the aftermath — the victim , the death and , later , the prison system , which go to the Ministry of Justice budget . we need to break the government spending silo , look across they with a mission statement as the leader of the Labour party have suggest . no long can we look at individual silos ; we need to find a way of tackle these wicked issue . on fraud , the PAC have be look at the issue for some time , and it be a failure of the system that we have such a poor response to it . the PAC look at fraud in 2017 and again this year . outlaw SIM farm be all very well , but victim continue to be let down . this be like the tip of an iceberg ; it be as though the Government have to put something about fraud in the Bill so they go for SIM farm . be that go to solve anything , give that most of the crime be overseas ? when we look at this again this year , the Committee conclude that fraud be " everyone ' s problem but no one ' s priority " . the Bill back up that premise . some 41 % of all crime currently commit be fraud ; we be talk about 3 . 8 million instance of actual or attempt fraud in the year to June of last year . such little progress have be make in the past year , with fraud increase and victim pay the price . the cost of fraud to individual cumulatively be £ 4 . 7 billion . we all want to boost the economy , so if we stop fraud , we could have £ 4 . 7 billion be spend in our economy . I be not be flippant , because this have a huge impact on the individual who get hit , sometimes to the tune of several thousand pound . for many of my constituent , even £ 50 or £ 100 be enough to tip they over the edge in a month , so this be a really big concern . of course , this be about not just financial fraud , but other fraud . I be pleased that my right hon . friend be talk about fraud . the Home Affairs Committee have just start an inquiry on fraud and we learn that only about one in seven people who be the victim of a fraud report it , because of the shame and stigma attach . be she be concern as I be that people be not report fraud and so this be the tip of the iceberg ? I absolutely be . I recommend to my right hon . friend our report of this year and , I be sorry to say , our back history of report on this issue , because thing have move so slowly that people might as well read the 2017 report as not much have move on since . I be go to come on to the issue of how reporting work , because the Bill miss an opportunity there . the right hon . Lady may recall that when I be a Home Office Minister — we be all share our Home Office history here — we set up the National Cyber Security Centre and the national cyber - security strategy . we have make significant progress , but she be right to say that , as with shoplifting , fraud and cyber - crime be at epidemic level . part of that be about the way we construct system that be interdependent , interconnect and interoperable . sometimes that add to vulnerability , so we must change culturally how we go about do business and interact . I do not dispute what the right hon . Gentleman say , but there be a danger that that let the Home Office off the hook . in the five or six year during which the Public Accounts Committee have be look at the issue , fraud have get bad . indeed , I be deal with some of the issue when I be a Home Office Minister , and we be see a growth in the crime but not a growth in the action in response to it . that be not surprising , as the volume and complexity of case be overwhelming police force and Action Fraud , the civil body to which people report such crime . the point that the right hon . Gentleman make about interdependency be valid . because the Home Office be dependent on the banking , technology , telecom and retail sector to fight fraud , its response have be slow and sluggish , rely on voluntary agreement with organisation in those sector to deliver change . frankly , those agreement have not deliver enough . the bank be reluctant to give evidence at all to the Public Accounts Committee — I suggest to the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , that she push the bank to give more information — and when we suggest publicly report fraud level against the bank , they be apoplectic . we end up recommend slightly time - delay reporting as a way of keep institution on their toe , so that customer could vote with their foot and know exactly which bank be on top of deal with fraud . we think that the different sector where fraud be happen could do more . over 70 % of fraud have an international element , so whatever we do domestically will not resolve the situation unless we have well relationship with overseas criminal justice agency . this be immature in the Home Office currently , as we conclude in our report publish early this year , and the matter be not help by the lack of capacity in the UK . only 1 % of police be dedicate to fraud , yet it represent 41 % of crime . the Home Secretary say that percentage balancing be not possible , but we can all acknowledge that if 1 % of police officer be dedicate to fraud and 41 % of crime be fraud then the balance be out of kilter . some 20 , 000 new police officer be be recruit , which be a welcome step , but only around 2 % of they — some 380 officer — will be focus on fraud . the Public Accounts Committee look at new officer recruitment ; recruit fast can mean that a lot of junior staff be recruit , not the specialist that be need , so there have be a miss opportunity . I will not go into that far , as it be outside the scope of the Bill . public communication could be improve by the Home Office , work in partnership with other , as campaign can be effective . when the Committee look at communication this year , there be 13 public campaign run about fraud , but few than 10 % of citizen be aware of any of they . we raise the matter five year ago , when the Take five campaign be run by the National Crime Agency . however , five year on , that campaign be still be evaluate , so it be not work very well . my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North raise the issue of fraud not be report by people . only 300 , 000 case be report to Action Fraud by the public , which give the overall number be not very many , and another 600 , 000 be report by business and industry . of the 900 , 000 case report annually , few than 15 % end up with further action and only 1 % result in a criminal justice outcome . Action Fraud be set to be replace in the new year , yet the Bill do not mention the victim experience , which be a miss opportunity . I hope that will be probe far by member of the Bill Committee . it be sober that the time take by law enforcement agency to take on and tackle fraud be often long than the sentence that the fraudster receive , so something be go wrong . we need a concerted effort to deal with this wicked issue , which cut across many area . the measure relate to intimate image be welcome . I pay tribute to my previous constituent , Emily , who have now move back to the United States , who work tirelessly over a period of year to shift the dial on the issue , after she be film naked without her consent . I hold an Adjournment debate in April 2018 call for exactly this issue to be address and make an offence . new section 66aa set out three offence of take or record intimate photograph or film , include an offence of " intentionally " take a photograph or record a film that show another person in an intimate state without that person ' s consent or a reasonable belief in their consent . this be a moment to pay tribute to Emily Hunt , who bravely name herself , take on the system and be a force of nature in make sure the issue be tackle . we could not understand why the crime of take such a photograph be not identify in law . at the time , the fact the person who have take it have not publish it be the issue , but this measure have now be introduce and it would have protect Emily . my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) highlight what happen to many young teenager , particularly teenage girl , so this measure act as a protection . in addition , we need to ensure we educate people that such behaviour should not happen . as the Bill make progress , I hope some of those issue will be pick up in Committee . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate and to accept the Home Secretary ' s invitation to get behind this Bill , because there be much to commend in it . the process be an iterative one , as it build on so much work that the Government have already do on crime and on the criminal justice system . I be honour and pleased to serve on the Public Bill Committee that consider the Domestic Abuse Bill , enact in 2021 , and an example of a further improvement in the Criminal Justice Bill be the addition of an aggravating feature to reflect the crime of man whose control of their partner end with the heinous crime of murder . as I say , this be very much an iterative process , and there be much to like in the Bill , such as the way it bear down on drug crime ; the way it bear down on knife crime ; the way it bear down on sexual offending , and sexual offending against child in particular ; and the way it bear down on serious organise crime . the one area that I emphatically support be the Bill ' s require those criminal — they be coward — who have the nerve , have commit a crime , not to face up to their victim , to attend their sentencing hearing . as a proud daughter of a police officer , I welcome the focus on police standard , and I note that , for the vast majority of policeman , there be nothing bad than misdemeanour and criminal activity in their own rank . I know that the vast majority of police will very much welcome that focus . there be no such thing as a minor crime . crime be a violation of that feeling of safety and security that we all deserve . my constituent in Hertford and Stortford certainly deserve that sense of security go about their daily business and their daily life . antisocial behaviour be a scourge on our community and one that we have concern about in Hertford and Stortford . I wish to pay tribute to my local police as well as to Chief Inspector David Cooke and all his team . they have use closure notice and closure order , which be very useful tool . what have be raise with I by my local police — I have also raise this with minister — be that we have a bit of a revolving door with closure order . a closure order can be issue by a court , and it be very effective . the community breathe a sigh of relief , as it have respite from the problem that they have be experience for a period of time , but , at the end of that order , the same occupant can go back into the same property , or a similar property , and the community be leave absolutely distraught — in fact even bad than the first time , because they have have a sense of relief but then the problem have recur . antisocial behaviour be something that we need to bear in mind because it be a blight on local community . the provision to extend the power to issue and to apply for closure order to register social housing provider be very welcome , because that help to give extra responsibility to those provider , and it will , I think , encourage they to take the matter seriously to try to avoid that revolve door element and look for more permanent solution , which will be hugely beneficial to local community . as I say , this be an iterative process , and there be opportunity in this Bill to create other criminal offence . my hon . friend the Member for Eastbourne ( Caroline Ansell ) , who be not in her place , raise the issue of cuckooing , which I would also like to suggest as a separate offence . very often criminal use property for illegal activity , and this action be not victimless , because often they move into a property — the well term for it be actually a home invasion — where there be vulnerable people , who be use as a vehicle for criminal purpose . those people be often physically or mentally vulnerable or have addiction problem . they be real victim , and they need to be protect . society need to say , " we do not accept this . " in order to measure , name and deal with a crime we have to accept it as a crime . this cruel and cynical activity should be criminalise as a separate offence . there be different offence we can use to tackle cuckooing , but those would generally be drug offence or antisocial behaviour offence , which do not reflect the gravity of the crime and the fact that there be victim . we should be say , " we don ' t accept it and we don ' t tolerate it . we want to measure it and know the scale of it , so we have to name it and make it a separate offence . " along the same line , another horrific crime that have no separate offence be spike , which have be mention already . my hon . friend the Member for Gloucester ( Richard Graham ) have do a lot of work on the issue already and I know he will continue to do so . it beggar belief that someone would go out and prepare to administer toxic , noxious substance to another person — usually , but not exclusively , a woman — often for sexual or control purpose . here again we currently rely on other offence , but we must name that offence . we must see it , we must convict it and we must sentence it as the crime it be . I sit on the bench as a magistrate many time . I see the victim of offence and I see how much it mean to they to have their day in court — to be able to give their evidence and to have the crime that have be perpetrate against they name and recognise and sentence . it mean a huge amount to they , and it should mean everything to we . we often hear that the punishment should fit the crime but , in the case of cuckoo and spike , it be my assertion that the crime should fit the crime and that they should be separate offence . I hope that Ministers and the Government will look at they carefully . what a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Hertford and Stortford ( Julie Marson ) and to hear she mention the issue of spike , as several other have do . I will not speak for quite as long as the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) , who I think manage 40 minute , but there be enough time to mention two or three quick point of interest to the House . this be , after all , a debate on issue of huge importance to all our constituent , issue of safety and justice . much have be say from all part of the House that many of we can agree on . I particularly enjoy the speech from my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tracey Crouch ) , my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) , the hon . member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) , my hon . friend the Member for North West Norfolk ( James Wild ) and the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North have do great work on spike . she , I , the former Home Secretary my right hon . friend the Member for Witham , and other be completely align in our proposal to the Ministers on the Front Bench and to the Home Secretary that this be not just a great opportunity to follow through on some of the thing that be already in the Bill — for example , the importance of criminal attend their sentencing , prevent sex offender from change their name to confuse the register of sex offender and other very good initiative — but a historic opportunity to make spike a separate , specific offence define in law and to send a very clear message to a lot of people . this be not the first time that I have sing this tune , Mr Deputy Speaker . as you and other will be aware , we have debate in my name in January , two ten - minute rule Bills in January 2022 and June of this year , and a Home Affairs Committee report in April this year . they have all recommend the creation of a separate offence of spike . it now fall to the new Ministers , whom I warmly congratulate on their appointment — especially new the safeguarding Minister , the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , my hon . friend the Member for Newbury ( Laura Farris ) — to seize the moment and bring the change to life . the reason it matter so much be partly that , rather like the with Vagrancy Act 1824 , we need to update legislation to reflect modern practice and language . we need to define the term " spike " , bring together element of two separate exist act — one of they victorian — and ensure that the police record complaint and accusation , help to collect evidence , and refer case to the CPS when appropriate . however , behind all that be the straightforward truth for anyone listen to the debate : we all know , or know of , at least one person who have be spike . that include several member of this House or member of their family , as well as so many of our constituent . almost all those case have not be report or record . let I give three quick example of spike that we do know about . the first be an example send to I this morning by a colleague whose friend , a male in his 60 , be here in London on business . he drop " into a pub near his hotel and have his drink spiked . " the guy who spike the drink " supposedly ' help ' he back to his hotel where the assault and rape happen . " the individual who be rape be not a gay , so it be particularly traumatic . our colleague from this House say that the individual thus abuse " be mostly over it now " . that be just one example of an incident that have not go anywhere near the police , let alone the court . there be , of course , an infamous example from Manchester that have come to light and , indeed , go on to court : the case of Mr Reynhard Sinaga , who rape more than 50 man under the guise of be a Christian befriend those who be sleep rough in the evening . my right hon . friend the Member for Dumfriesshire , Clydesdale and Tweeddale ( David Mundell ) have mention his constituent Mandy and Colin Mackie , who create Spike Aware UK after their son Greg ' s tragic death follow a spiking . all three example be relatively unusual , partly because they have come to light , but also because they be all male on male . however , we know — both anecdotally and through research do by Stamp out Spiking , for example — that the vast majority of case be man on woman , especially in the night - time economy and particularly among university and college student , although by no mean exclusively . so there be a key element of violence against woman and girl in the whole business of spiking , which be another reason tackle it be so important . sceptic tend to ask , " so how many spike crime have be commit ? " that be an almost impossible question to answer , not just because there be currently no offence of " spike " , but because prove attempt or committed act of spike be hard , and the presence of drug in the body fade quite fast . that only emphasise why legislative change be necessary : once spike be an offence in its own right , those who have be spiked will get more support from the police , the CPS , the NHS and night - time economy venue . that be why many police force , include gloucestershire constabulary — my local force — and its chief constable , and pcc include Gloucestershire ' s excellent Chris Nelson , recognise that make spike an offence in its own right matter . it will enable proper data collection , encourage victim to come forward , and drive technical change to capture the evidence more effectively , and , crucially , it should result in an increase in simple messaging and a decrease in offence . if we can achieve all that through some crisp drafting by the Home Office and the Ministry of Justice , we will have do many people a great favour . it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Gloucester ( Richard Graham ) . this be an important bill that highlight the Government ' s commitment to improve our justice system and make our community safe . I would like to focus the majority of my remark on one aspect of the Bill that I be pleased to see have receive so much attention , which be antisocial behaviour . member across the House might well represent different party or political belief , but I be confident that I can safely say that we will all have receive complaint from our constituent about antisocial behaviour in one form or another . although it be formally consider to be low - level criminality , the reality be that , leave unchecked , antisocial behaviour cause frustration and misery to many , many law - abide citizen ; it be undoubtedly the area of criminal behaviour about which I receive the great amount of correspondence . I therefore particularly welcome clause 65 to 71 , which extend the maximum period of certain direction , reduce the minimum age for community protection notice and allow for the closure of premise by register social housing provider . I be confident that those provision will all bring tangible benefit to my constituent and those of hon . member across the House . I be also glad to see the proposal for review of antisocial behaviour by the local policing body , which I know be support by the excellent police and crime commissioner for Thames Valley , Matt Barber . it can often be difficult to know where exactly responsibility lie for tackle antisocial behaviour — whether it be with the local authority or the local police force , or whether a particular act might straddle the responsibility of both — as I highlight in Home Office question in May . propose new section 104A in clause 71 provide the opportunity to make real progress in resolve such difficulty , and as the PCC for Thames Valley , Mr Barber , tell I , it should provide more power to enact change and really stand up for resident . tackle antisocial behaviour do not mean always act after the event , though . indeed , one of the most effective crime - fight tool be to prevent crime from be commit in the first place and to divert those at risk of offend to more meaningful pursuit . in my constituency of Aylesbury , we have some excellent local initiative to provide activity for young people to help prevent they from become involve in criminality . I see that for myself just last Friday , when I spend the afternoon with the Aylesbury neighbourhood community police team , lead by Sergeant Clare Farrow . two of her pcso , Lee Abrahams and Rachel Matthews , join I at Southcourt baptist church in Aylesbury , where they help to run a weekly boxing club alongside the pastor and other member of the local community . the club have 100 young people on its book , and engage boy and girl from all part of Aylesbury ' s very diverse community . for some child it have help to build confidence , for other it have bring resolution between bully and victim , and for all it have provide a constructive activity , keep young people off the street and away from the temptation to become involved in criminal behaviour . so dedicated be PCSOs Lee and Rachel that they even give up their own time to go and help at the club when they be not on duty , and this service have rightly win they and their colleague the community police award for Thames Valley in the category of problem solve . it be problem solve that be key to successful neighbourhood policing , which need special skill and talent . the social enterprise Police now recruit officer specifically for that type of policing ; I be pleased to meet one of its undoubted success story , PC Elliott Jones , who have be work in Aylesbury for the past year . spend just a few hour with that neighbourhood team be genuinely inspiring , and I thank all the neighbourhood team in my constituency for their superb work . mindful of the time , I would like to touch briefly on a couple of the other measure outline in the Bill , give my previous experience as a magistrate and at his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service . I hope that the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , my hon . friend the Member for Newbury ( Laura Farris ) — who I be absolutely delighted to see on the Front Bench , have serve with she on the Justice Committee — can help to provide a little more detail on these measure , either now or at a later date . I absolutely recognise the reason for the Government ' s introduction in clause 22 of power to compel attendance at a sentencing hearing . I entirely understand the anguish that have be cause to victim of crime when the perpetrator of the offence have simply refuse to return to the dock , demonstrate , frankly , utter disdain for the harm that they have cause . but I be pleased that the power to produce the offender in court remain at the discretion of the judge , because it be the judge who will be well place to decide on the individual circumstance of a case . I would be keen to hear more from the Minister about how that might operate in practice , particularly if an offender refuse to leave prison to go to court in the first place . I be aware of case where force somebody to leave his cell and get on to the van would have take a very considerable number of prison officer . while one can reasonably say that that prisoner should be force to hear his sentence and face justice in person , the reality be that the prison officer involve be take away from their usual duty and responsibility . that could — indeed , likely would — impact the normal regime of the prison , which in turn would prevent other prisoner from engage in the work , education and training that can reduce their chance of reoffende . it be important that we get the balance right , and I be keen to hear how we will make sure that we do so . turn to the transfer of prisoner overseas , I be pleased that clause 28 make provision for his Majesty ' s chief inspector of prison to inspect overseas prison . however , as a former member of the independent monitoring board at HMP / YOI Feltham , I would be grateful if my hon . friend the Minister outline how she envisage condition be monitor on an ongoing basis . the role of imb be not necessarily as well know as it should be , perhaps even in this House , but to quote the IMB website , " IMB member be the eye and ear of the public , appoint by minister to perform a vital task : independent monitoring of prison and immigration detention . they report on whether the individual hold there be be treat fairly and humanely and whether prisoner be be give the support they need to turn their life around . this can make a huge difference to the life of those hold within these facility . " a critical element of that role be that IMB member can turn up at any time , unannounced , and go to any part of the prison they wish with their own set of key . I would be grateful if the Minister set out what equivalent provision will exist for overseas prison . there be much else in this Bill that be important , include measure to respond to change technology use by criminal , such as 3d printer . as someone whose own car be steal by thief access the vehicle by intercept the signal from an electronic key , I particularly welcome clause 3 . however , I do not wish to detain the House any far : I conclude simply by welcome the Bill , and the many way in which its provision will make the people of my Aylesbury constituency safe and more secure . I call the Opposition Front - Bench spokesman to wind up the debate . over the past 13 year , our criminal justice system — once the envy of the world — have crumble as a consequence of Tory mismanagement , but I pay tribute to the police and the court and probation staff who work hard in such difficult circumstance . victim in our country be leave traumatise , wait year for justice only to be let down again ; trial be delay for year on end and victim pay the price , with record number withdraw from their case . the Crown court backlog now stand at a record high of almost 65 , 000 case . there be a crisis in prison capacity , to the point where convict criminal be have to be let out early or be even not be sentence in the first place , despite the Government ' s fantasy plan to send prisoner aboard . the Home Secretary talk about power , but can the Minister tell we what discussion with credible partner country have take place to make that fantasy a reality ? simply put , this Conservative Government have fail in the first duty of Government : to keep its citizen safe . this Bill be further evidence of that continuous failure , and while it contain some measure that we on the Labour Benches welcome , it be the absence that be most glaring . the Bill contain no assurance at all that the exist system in our country be ready to cope with the many change it will introduce , as the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) recognise in her speech . time and again , this Government have fail to deliver the prison place we need . they have once again push back their deadline for deliver all 20 , 000 place , this time shift their own target from 2025 to 2030 . accord to the most recent debate , only 8 , 200 place be due to be deliver by 2025 , a shortfall of nearly 60 % . with 10 Justice Secretaries and eight home Secretaries in 10 year , this Government have focus on fight each other instead of fight for justice , and it be the british people who have pay the price . there have be repeat urgent warning go back year : the 2020 prison population projection predict a significant rise to 98 , 700 by September 2026 , and the National Audit Office also warn in 2020 that " demand for prison place could exceed supply between October 2022 and June 2023 . " after that warning from the NAO , the Government introduce a number of measure through the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 that add even more pressure to the capacity crisis . I be the shadow Minister on the Public Bill Committee at that time , and I raise my concern with the Minister , the right hon . member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) — he be just take his seat — who be now the Policing Minister . if the House will indulge I a little as I quote myself , in Committee I put it to the Minister : " the Opposition would welcome further information from he about the impact on the prison system … the impact be to be feel very shortly indeed , and at a time when our prison service be recover from the exceptional operational difficulty of the pandemic … give all the additional prisoner that the system will have to cope with in not just seven or eight year ' time but as early as next year " — this be last year — " how will the Government ensure that our prison do not become even more overcrowded and unsafe ? " – – [ Official Report , Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Public Bill Committee , 8 June 2021 ; c . 422 - 3 . ] so there it be : we be raise serious concern , but Ministers fob everyone off with the assurance that all would be well . however , we know that the building programme be now well behind and our prison be absolutely stuff . it be no way to run a government . as the Prison Reform Trust have say : " this lack of strategic approach mean that the prison service have be force to operate in an almost perpetual state of crisis . to cope , it have pursue short - term expediency over effective long - term planning . this have include a reprieve of prison accommodation which should have be decommission decade ago ; the use of police cell ; the rapid construction of temporary cell " — and — " a staff recruitment scheme work flat out to keep officer number stable " . indeed , it be only now that prison be completely at full capacity that we have see any sort of acknowledgement from the Government , and then only out of sheer necessity , not because they have some sort of new commitment to prison reform . the good the Government can do be a series of half - bake idea that do nothing to address the very serious and immediate issue of convict criminal who should be in prison be out on our street instead because there be not enough cell to put they in . I know most of those idea be contain in the Sentencing Bill , but as we have hear , this Bill contain the provision relate to the transfer of prisoner to foreign prison . however , these provision will make absolutely no impact on the current crisis because we do not have a deal in place with another country . it be nothing more than gesture politic . reduce demand on the prison system be also dependent on a robust probation service that can supervise and work with probationer to reduce crime , but there be a capacity crisis there too . probation delivery have be seriously undermine by the fail structural reform of this Conservative Government . the disastrous transforming rehabilitation reform have leave probation , in the word of the Public Accounts Committee , " underfunded , fragile and lack the confidence of the court . " the probation inspectorate have find " a critical lack of frontline staff " that have lead to " excessive caseload " . recent research have find that less than half of probation practitioner believe they have a manageable workload . the probation service need ambitious and transformative support from Government , but this Bill be yet another miss opportunity . while the extension of polygraph condition and the change to multi - agency public protection arrangement be welcome , it be an insult that these be all that be on offer from a Government who have drive probation into the ground . as my right hon . friend the Member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford ( Yvette Cooper ) say in her opening speech , there be a number of measure in the Bill that we actually support . first , I would like to refer to the speech by the hon . member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tracey Crouch ) , who feel the need to be blunt with her own colleague when address the outdated Vagrancy Act . she be right that aggressive rough sleeper need support , and that issue prevention order do nothing to address the underlying problem . we back the power to compel attendance by offender at sentencing hearing , and I pay tribute to Farah Naz , Cheryl Korbel , Ayse Hussein and Jebina Islam for their tireless campaign on this issue . however , it will be no surprise to the Government that we support this measure , since we have be call for new law to be introduce on this since April last year . let I give hon . member a preview of another request that we similarly invite the Government to borrow from we . we would like to see the Bill amend so that offender who have sexually harm child and be send to prison as a result lose the ability to control their own child from behind bar . this be a long overdue measure that will ensure all child be safe from these dangerous predator , include their own parent . we have have a good debate , and before conclude I would like to refer to some of the other speech make by our colleague . I be pleased to see my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) celebrate today , and I welcome the fact that her long campaign to stop sex offender change their name have come to fruition . she also go on to address all manner of other thing include action on the sharing of explicit image . my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , Chair of the Home Affairs Committee , speak of a campaign for a specific offence of spike . she speak of her Committee report on police and the work need to build trust within the community , and I be pleased to see that she have the cross - party support she want . the right hon . member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) say too many statistic have be bandy about but then go on to give some of her own — but she claim they be fact rather than statistic . yes , the Government might have go some way towards replace the police that they have cut over all those year , but it be the job they be do that matter and we need more of our police out on the street . my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) talk about the epidemic of knife crime in our community and the need for so much to be do , and the need for a public health approach and prevention as well . my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall ( Florence Eshalomi ) talk about the proposal for offender to face their sentencing in court but rightly question how that would work . she join in the concern about rough sleeper and make the point that they be more likely to be a victim of crime than to commit crime . and we would of course all expect a long and comprehensive speech from my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) , cover everything from police by consent to misconduct and shop crime to fraud . in this Bill , and indeed in the Sentencing Bill , there be a number of clause that will lead to more people be imprison or be imprison for long and we support many of they . however , it beggar belief that such proposal be put forward without any certainty whatsoever that the Government will be able to actually provide the prison place need . it be no good posturing on law and order when the criminal justice system be crumble as a result of 13 year of mismanagement by this Conservative Government . this Bill be yet another failure of this Government ' s record on justice , but we will work with Ministers to improve it where we can . it be a pleasure to close this important debate on the second reading of the Criminal Justice Bill , a Bill that put public protection and community confidence at its core . it have a strong empirical basis , build on the detailed work undertake by the Law Commission , by Baroness Casey into misconduct in the Metropolitan police , by Clare Wade KC into domestic homicide and coercive control , and by the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse . it consolidate the significant progress this Government have make since 2010 and it be disappointing to hear the right hon . member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford ( Yvette Cooper ) , the shadow Home Secretary , only rely on the statistic from police record crime when she know as well as I do that the Office for National Statistics say that the correct measure be the Crime Survey for England and Wales , which provide — will the Minister give way ? I will not because I have little time . that survey provide a more reliable measure of long - term trend than police record datum . will the Minister give way on that point ? if we use the correct measure , the regrettable conclusion for the opposition be that like - for - like crime be down by 56 % . will the Minister give way ? violent crime be down from where it be in 2010 by 52 % , and domestic burglary be down by 57 % . if we compare — [ interruption . ] if we compare where we be in 2019 to today — will the Minister give way ? domestic abuse , a sensitive category of crime , have fall between 2019 , before the pandemic , to today by 16 % . [ interruption . ] order . even the right hon . member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford ( Yvette Cooper ) have to understand that the Minister be not give way . my time be limited and I apologise for that . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . the Minister will know that the time be not limited . we do have time and she have name I . I do understand that she have the right not to take an intervention but she will also know that , have name I , as a courtesy to the House , she would normally do so . that be not strictly a point of order for the Chair . the right hon . Lady understand the procedure extremely well . the hon . member for Stockton North ( Alex Cunningham ) say that this Government have fail in their duty to keep citizen safe . it be regrettable that his Majesty ' s chief inspector of constabulary , Andy Cooke , take a different view . he have say : " England and Wales be arguably safe than they have ever be . " in the limited time I have available , I will address some of the point that come up today . I will respond in write to those whose speech I can not address . under this Bill , we be take the fight to serious organise criminal , cut off their capacity to churn out new firearm , mass - produce illegal drug and perpetrate fraud with device use multiple sim card . as my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) elegantly put it , we be design crime out . we be crack down on some of the most pernicious harm , which be often hide from view . we be develop recommendation of the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse , and we be develop the package of measure announce by the Prime Minister in April by create an obligation in law to treat grooming as an aggravating factor in sentencing . I congratulate the hon . member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) on the name change measure . I also pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Bolsover ( Mark Fletcher ) , who introduce a ten - minute rule Bill on that issue . I will just pick up on the point about mandatory reporting , which the House will know be the subject of a principal finding and recommendation of the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse . I hope that the hon . member for Rotherham agree that the measure be a good step forward . I will briefly address two other issue . make murder at the end of a relationship an aggravate factor , recognise that the moment of maximum danger for many victim be when they tell he finally that they be leave , be not the only thing we be do in that space . yesterday , the Ministry of Justice announce a consultation on whether coercive and control behaviour or the use of a knife or weapon that be already on the scene should become aggravating feature in any murder case . I pay tribute to Carole Gould and Julie Devey for their campaign on that . finally , I will address the point that be raise about whether the measure we be take adequately answer the finding of Baroness Casey in her report into misconduct in the Metropolitan police and our handling of it . the measure in the Bill be not the only one we be take . we be also act to ensure that any officer who can not hold appropriate vetting clearance can be remove from office and that a finding of gross misconduct will automatically result in summary dismissal , and we be give chief constable the right of appeal follow a misconduct hear if the conclusion be that one of their subordinate have not be subject to an adequate sanction . the depth and breadth of this debate highlight the need to stay ahead of criminal ingenuity through enhance supervision , interception and disruption , and by cut criminal off from the tool of their trade . we be develop legal principle that find their root in the Counter - Terrorism and Sentencing Act 2021 , the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 and the Online Safety Act 2023 . we be crack down on crime at every level . from antisocial behaviour all the way to serious organise crime , it blight our community and target the most vulnerable . I therefore commend this Bill to the House . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . Criminal Justice Bill ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Criminal Justice Bill : Committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Public Bill Committee ( 2 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on 30 January 2024 . ( 3 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . proceeding on consideration and Third Reading ( 4 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which those proceeding be commence . ( 5 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding on consideration and Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Scott Mann . ) question agree to . Criminal Justice Bill ( Money ) king ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Criminal Justice Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of : ( a ) any expenditure incur under or by virtue of the Act by a Minister of the Crown , and ( b ) any increase attributable to the Act in the sum payable under any other Act out of money so provide . — ( Scott Mann . ) question agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Trade Union and Labour Relations that the draft Code of Practice on reasonable Steps to be take by a Trade Union ( Minimum Service Levels ) , which be lay before this House on 13 November , be approve . — ( Scott Mann . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Rehman Chishti Jo Churchill Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy David Davis Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox George Freeman Mike Freer Louie french Marcus Fysh Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Simon Jupp Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Tom Pursglove will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob seely Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Greg Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Joy Morrissey Mark Jenkinson Debbie Abrahams Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Yvette Cooper Ronnie Cowan Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Yvonne Fovargue Gill Furniss Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Stephen McPartland Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris James Murray Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Steve Reed Christina Rees Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Alistair Strathern Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Catherine West Andrew Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Tonia Antoniazzi the House divide : Ayes 280 , Noes 199 . question accordingly agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , trade union that the draft Strikes ( Minimum Service Levels : Border Security ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 7 November , be approve . — ( Scott Mann . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Rehman Chishti Jo Churchill Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy David Davis Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox George Freeman Mike Freer Louie french Marcus Fysh Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Simon Jupp Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Tom Pursglove will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob seely Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Greg Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Joy Morrissey Mark Jenkinson Debbie Abrahams Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Yvette Cooper Ronnie Cowan Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Yvonne Fovargue Gill Furniss Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Stephen McPartland Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris James Murray Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Alistair Strathern Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Catherine West Andrew Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Tonia Antoniazzi the House divide : Ayes 285 , Noes 203 . question accordingly agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , that the draft Strikes ( Minimum Service Levels : passenger Railway Services ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 7 November , be approve . — ( Scott Mann . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Rehman Chishti Jo Churchill Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy David Davis Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox George Freeman Mike Freer Louie french Marcus Fysh Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Simon Jupp Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Kwasi Kwarteng John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Esther McVey Mark Menzies Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Tom Pursglove will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob seely Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Greg Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Joy Morrissey Mark Jenkinson Debbie Abrahams Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Ian Blackford Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Yvonne Fovargue Gill Furniss Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Stephen McPartland Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris James Murray Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Alistair Strathern Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Catherine West Andrew Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Tonia Antoniazzi the House divide : Ayes 281 , Noes 201 . question accordingly agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , that the draft Strikes ( Minimum Service Levels : NHS Ambulance Services and the NHS Patient Transport Service ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 7 November , be approve . — ( Scott Mann . ) the Deputy Speaker ' s opinion as to the decision of the Question be challenge , the Division be defer until tomorrow ( Standing Order No . 41a ) . Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Professional Qualifications that the draft Recognition of Professional Qualifications and Implementation of International Recognition Agreements ( Amendment ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 17 October , in the last session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Scott Mann . ) question agree to . Foreign Affairs order , that Sir Chris Bryant and Liam Byrne be discharge from the Foreign Affairs Committee and Dan Carden and Fabian Hamilton be add . — ( Rebecca Harris , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Petition - Policies relate to the climate and nature crisis 7 . 2 pm I rise to present a petition on policy relate to the climate and nature crisis . the petition state : the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that the UK Government need to significantly strengthen its manifesto and policy with respect to the climate and nature crisis , as call for by 2000 business professional and leader ; far that there need to be a rapid scale up in investment , and support essential training for the transition ; far that there need to be a more robust plan to restore nature and halt far decline by 2030 which would involve a National Plan for achieve nature target and robust regulatory framework enable our river , sea , food and farming to thrive ; and far that there need to be an end to new fossil fuel development in the UK include new licensing round and approval for oil and gas exploration , in line with call from the UN Secretary - General , climate scientist and the IEA . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take into account the concern of the petition and take immediate action to ensure that these three area be underpin with robust policy and regulation . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002877 ] Petition - Energy bill support I rise to present a petition on behalf of my constituent in Linlithgow and East Falkirk in relation to energy bill support . there be no doubt that we be in the midst of a rise cost of living crisis , with energy bill spiral . there be a great deal more that I believe the Government should be do to support people , such as an energy bill rebate or an emergency social tariff . however , the very least that should be do be that the Government should signpost the many good scheme that energy company be run to give support . my constituent therefore " request that the House of Commons urge the Government to publish accessible information on support available from all energy company so that those who be struggle financially maximise their chance of survive the cost of living crisis . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Linlithgow and East Falkirk , declare that whilst the Energy Cap have decrease , many people be still experience extreme difficulty pay energy bill for a number of reason include the lack of a UK Government Bill Energy Bill Support Scheme and the increase financial pressure from the cost of live generally ; note that whilst there be widespread , legitimate criticism of energy company many be provide some financial support to consumer in such circumstance but this be not widely know . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to publish accessible information on support available from all energy company so that those who be struggle financially maximise their chance of survive the cost of living crisis . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002881 ] tattoo artist , Body Piercers and Cosmetic Clinics : Licensing Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Scott Mann . ) early this year it be announce that Wales be set to become the first UK nation to introduce mandatory national licensing for what we call special procedure : tattoo artist and those work in body pierce , semi - permanent makeup , acupuncture and electrolysis . the licensing regime in Wales be be introduce under part 4 of the Public Health ( Wales ) Act 2017 . happily , section 180 of the Health and Care Act 2022 , pass by this place , give the Secretary of State the power to introduce a licensing regime in England . I be really glad that we be now do that and that our Government be take the issue seriously . in this very short debate , I be keen to hear from the Minister what the Government be do to speed up the introduction of that regime in England , something that the Health and Social Care Committee , which I chair , call for when it publish a report on body image back in 2022 . I want to mention my hon . friend the Members for Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) and for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) , who do good work on that regard when they be on that Committee . as we be all well aware , non - surgical cosmetic procedure such as Botox , dermal filler , chemical peel and aesthetic procedure such as tattooing and body pierce be soar in popularity . the beauty industry be value at an estimate £ 3 . 6 billion in the UK . that boom have be fuel by sale on social medium and in beauty shop on the high street . however , while these procedure be popular , they carry risk that must be manage to protect both those who undergo the procedure and those who provide they . at present , healthcare professional such as doctor , nurse and dentist who carry out non - surgical cosmetic procedure must be train and insure as part of the requirement lay down by their own regulatory body or Royal Colleges . however , there be no set training for beauty therapist and other non - professional , something that be a cause for concern and an issue that many respected practitioner have campaign on for some time . it be , after all , in their interest ; as the sector have boom , there have be a rise in people be physically and mentally harm by poorly perform procedure . the aesthetic sector have be describe to we by some , in part , as the " wild west " , which clearly be not ideal for anyone , patient or practitioner . far to that , a survey carry out by the British Association of Aesthetic Plastic Surgeons find that 69 % of its surgeon have see patient with complication follow temporary filler . again , that outline the need for the licensing scheme to be introduce and enforce . an estimate 900 , 000 botox injection be carry out in the UK each year , with 3 , 000 complaint register in 2022 . the public need to be educate on the risk ; they can not assume that someone who be carry out an aesthetic treatment be train . it go without say that people should take the time to find a reputable , insured and qualified practitioner , if they decide that such treatment be for they . to my mind , the licensing scheme be an important step towards well outcome for the industry and consumer and , I hope , towards remove rogue practitioner from the industry . practitioner must have adequate training to deal with complication and to minimise they in the first place . for instance , if a blood vessel be block while a patient be undergo a procedure , it could easily block the blood supply to their eye . I be contact with the horror story of one woman who be unable to open her eye for 16 week follow botox treatment . Wales open its 12 - week consultation on its licensing scheme in January of this year . the scheme aim to reduce infection , eliminate poor working practice and create a central public register for licensed practitioner and approve business premise . that be important as the industry continue to increase in popularity . the Welsh chief medical officer say at the time that he be " very pleased that these impending change have be widely welcome by practitioner in Wales , with many already volunteer to meet the new standard . " one tattoo shop owner who have be work with the Welsh Government on the new qualification say — this be widely report — that : " the increase in quality of tattoo in the last decade have be exponential so the hygiene need to be raise . this be all positive for the industry and help shake the image of it be dark and shady . it ' s reassure for those get tattooed as well . " I obviously very much agree with that statement , which show why we need further legislation — or regulation off the back of legislation — in England to protect both client and practitioner . in answer to a write question early this month , the Welsh Government confirm that the aim be for their statutory licensing scheme to come into force in the summer of 2024 , when it will initially apply to the four special procedure specify in their 2017 Act : electrolysis , body pierce , tattooing and acupuncture . as I say , I be pleased when the Health and Care Act 2022 introduce power for the Secretary of State to establish a mandatory licensing scheme in England , follow call for great regulation of non - surgical cosmetic treatment — not least from my Select Committee . it be important that the scheme be introduce soon rather than later , which we emphasise in our report on body image . it be positive when the consultation in England finally open at the beginning of September this year with pretty much the same intention as the Welsh piece of work . however , concern have be raise with I by those in the industry that the consultation in England have be far too heavily biased towards medical input rather than input from those in the cosmetic industry , which make up a large part of the sector . as part of our body image inquiry in 2022 , the Health and Social Care Committee recommend that the introduction of licensing for non - surgical cosmetic procedure be make a priority and introduce by July this year . the Committee also suggest that a safety taskforce be set up to bring stakeholder together , but I understand that the Government decide not to follow that route . the National Hair and Beauty Federation say that it be concern that the Government have not reach out to an adequately broad range of stakeholder . why have the Government not pursue the route recommend by the Select Committee ? in the pre - consultation phase , it be feel that more medical organisation than beauty organisation be consult , which the NHBF have suggest cause a bias towards the medical sector . that be create concern that route into aesthetic via the beauty sector will therefore be restrict , which will have obvious consequence for many legitimate and reputable business . it also create the risk that the new regulatory regime may drive some practice into the underground market rather than increase quality and standard across the industry , which be what we be aim to see . the NHBF also say in September that it have write to the Government twice this year regard the new licensing scheme but be yet to receive a response . maybe that have be update since . when implement mandatory licensing , we need to ensure that we establish a framework that demand a high standard of care and proficiency from all practitioner . far to that , another issue that need to be address by the national scheme be procedure carry out in tattoo and pierce studio in England , which be currently subject to regulation by local council . as there be no national scheme , we currently lack the reassurance need . practitioner need to contact the local council where their premise be base to get a tattoo , pierce or electrolysis licence . they must then register both themselves and the premise with the local council . however , registration be a fairly simple process , there be no requirement for the provision of proof of qualification , and local authority have few power to refuse a registration . the current licence with local authority cover tattooing , semi - permanent skin colouring , cosmetic piercing , electrolysis and acupuncture . local council do , it must be say , conduct regular inspection of premise to ensure that they be compliant with health and safety law , and there be a requirement for every tattoo artist to be license by their local council . to remind the House , tattoo without a licence or tattoo certificate be illegal . however , the fact that licensing be determine by local council in England mean it differ on what standard must be meet across the country by those who apply . for example , some council demand that all practitioner have access to their own sink , while other be happy for share sink , which risk cross contamination — pose a health risk . a new compulsory licensing scheme would ensure that both client and practitioner be adequately protect , and practitioner would have to abide by the same rule across England . the purpose of registration with council be to protect the public from the transmission of blood - bear virus such as HIV , hepatitis B , hep C and other infection , and to ensure that the health and safety regulation be follow . I think a national licensing scheme would increase this protection . as I have already set out , although section 180 of the Health and Care Act enable the Secretary of State to establish a licensing scheme , it be yet to be fully enact . the consultation process close a month ago today , and the advance to implement this hugely important scheme have be slow in England . when do the Minister think the Government will respond to the consultation ? there be four key priority that must be address in the new licensing scheme to make sure that there be adequate protection for practitioner and client . the first be the design and implementation of the national licensing scheme for all premise , as well as practitioner of non - surgical cosmetic procedure , to ensure that those who practise invasive procedure be competent and safe for member of the public — our constituent . secondly , all practitioner must hold the correct insurance to provide these procedure . thirdly , there need to be official guidance on the training and qualification expectation of all practitioner , such as the knowledge and application of infection control and first aid training should thing go wrong . fourthly and finally , we need a system that effectively record adverse incident and public awareness raise so that all case that go wrong can be track . I think such a system would dramatically improve safety standard . it would also ensure that member of the public be well equipped , as they would have well tool and knowledge surround the procedure and the practitioner that they be use . the Government do assure the Joint Council for Cosmetic Practitioners , the British Beauty Council and the Chartered Institute of Environmental Health that they be commit to the licensing of the non - surgical aesthetic sector in England , so I ask the Minister when we can expect to see further action , follow the consultation that I have mention . I commend the hon . gentleman for bring this debate forward . my council , Ards and North Down Borough Council , have a policy in relation to piercing specifically . it have initiate a pierce guideline policy to make both piercer and those who get piercing aware of the guideline and policy that , in its word , " must " be follow . do he agree that there could be more discussion of provide this information — in local school , for example — because many people who get piercing be under 18 year of age , and be often naive to the guideline and hygiene policy that piercer must follow ? educate they early : do the hon . Gentleman agree ? we have enough debate in this House about some of the thing that we teach in school , and I can but imagine some of the response we would get to this , but in my view education can never be a bad thing . there be nothing wrong with tattooing and piercing . it be not my personal choice — I do not know about the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) — but if people be go to do it , I think they should go with their eye , or any other part of themselves , wide open ; and that be why the hon . Gentleman ' s point on education be well make . [ interruption . ] do that amuse you , Mr Deputy Speaker ? in closing , would it be possible for the Minister to outline the timeline , even in rough term , for the introduction of the licensing scheme ? finally , I understand that it be complicated and a bit like peel an onion — the more you take , the more you find — could the Government outline which procedure will fall under the new licensing scheme ? on that , I will close ; I look forward to hear from the Minister . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Winchester ( Steve Brine ) on secure this important debate and reiterate the Government ' s commitment to improve patient safety in this area . we recognise that for some time , there have be concern about the lack of regulation of these procedure , both here and abroad , the danger they can pose to consumer and the long - term impact when they go wrong . as my hon . Friend point out , we have hear many horrific story , both in this Chamber and in Westminster Hall , about what can go wrong when procedure be do poorly or consumer or patient experience side effect that they be not expect . as my hon . Friend point out , there be exist regulation for body pierce and tattooing , which I will touch on in a moment . however , we take this area so seriously that the Health and Care Act 2022 give the Secretary of State power to introduce a licensing scheme for non - surgical cosmetic procedure in England . the scheme we intend to introduce in England will be more extensive than the Welsh scheme that my hon . friend mention ; it will cover more than the four area outline in the Welsh Government ' s recent piece of work . obviously , we have just hold our consultation , and at the moment we be look to see whether the scheme will also cover some of the exist power around tattoo and piercing that be enforce by local council . we want the licensing scheme that we intend to introduce to support people in make an informed choice , and to ensure that when they make their choice , they experience safe care for any non - surgical cosmetic procedure . we want the scheme to address three area , the first of which be to ensure that service be administer by suitably train and qualified practitioner . that do not necessarily mean regulated healthcare professional , but it do mean that anyone who undertake procedure must be train and qualified to do so . we also want practitioner to hold appropriate indemnity cover , so that they and the patient they be treat be cover should something go wrong , and to be operate from premise that have appropriate standard of hygiene and cleanliness . as my hon . Friend say , we have be work closely with many professional from a variety of background to start the process of introduce the licensing scheme . the cosmetic procedure sector include a vast and expand range of treatment and technique . we want to future - proof regulation so that we cover as many emerge technique , treatment and procedure as possible — we do not want to be revise regulation on a regular basis — and cover a wide range of practitioner and business . we want those business to thrive — they contribute to our economy and provide a very popular service — but we need to make sure that they be safe and well regulated , so that those undergo procedure be safe and can make informed choice about treatment . in introduce the licensing scheme , we need to make sure that we consider all eventuality . there be a number of factor to consider , from who undertake the procedure to the type of procedure that be cover and who undertake inspection once the regulation be introduce . through our engagement , we have develop proposal on which treatment be to be include , who should be permit to perform they , and whether age restriction need to be introduce for certain procedure . as my hon . Friend say , we roll out an initial consultation , which close at the end of last month . we receive over 12 , 000 response from across England , which be a pretty significant number of response to a Government consultation ; we do not normally get so many . to reassure my hon . friend , 43 % of those response be from aesthetic practitioner and about 40 % be from the various regulated health professional , so there be an even mix of practitioner and regulated healthcare professional . we receive a fair balance of view , and we be work through the response at speed . I thank everyone who respond , because the consultation will inform how the regulation be develop . over the next 12 month , we will work through the consultation response and set out exactly which procedure will be cover by the regulation ; the education and training standard that will be require of practitioner ; the type of premise that will be allow ; the type of licence fee that will be introduce , if any ; and who will enforce the regulation to ensure that they be comply with . that will take time — we estimate that it will take most of next year — but I can assure my hon . friend that it be crucial . like he , I think that we would be able to get this do pretty swiftly , but once we start to unearth which procedure should be cover , who should be do they and the type of premise they should be operate from , it be a can of worm . it be really important that we take the time to get this right , so that we have a really robust , extensive and safe regulatory licensing scheme in operation across England . my hon . friend touch on tattoo and piercing . as he say , those be regulate by measure such as the Local Government ( Miscellaneous Provisions ) Act 1992 and the Local Government Act 2003 , as well as legislation specific to geographical area of England . the exist legislation give local authority the power to register practitioner and their premise , and to take enforcement action if practitioner be not abide by byelaw . he be right that that vary across England , but the measure local authority undertake do reduce the risk of transmission of blood - bear virus such as HIV and hepatitis B and C . the Department have a model byelaw template — if local authority want to introduce that in their local area , they can contact we for it — to try to get as much consistency as possible . we be look at whether tattoo and piercing should also come under the non - surgical cosmetic procedure regulation . we be engage with those sector to see whether we should have one wide piece of legislation and regulation , or a dual system , because many tattoo and piercing practitioner feel that that work quite well for they right now . we have not rule out a change , but it be important to note that , as the legislation stand , there be already regulation for tattoo and piercing , which should be be enforce by local authority up and down the country . I want to touch on cosmetic procedure abroad , because that be become more of a topical issue . as cost rise and procedure be often cheap abroad , it be so important that we make sure that people from the UK travel for non - surgical cosmetic procedure be inform about the risk and do their research before they travel . while excellent healthcare be available internationally , we be aware of tragic case — even case in which people have lose their life — arise from treatment outside the UK . our team be actively engage with international partner to consider how good we can support people consider travel abroad for such treatment . have a safe , regulated system in England will help inform people that , if they be travel abroad , the country involve should be operate to the same standard as the licensing scheme we be intend to introduce in England . I absolutely understand the urgency with which my hon . friend want to see the licensing scheme come forward . that be why we introduce the power in the Health and Care Act , but this be a complex area . we need to decide who will undertake these procedure and which procedure will be cover , and to future - proof so that we cover as many as possible . we also need to look at the premise that practitioner be operate from and who the regulator will be . it could be the Care Quality Commission , local government , the Nursing and Midwifery Council or the General Medical Council , which all have a role to play in this . there be a lot to decide before the legislation and regulation come before we . I can assure my hon . friend that we will be work to respond to the consultation early in the new year , and we will then set out the framework for the legislation . we will conduct a further consultation on that before finally announce it , because , as he say , there be concern across the sector . there will also be an interim period so that , if we introduce mandatory training for practitioner , there be time for those operate in this space to take on qualification and training , to upgrade their premise or to look at which procedure they undertake . we want to ensure that those who can practise safely have the time to develop their skill and upgrade their premise accordingly . I assure my hon . friend we will consult again so people will be fully aware of the change come through . I look forward to work with my hon . friend and his Select Committee to make sure that we have an extensive scheme of regulation across England as quickly as possible , but also that it be robust and meet the need , most importantly of patient , but of the sector as well . question put and agree to . House adjourn .