Speaker ' s statement last night , the hon . member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) present a petition from the solicitor to the Omagh bombing inquiry , ask for access to unreported evidence from the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee inquiry into the bombing on 15 August 1998 . I have also receive a letter from the hon . member for Gower and the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) ask that this matter be give precedence as a matter of privilege on the ground that " we suggest that the House should be give an opportunity to consider that petition , but it be profoundly unsatisfactory for it to have to make a decision without any ability for any member to assess the propriety of release the evidence or of the privilege issue which may be raise by refer such material to a statutory inquiry which we understand be ' a place out of Parliament ' for the purpose of article 9 of the Bill of Rights " . I have consider the issue and decide that this be a matter for which I should allow the precedence accord to issue of privilege . the hon . member may therefore table a motion to be debate on Monday . the motion will be take after any urgent question or statement and before the Government business . it will be available to member once it have be table , which will be before the rise of the House today . oral Answers to Questions Cabinet Office the Minister for the Cabinet Office be ask — UK - EU Trading Relationship what assessment his Department have make of the effectiveness of the new trading relationship with the EU . what assessment his Department have make of the effectiveness of the new UK - EU trading relationship . we have reset our relationship with the European Union , and be now focus on deliver a long - term strategic partnership to improve the life of work people and make the UK more prosperous . that be good for bill , good for our border and good for job . in 1973 , the UK join the European Economic Community , which later become the European Union . give this week ' s visit by the french President and this Government ' s desire for close co - operation with the EU , will the Minister confirm that no new or exist trade deal will lead to this country rejoin the EU through the back door ? that be absolutely not the case . what we have with the European Union be a new deal that the supermarket say have put a downward pressure on price , and which Octopus Energy say will bring the cost of energy down . I be surprised to hear that reform be against that , but since it have welcome Liz Truss ' s party chairman as a new member today , perhaps it be no surprise that Reform take that view . yesterday on " Farming Today " at 5 . 45 am , it be put to a shellfish farmer that it be go to become much easy for she to export her produce to the European Union . her response be , " yes , but we be tell that the change will be two or perhaps four year away , if they happen at all . " give what we have negotiate away , can those change be expedite ? I be determined to expedite these new arrangement as quickly as possible . it be fantastic to see the opposition take that position — I think the right hon . Gentleman ' s Front Benchers be against they . I call the shadow Minister . as the Minister will be aware , under the exist framework , the UK be entitle to take unilateral measure to protect the internal market where there be a diversion of trade . the Federation of Small Businesses Northern Ireland say that a third of business that previously trade between Great Britain and Northern Ireland have cease to do so . we know from his interview yesterday that the Minister do not consider three quarter of deportation be voluntary to represent a majority , but do he consider a third of business to be a diversion of trade ? if he do not , what would be a diversion of trade ? on 1 July , we introduce the phase 3 check under the Windsor framework . the Windsor framework be negotiate by the previous Government , and we support it from the Opposition Benches . I assume that the Conservatives continue to support those arrangement . obviously , we monitor the issue of trade diversion very carefully , and we stand ready to help business adjust to the new arrangement . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . a few month ago , this Government reach a small but welcome trade agreement with the EU — our large trading partner — and just this week , member of this House hear from the President of France , Emmanuel Macron , about the closeness of the relationship between the UK and France . it be the first state visit by a french President since 2008 and the first by a European Union political leader since Brexit . now that UK - EU relation be at a turning point , do the Minister agree that it be finally time to be more ambitious , drop the red line , cut the red tape , and aim to negotiate a UK - EU custom union that would boost the public coffer by £ 25 billion a year ? we have deliver an ambitious new trading arrangement with the European Union . we have also deliver a new free trade agreement with India and an economic deal with the United States . what the hon . Lady be suggest would take away our freedom to be able to do that , which be contribute to our economy . visa : Schengen Area what discussion he have have with his EU counterpart on visa rule for UK citizen visit the Schengen area for 90 in 180 day . government official and Ministers , include I , regularly engage the EU on a range of issue of importance to british citizen . the UK and the EU allow for visa travel in line with the standard arrangement for third - country national . the UK Government will continue to listen to and advocate for british citizen . many thousand of constituent , include Philip and Kathryn in my constituency , live for part of the year in Spain . prior to Brexit , they do so without restriction , but now they face limited visa option , result in more frequent flying . what conversation have the Minister have with Spain ' s Government about end these barrier ? I thank Philip and Kathryn for raise this issue , and I know my hon . friend be a powerful advocate for they . the Foreign Office lead on bilateral issue with EU member state , and they regularly engage on a range of issue . while we recognise that extend the 90 / 180 day period be a matter for member state and the EU , my hon . friend can be assure that we will continue to listen to and advocate for UK national affect . as the Minister know , Northern Ireland be in that wonderful limbo land of movement — half in the United Kingdom and half in the EU , because of the unfinished protocol Bill . can he tell we how those in Northern Ireland will be affect by the Schengen area due to the particular , and perhaps peculiar position they be in as a result of the protocol ? Northern Ireland have the unique advantage of dual market access . on the wide issue of application of EU law that the hon . Gentleman be talk about , he can be assure that as co - chair of the joint committee I work carefully and closely on these matter with the Northern Ireland Executive . Civil Service Relocation what step he be take to relocate civil service role to location outside London . my hon . friend and parliamentary neighbour be absolutely right to raise the importance of have a civil service presence around the country . he will know the importance of the Ministry for Housing , Communities and Local Government presence in Wolverhampton to the local area . we want to see half of our UK - base senior civil servant locate outside London by 2030 . we recently announce plan to relocate thousand of civil service role to town and city across the whole UK . I thank my right hon . friend for his answer . I do indeed feel blessed to have the dual head - quarter of the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government , which employ more than 250 people , right next to my constituency office in Wolverhampton West . I welcome the Government ' s plan to move civil servant role out of London into community such as mine . will my right hon . friend please set out how these role will work closely with business , the City of Wolverhampton council and community in my constituency , as well as help my constituent to pursue career as civil servant ? my hon . friend raise some good point . we do not just want to see building with no connection to the local community ; it be important that they have that connection . I also want to ensure good career progression in civil service building outside London . I recently announce a new civil service apprenticeship scheme so that we can recruit people from all background to the civil service and make sure that they can get promote and enjoy a good civil service career . the last Government see civil servant job relocate not just to Wolverhampton , but to Stoke - on - Trent . it be important that the very top level of the civil service be also locate outside of London , so will the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster set out how many permanent secretary be currently locate permanently outside London ? what step will he take to ensure that more permanent secretary be locate in both Wolverhampton and Stoke - on - Trent ? we do not have a permanent secretary in Wolverhampton , but it be important that there be career progression and that there be senior role outside London . that should include permanent secretary , and that should all come within our target of half of UK - base senior civil servant be locate outside London by 2030 . I call the shadow Minister . head of Departments have say that 60 % attendance in the office be the good balance for civil servant work in Government Departments , but in an answer to a recent write parliamentary question from my hon . friend the Member for Kingswinford and South Staffordshire ( Mike Wood ) , the Cabinet Office say that no data exist for attendance outside London HQs — it be certainly not collect centrally . however , the Office for National Statistics have produce datum about its own workforce , which , via the UK Statistics Authority , come under the Cabinet Office . that show a daily attendance rate of as little as 3 % in some of the ONS ' s regional office . do the Minister think that an attendance rate of 3 % will help career progression and thereby help relocate civil servant outside London ? do he think that 3 % be acceptable ? be this not just part of a wide pattern of non - attendance in office outside London , and be it not time his Department publish the datum on attendance level ? there have be problem at the Office for National Statistics . we launch a report into it , which have recently report , and there will be a change in the leadership of the Office for National Statistics , as the right hon . Gentleman be aware . that report highlight the number of people not work in the office — a pattern that emerge when his party be in power . I hope that the new leadership address every part of the recent report into the ONS . the Government recently announce a number of measure to reform the civil service , include cut up to 10 , 000 job and relocate thousand of role across the country . these reform be vast in scope and could have a significant impact on public service , but the Government do not seem particularly interested in set out to Parliament the detail of the change . this House have not be give any clarity to enable proper scrutiny of which role will be move , cut or otherwise change . when will the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster present his full plan on civil service reform to Parliament ? on 14 May , the Government announce the launch of new thematic campus in Aberdeen and Manchester and the closure of 11 building , and reaffirm the commitment on relocate 50 % of senior role outside London , which I just mention . the hon . Lady say these be vast commitment , but I think we need to go fast . reform of the state be essential , and those commitment will not be the end of civil service and state reform . relation with the European Union what step he be take to improve relation with the EU . what step he be take to improve relation with the EU . what step he be take to improve relation with the EU . on 19 May , we hold the first ever UK - EU summit and announce a strategic partnership that will make people across the UK safe , more secure and more prosperous . we be deliver great security via the security and defence partnership , increase safety through tackle irregular migration and organised crime , and prosperity through the removal of trade barrier , energy efficiency and a cheap transition to net zero . that be good for bill , good for job and good for border . I thank my right hon . friend the Minister for his answer . give that he lead on UK - EU relation , will he outline how the Cabinet Office will ensure that the new sanitary and phytosanitary agreement will reduce the level of check on good at both the Eurotunnel terminal in Folkstone , in my constituency , and the Port of Dover , and improve the flow of trade ? what step be be take to far break down barrier to trade in good with the EU ? my hon . and learn Friend be a powerful advocate for his constituent in Folkestone and Hythe . the SPS agreement will remove routine border check and certification , include for good travel through folkestone and the Port of Dover . it will mean that fresh produce will hit supermarket shelf more quickly , with less paperwork and few cost . the new agreement with the EU will help scottish business to grow and to export . world - class producer such as Glenmorangie whisky , which be bottle in my constituency , Paterson ' s shortbread , which be bake in my constituency , and the scottish salmon industry have warmly welcome the deal for Scotland . why do the Minister think that the SNP , the Tories and Reform have set their face against it ? my hon . friend speak very powerfully for his local business , and I be delighted that great produce such as Paterson ' s shortbread , Lorne sausage and scottish seed potato will benefit from easy and cheap trade with the EU via the SPS agreement . any party that want to reverse that will have to explain why it want to take £ 9 billion - worth of benefit a year by 2040 away from our economy . do the Minister agree with I that , after year of the Conservatives pick fight with our most important ally rather than work with they on the share challenge we face , our recently agree trade deal and our close co - operation on security and migration show the benefit of a grow - up approach to improve relation with our european partner ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the trade and co - operation agreement leave a massive gap in our ability to tackle irregular migration . the agreement we have now make with the EU start the process of fill that gap through a comprehensive partnership . it include enhance our operational relationship to tackle organise immigration crime and irregular migration with key agency such as Europol . this Government have a track record of announce trade deal and then nothing actually happen , as our steel sector can attest . two month on from the Prime Minister crow about a deal with the EU , will the Minister confirm whether any legal text have be agree on SPS check , share criminal record datum and energy co - operation , and whether any of those measure have be implement ? if the hon . member be seriously say that our trade deal make no difference , he should visit Jaguar Land Rover and speak to the worker there , whose job be save by the economic deal with the United States . he be absolutely right to say that the new common understanding be not in itself a legal text , but we will be move to agree that legal text as soon as possible . give the question from conservative Back Benchers so far , they all seem to want it do as soon as possible , despite the opposition from those on their Front Bench . if the last nine year have teach we nothing else , they have surely teach we that it be much easy to agree about the need for an agreement than it be to reach an agreement . the SPS agreement will be critical for food and drink export . we be only go to get one chance on this , so to get it right we need maximum engagement with the company and business do the exporting . what be the Minister do to ensure that their voice be hear in these negotiation and that the agreement suit they ? the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right , which be why I have engage throughout . the domestic advisory group under the previous trade and co - operation agreement contain a range of stake - holder , and I regularly speak to they , but I go beyond that in my work with stakeholder . he be right that it be hugely important that their voice be hear in the process of agree the legal text on the SPS agreement . while we await the detail of the SPS deal , Northern Ireland be still see new and additional bureaucracy to implement the Windsor framework . do the Minister agree that it would make more sense to extend the grace period and put a freeze on that bureaucracy rather than introduce more , as indicate in the report by the Federation of Small Businesses in Northern Ireland ? on our ability to negotiate generally , it be hugely important that we show good faith in implement the agreement that the country previously agree . however , I say to the hon . Gentleman that I always show pragmatism on implement the Windsor framework . if we take parcel , for example , when I go to Belfast last summer I be tell that there be no readiness for business there , but I apply for and secure a six - month delay , and then implement that part of the agreement , so he can be assure that I take a pragmatic approach . plan for Change what recent progress he have make on implement the plan for change . our plan for change be already deliver the change the country vote for a year ago . great British Energy , headquarter in Aberdeen , be invest £ 1 billion in offshore wind supply chain , benefit worker in our industrial heartland . Britain have the high growth in the G7 in the first quarter of this year , interest rate have be cut four time and wage be rise fast than price . there be more to do , but after 14 year of decline under the Tories and almost two decade of SNP rule in Scotland , the country be turn a corner with this Labour Government . last week , the Health Secretary share his plan to improve the NHS by give patient more control over their treatment . patient in England be now able to book appointment and order their prescription on the NHS app . with the lack of an NHS app in Scotland be describe as a " national embarrassment " , do the Minister agree with I that people live in Scotland be be leave behind ? my hon . friend make an important point . under this Labour Government , NHS waiting list be fall and we have an ambitious plan for the future of the NHS . under the SNP , Scotland have an analogue Government in a digital age , and Scotland ' s patient be miss out . Scotland need a new direction , which I hope it will take with Anas Sarwar ' s Scottish Labour party next year . yesterday , I meet member of the spanish Senate , with whom I discuss energy security and how to bring down energy bill for our resident on either side of the channel . it be clear that energy trading between the EU and the UK do not work properly . what can we do , and what progress have be make , to improve the interconnector and make the investment that be so necessary ? order . I be not quite sure whether it be relevant , but please answer if you be happy to , Minister . it be in the common understanding , and we want a deep relationship with our partner in the EU on this issue . I call the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster . in their plan for change , the Government pledge to get the country the high sustained growth in the G7 — or back to where the Conservative Government leave it . however , it seem that this Government be on course to fail . all respected international analysis — by the OECD , the World Bank , the International Monetary Fund and so on — suggest that over the next four year , the UK economy will grow nothing like as fast as the United States or Canada . what analysis can the Minister point to that suggest otherwise ? since come into government a year ago , we have take measure to fix the mess leave behind by the Conservatives . that be why , in the first quarter of this year , we be the fast grow economy in the G7 ; interest rate have go down four time , mean people be pay less on their mortgage ; and wage be rise fast than price . that be the difference that a Labour Government make . it be no surprise that the Minister could not point to any analysis , because no such analysis exist . that be because the Government have no plan for growth . they do have a plan for tax , and they have a plan for borrowing — much more borrowing . the Office for Budget Responsibility ' s excoriate report early this week highlight just how dangerous that be . indeed , under this Government , there be the very real prospect of a sovereign debt crisis . where be the Government ' s plan to avoid that ? it be not clear that the market can wait until November . our plan for growth be central to this mission - drive Government . our investment in housing — build 1 . 5 million home — will add £ 7 billion to the economy by the end of the Parliament . we be get build , with spade in the ground on our rail and road project , and get on where the Tories fail this country for 14 year . plan for Change : track Dashboard what progress he have make on publish a tracking dashboard for the plan for change metric . what progress he have make on publish a tracking dashboard for the plan for change metric . what progress he have make on publish a tracking dashboard for the plan for change metric . our plan for change be already deliver for the british people , as the Minister without Portfolio , my right hon . friend the Member for Lewisham West and East Dulwich ( Ellie Reeves ) , have just say : wage up more in the first 10 month of our Government than in 10 year under the previous Government ; a new nuclear age with £ 14 billion commit to build Sizewell C as a critical part of our clean energy transition ; and NHS waiting list down by more than 200 , 000 for the first time in year . what a contrast to the record of the Conservatives . will the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster reassure the House that once he have actually start publish the tracking dashboard for the plan for change , the six milestone will not go the same way as the three foundation , the six first step for change , the five mission and the seven pillar of growth , and that it will not be abandon and replace when the Government realise they be miss their target ? if the hon . Gentleman want more fact about delivery , let I help he out right now . last week we launch the big social and affordable housing programme in a generation , meet a need that have be unmet for year in this country ; we have extend free school meal to half a million more child ; and this year , we will be put 3 , 000 more neighbourhood police back on the beat . I be very happy to give the hon . Gentleman all the figure he want . give that the Government ' s plan for change track dashboard be still in development , can I ask the Minister to include a column or facility to track all the u - turn — or , as the Government may prefer to call it , " the change to the Plan for Change ( subject to Change ) " ? that way , the public can see where those U - turn have take place , such as on winter fuel payment , the grooming gang inquiry and welfare reform . it would also help Labour Back Benchers to keep up with the Government ' s current position . I hear a cry for more delivery statistic , so let I help the hon . Member out . we have also recruit 1 , 500 new GPs , deport 30 , 000 people with no right to be here , and expand free school meal to lift 100 , 000 child out of poverty . he be welcome . the Government be clearly very happy to claim that all be rosy after their first year in power , yet on the ground in my constituency and around the country , the opposite story be be tell . the Government ' s policy be hit my constituent hard — whether it be the impact of increase national insurance contribution on local charity , the prospect of more red tape for landlord , or move the goalpost for the most vulnerable . give the Government ' s amazing claim , why be they so reticent to share the plan for change metric in one place , so that the good people up and down the United Kingdom can see the reality of this Labour Government in hard fact ? More stat ! the hon . Lady seem to want more delivery stat , so let I help she out . as my right hon . friend , the Minister without Portfolio , say , we have have the high growth of any G7 economy in the first quarter of this year , cut in interest rate and an expansion of the warm home discount , which will mean that 6 million household will benefit from well insulate house . I do not claim , in read out these statistic , that everything be perfect — far from it — but I do believe that we have have change in the past year : change in the investment pattern of the country ; change in real wage ; and change in our trading position . that be change well worth have . [ Official Report , 1 September 2025 ; Vol . 772 , c . 2wc . ] ( correction ) Public Service Reform what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to reform public service . for too long , resident and frontline worker have have to navigate fragmented and underfunded service , and have have to arm up for battle when use public service . from our Best Start strategy to new neighbourhood health centre , we be reform public service , so that money be invest in prevention , service be design with and for local community , and people always come first . do the Minister agree that , while waiting list in England be fall thank to billion of pound of investment into our national health service , it be an absolute disgrace that , despite record level of money be provide to the Scottish Government , waiting list in Scotland continue to rise ? as my hon . friend have set out , since Labour come to power , we have see waiting list continue to fall , with our 2 million new appointment , but the scottish people have not see the same benefit . luckily , though , they do not need to wait long to vote for a Labour Government with a plan to change that . public Bodies : Duty of Candour if he will bring forward legislative proposal to introduce a legal duty of candour on public body . we be fully commit to introduce a Hillsborough law , include a legal duty of candour for public servant and criminal sanction for those who refuse to comply . we have be engage with the family and we will continue to do so . there be a long list of mps , Ministers and Prime Ministers on both side of the House who enable the establishment cover - up at Hillsborough , which deny justice to the victim and survivor . there have be only a few honourable exception of politician who do the right thing . the establishment be a powerful force , and it take real courage to confront its deep - rooted fear of accountability . give that the Government have so far fail to deliver their promise to enact the Hillsborough law , do the Minister recognise that this be a continuation of the betrayal of the Hillsborough family , survivor and all those affect by state cover - up ? if he do recognise that , will he support the second reading of the Hillsborough law that I have table tomorrow — and if not , why not ? first , I pay tribute to the work that my hon . friend have do . I know that he speak on this matter from live experience . he be , have be and will continue to be , an extraordinarily powerful advocate for the Hillsborough family . the assurance that I give he be that the Government be absolutely determined to get this right . Public Service Delivery what support his Department be provide to local partnership to improve public service delivery . one of the good part of my job be to travel round the country and see the amazing work that local public service partnership be do . our test , learn and grow programme have be set up to get behind frontline innovator and to trial new approach . this bring together central Government with those on the frontline — local council and community — so that we can learn from what be work and then scale it up to improve thing for people . it be really good to hear about that partnership work with local community and local government . in June , I have the privilege of go to the launch of a new innovative partnership between the University of Surrey and Guildford and Waverley borough council , which be seek to apply the university ' s global research expertise to real - world problem face by local community , from create well housing to address the shortage of planner . how will the Government support important initiative like this , which seek to deliver on the Government ' s aim to innovate and improve public service delivery and which matter even more as local government reorganisation progress across Surrey ? as I say , one of the good part of my job be get to visit amazing project like that partnership , and I would be delighted to see the work that be happen there . our mission be not just for Government but for the whole country . we need council , university and community to come together , so that partnership be incredibly important . as I set out , the test , learn and grow programme be about find those innovator and partnership and spread great practice . I look forward to hear more about it . public Procurement Reform what step he be take to reform public procurement . two week ago , we set out our plan to make sure that the billion this Government be invest in road , hospital and railway will mean good job , skill and opportunity in community around the UK . our plan will recognise industry that be critical to our national security , protect UK resilience in sector such as steel and energy . create high - quality british job and boost skill in local community will be key requirement for company to win contract for large infrastructure project . I thank the Minister for all her hard work to bring together procurement information centrally for the first time and to improve the quality of that datum . what progress have be make to push that out to the public in the dashboard and analytic that will help we track and improve the public procurement system and monitor the Government ' s strategic goal of back british small and medium - sized enterprise and support key sector of the economy ? I thank my hon . friend for his continued advocacy for great transparency in procurement , which we know deliver well value for money and well service . we have set up the central digital platform , which now hold over 4 , 000 pipeline notice , and we will soon make available a data platform that will facilitate detailed analysis of SME participation . we expect that to be available to procurement team soon , and we be scope how we will make it available to the wide public . devolve government : Co - operation what step he be take to improve co - operation with devolved government . the Government be commit to work with all level of government to deliver for people across the whole United Kingdom . in the last few week , I attend the Interparliamentary Forum to speak with colleague from across the four legislature , and I have hold productive discussion with devolved Government colleague on our trade strategy . this Labour Government understand the importance of partnership in power . one year on , I welcome that this partnership have deliver record funding for Wales to improve our railway , protect coal tip , and boost our economy and our public service . at the general election , we rightly recognise that the Welsh fiscal framework be outdate . please could the Minister provide an update on the progress be make to address this ? I can give my hon . friend the undertaking he seek . we be commit to work in partnership with the Welsh Government to ensure that the framework be bring up to date and deliver value for money . my official be support his Majesty ' s Treasury on how the framework can be update , and that work be ongoing . be the Government still commit to one civil service across the United Kingdom ? if so , what be they proactively do to ensure that as part of their career development , UK Government civil servant can work within the devolve administration and that those within the devolved administration can have role within the UK Government ? I pay tribute to the work of the civil service , not just for the UK Government but across the United Kingdom . civil servant do tireless work on behalf of the public each and every day and be a critical part of this Government ' s determination to deliver significant change for the country and drive forward the mission we have define . to the right hon . member ' s question , in the early year of devolution there be a lot more interchange between the home civil service here in London and the civil service in office such as those in Edinburgh , Belfast and Cardiff . I know that thought be be give to how we ensure that there be the right expertise in the right part of the country , and there be an information exchange on how to get this right . National Security what recent progress his Department have make on strengthen national security . last month , on behalf of the Prime Minister , I make a statement in the House announce the national security strategy . that coincide with the NATO summit attend by the Prime Minister . at its heart , the strategy have three pillar : security at home , strength abroad and increase our sovereign and asymmetric capability . my Department will lead on the co - ordination of that work , which apply not just in the Cabinet Office but right across Government . Cyber - security be vital , not just to our national security but to safeguard our public service , so I be delighted that the Government be invest in the sector through their cyber growth action plan . some of that investment be go into my neighbouring town , Cheltenham , but there be so many fantastic opportunity , and potential opportunity , in my city of Gloucester . will my right hon . friend meet I to discuss how my constituent can access those opportunity and secure the well - pay , high - skilled job of the future ? recent event have show just how important cyber - security be . we have over 2 , 000 business across the UK generating revenue of an estimate £ 13 billion and 67 , 000 job in this field . we be also a large exporter of cyber - product . the truth be that we need training and capability in this new area of defence . I be happy to ensure that my hon . friend get a meeting with a relevant Minister . the BBC cover the Government ' s publication of the national security strategy last month with the headline " UK must prepare for war scenario " . often , the public will read an alarming headline like that without read about the context , or about what it might mean for they or what they should do about it . will the Government draw on academic expertise , such as that at the Centre for the Public Understanding of Defence and Security at the University of Exeter , in engage with our constituent on this subject ? the hon . Member make a very good point about engagement with the public . anyone who have watch the news in recent year will know that the defence picture across Europe be change . I make a statement to the House early this week on the importance of resilience . resilience be not just a matter for Government , although the Government do have their responsibility ; it be a whole - of - society effort , and it will require proper dialogue and communication with the public . infected Blood Compensation Scheme what recent progress he have make on the infected blood compensation scheme . yesterday , the infected blood inquiry publish an additional report on compensation . the Government will now urgently work through its recommendation and work closely with the Infected Blood Compensation Authority to understand the delivery implication and any policy change to the scheme . with your permission , Mr Speaker , I hope to provide a further update to the House before the summer recess . two thousand and forty - three people have be ask to start their compensation claim and 616 offer of compensation have be make , total over £ 488 million . last week , the Government write to the Public Accounts Committee and the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee outline the step that the Government be take to remove administrative barrier to allow ibca to speed up payment . I thank the Minister for his answer and for the response to yesterday ' s report . I speak today on behalf of one of my constituent , a core participant in the inquiry , who be recently invite to start their claim . they have ask specifically when those affect , such as the parent of the infected , will be invite to start their claim , give that they have be wait for decade for justice and there be concern that delay may mean that they do not get to see it in their lifetime . I understand that concern . my hon . friend be a powerful voice for her constituent , and I welcome the news that they have start their claim . I know that many across the House will be eager for their constituent , include those who be affect , to begin their claim as soon as possible . the Government expect IBCA to begin payment to those who be affect by the end of this year . as I have set out , the Government be take step to remove administrative barrier to allow ibca to speed up payment . I recognise that the infected blood inquiry have also make a recommendation on the sequencing of payment , which it will be for the Infected Blood Compensation Authority to consider . I remain concerned that Sir Brian Langstaff have never ask I , as the Minister who be responsible for the design of the scheme , to account for the process that I adopt under the advice of the civil servant that my successor , the Minister , share . I be concern now that there will be continue lack of clarity and certainty for those who have be wait for too long . we appoint an expert group on the good advice of the civil servant , we ensure that there would be engagement with representative from the 40 group , and I meet they over 18 meeting in 10 day prior to legislation come to this House . I be gravely concerned that continue uncertainty through more report writing will not serve the good interest of this community . do the Minister agree and what step will he take to resolve these matter once and for all ? I pay tribute to the work of my predecessor as Paymaster General in this area . I know the practical experience with which the right hon . Gentleman speak . when I give evidence to the inquiry back in May , I say that I be not bring a counsel of perfection and that I would listen to suggestion , which I would judge on the basis of not cause further undue delay to victim who have already wait for too long . that be the approach I will take as I urgently look at the recommendation . with your permission , Mr Speaker , I will hopefully update the House on that before the summer recess . Sir Brian Langstaff be particularly critical of the engagement with the infected and affected community since the publication of his final report in May last year . in particular , he be critical of the way the expert group be set up with the explicit instruction not to engage with the community . do my right hon . friend accept that a lot of damage have be do since the publication of that final report , as be expose in the report that Sir Brian Langstaff publish yesterday ? will he say what he intend to do to improve relationship with the infected and the affected ? I be deeply sympathetic to the inquiry ' s word on the involvement of the infected blood community . the Government be commit to provide fair compensation to victim of this scandal . the inquiry recognise this and say : " there can be no doubt that the Government have do right in way which powerfully signal its intent . " however , I also recognise what Sir Brian say when he state that " there be still more to be do to ensure that the detail and operation of the scheme match up to its intent . " I will now urgently look at those recommendation with a view to action . my constituent Graham be a victim of the infected blood scandal . his experience and the length of time that he have have to wait for compensation have strong parallel with another constituent of mine , Steve , who be the last RAF officer to go to prison for be gay . both constituent have suffer decade of trauma as a result . what parallel can the Minister draw when learn about those two compensation scheme , and how will we ensure that in future the administration of such scheme be smoother , swifter and a well experience for those who be impact ? the hon . Lady speak very movingly about her constituent , Graham and Steve , who have clearly have to wait decade — far too long — for justice . she raise a fair point about learn from compensation scheme . this be historical . for instance , we have the Windrush compensation scheme that begin under the previous Government , we have Horizon ongoing , and infect blood , where the inquiry have just produce an additional report but the compensation scheme be ongoing . on infected blood , IBCA have use a test - and - learn approach , which I think be important in allow we to move into a phase in which we can speed up payment . to the hon . Lady ' s central point , it be vital , and I be conscious of this , that we look at what have work well in previous compensation scheme and at what have work less well , and be honest about that and learn from it . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . since our last oral question session , my Department have announce that company that win contract for major infrastructure project will be reward for create high - quality british job and boost skill in local community . we set out our national security strategy to protect security at home , promote UK strength abroad and increase our sovereign capability . early this week , we publish our resilience action plan , which include detail of a new test of the national alarm system to come in September . the Government ' s change to the Green Book in place - base business case be positive for region like the north - east . will the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster set out how the Cabinet Office will support cross - departmental work on identify test case , such as the Moor Farm and Seaton Burn roundabout in my constituency , where infrastructure be hold back growth and housing and be need to help the Government achieve our growth and housing mission ? my hon . friend be a brilliant champion for her community . it be precisely because this Government want to support growth in community like hers that the Chancellor have set out that the new Green Book will support place - base business case . rapid work be happen to deliver that over the come month . I call the shadow Chancellor for the Duchy of Lancaster . will the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster confirm that civil servant should not engage in public fundraising for political party ? we all know the rule for civil servant . I think I know who he be refer to , and let I anticipate the hon . member ' s next question : the person be do a wonderful job . well , I will just fill in the House . for those who be not as well inform as the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster , the simple fact be that senior civil servant should not be engage in public fundraising from public speak for political party . it have be report that on 23 June , Lord Mandelson , who the Government classify as a senior civil servant , speak at a Labour fundraising event . will the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster assure the House that this breach will be properly investigate and treat ? I believe there have be correspondence to the Cabinet Secretary about this . he will reply in due course , but let I add this : Lord Mandelson be do an excellent job as our ambassador to the United States . he be integral to the negotiation of the trade agreement with the United States and be a great asset to the Government and the country . my constituent Andy be one of several former civil servant in my constituency affect by the McCloud judgment . like many of they , he be still wait to receive his hard - earn pension , and the delay be cause serious distress . while Andy recover from major surgery , he now face financial hardship due to many miss deadline and delay . will the Minister agree to meet I to discuss Andy ' s case and the case of three other constituent affect who have contact I to ensure that their case be resolve urgently ? I be deeply sorry to hear about Andy ' s circumstance , and I will of course meet my hon . friend to discuss this case . I have ask to be keep personally update on the case follow the letter from my hon . friend . the Cabinet Office continue to stress the importance of contractual performance to the mycsp administrator . what step be the Cabinet Office take to ensure that all public body adopt robust cyber - security framework , and what be the timetable to ensure their compliance ? as I say a few moment ago , the recent cyber - attack have be a wake - up call to Government , business and the whole of society . this be part of our national defence , and it be take extremely seriously . the National Cyber Security Centre work with victim of these attack and give advice in peacetime , as it be , as to how business can well defend themselves against these rogue operator who try to extort they . I be recently make aware by GE Vernova that its UK - base , low - cost bid for the eastern green link 3 be pass over in favour of a high - cost overseas supplier . would the Minister meet I and GE Vernova to discuss current procurement policy and whether it do enough to support UK manufacturing and to ensure our energy security and net zero commitment ? while I can not comment on the individual procurement , I can say that we be change procurement rule to strengthen the focus on british job and skill and to support british industry critical to our national security like energy . we be consult on this at the moment , and I would be more than happy to meet my hon . friend and the company to discuss this far . it be a constant complaint from my business in Harrow that if they be not on the government - approve list they almost can not get a Government contract . what action will the Minister take to ensure that new firm , include new small and medium - sized enterprise , can actually get contract and keep job in the UK ? I absolutely agree that we need to support sme , which be why we set target for all Departments on SME and voluntary , community and social enterprise spend . it be why we be review the rule to make it easy for sme to get on to Government contract , and why we be consult on new plan to set target for the entire public sector on SME spend . early this year , the Government publish their national procurement policy statement . give that economic growth be this Government ' s no . 1 mission , will the Minister update the House on how the new approach to procurement will ensure we deliver economic growth in every corner of this country , especially in the central belt , Forth valley and Falkirk ? I really welcome the House ' s continue enthusiasm and support for procurement . we have listen to that and be take it seriously , which be why we set out , as I say a couple of week ago , further change to procurement rule to respond to all those point about support sme , support british job and support british skill . can the Minister confirm the amount of money that have be save as a result of the change I bring in to the equality , diversity and inclusion guidance in the civil service ? will he also say if he will be maintain those change , or do he seek to overturn that policy ? I be not seek to overturn that , but we want to have a system where we uphold the equality law that apply to the civil service , just as it apply throughout the public sector . far to the answer give by the Paymaster General regard the contaminated blood inquiry , I welcome that he will update the House when he have have an opportunity to digest yesterday ' s report , but can I have an assurance from he that it will not be on the last sitting day before recess ? I may be in the hand of Mr Speaker so I will certainly not tread on to which day I will be permit to do so , but definitely before the summer recess . Mr Speaker , as you be well aware , Bridlington be the lobster capital of Europe , so there be understandable outrage at the recent Government decision to sell out the UK fishing industry for the next 12 year in return for a sanitary and phytosanitary deal that be yet to be negotiate . be that just another example of the shambolic way this government do business ? no , absolutely not . what we have , first of all , be a multi - year deal with stability , which will give the opportunity for investment . the Government will then invest £ 360 million in coastal community and update the fleet . if the hon . Gentleman be oppose to that , he should say so — surely , he be not . and the SPS agreement will allow our catch to be sell far more easily to the EU — by the way , 70 % of our catch currently go to the EU . he should be welcome that . I welcome the UK - EU reset , which will help to bring down energy bill and grocery bill . I also welcome the Government ' s new procurement plan . Bournemouth East have fantastic talent , particularly among our young population . will the Minister outline how the new procurement plan will both help to give those young people opportunity and secure clean power in the south - west ? we have set out plan to strengthen and streamline social value , so that we be absolutely clear about the expectation on business to support job , skill and opportunity — namely opportunity for our young people to get into good quality work in community like my hon . friend ' s . I think the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster and I be politically completely at one , because if it be down the two of we , we would relocate all civil servant to Wolverhampton and Staffordshire . what be also incredibly important be minister be in those office . will he commit to publish the detail of ministerial attendance in office outside London , include how long they stay in those office ? I be not sure I will . while Ministers should attend on occasion , minister have to be in a certain place just to keep up with a publish record be not the good use of their time . I very much welcome civil servant work in Wolverhampton . the Cabinet Office have a fantastic building in Glasgow , which I have enjoy visit and work in on several occasion . I be disappoint that the UK Government do not go ahead with proposal for a Glasgow campus for UK Government office . one reason behind that proposal be upgrade the facility available to Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office staff who be locate at Abercrombie House in East Kilbride , which have be assess as lack the facility require to be a second fcdo headquarters . will the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster work with the fcdo to ensure that that investment go into Abercrombie House so that it can be a second headquarters ? if the right hon . Gentleman ' s ambition be to move the staff out of East Kilbride , he should perhaps have a word with my hon . friend the Member for East Kilbride and Strathaven ( Joani Reid ) . we have good location in both Glasgow and East Kilbride , and we welcome they both . to refer to the previous question , I recently spend time work in the East Kilbride office . I hope that it be a good home for civil servant for some time to come . UK - France Nuclear Partnership ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Defence if he will make a statement on the UK - France nuclear partnership . the UK and France have a proud history of co - operation on defence nuclear matter . alongside our conventional warfighting capability , the independent strategic nuclear force of the UK and France contribute significantly to the overall security of the NATO alliance and the Euro - Atlantic . since 1995 , we have state that we do not see situation arise in which the vital interest of one could be threaten without the vital interest of the other also be threaten . in 2010 , both nation agree to share research facility and co - operate on nuclear technology under the Lancaster House treaty . in 2022 , at Chatham House , the Defence Secretary set out the importance of reboot Lancaster House and our defence relationship with France . that be reaffirm in our 2024 manifesto . today , the Prime Minister and President Emmanuel Macron will agree to deepen their nuclear co - operation and work more closely than ever before on nuclear deterrence . that be an important step forward for the UK - France nuclear partnership , and reflect the significant improvement in the relationship between our two country that this Government have drive . a soon - to - be - sign declaration will state for the first time that the respective deterrent of both country be independent but can be co - ordinated . the declaration will also affirm that there be no extreme threat to Europe that would not prompt a response by both nation . as such , any adversary threaten the vital interest of Britain or France could be confront by the strength of the nuclear force of both nation . Co - operation between our country on nuclear research will also deepen , while we work together to uphold the international non - proliferation architecture . further detail will follow today ' s agreement . in an increasingly volatile and complex global security environment , exemplify by Russia ' s war of aggression in Ukraine — a war on the european continent — the UK and France , as Europe ' s two nuclear power , be unite in our determination to work close than ever before on nuclear deterrence . that be a manifesto commitment , a promise make and a promise keep , and yet another example of how the Government be deliver for defence . thank you for grant this urgent question , Mr Speaker . I do think it be incredible that we have have to find out about such substantive matter overnight from the press and without a statement from the Government . we conservative back our nuclear deterrent 100 % and have never waver on that . we support step that boost the resilience of our nuclear enterprise , diversify delivery and , above all , help our core continuous at - sea deterrence to remain the cornerstone of our homeland defence against the most extreme threat . we also welcome step to genuinely strengthen UK - French co - operation on defence , build on Lancaster House . in particular , have be the Government who first authorise provision of long - range Storm Shadow missile to Ukraine , we recognise the urgent need to replenish our own storm Shadow stock , which be in the press release . can the Minister confirm whether we be place order for new Storm Shadow missile from MBDA or simply recondition exist stock ? the nuclear aspect of this be by far the most significant . can the Minister confirm where this will leave the operationally independent and sovereign nature of our exist Trident nuclear deterrent ? the Telegraph quote the declaration — which , of course , we have not see — as say that both nuclear arsenal " remain independent but can be co - ordinated and that there be no extreme threat to Europe that would not prompt a response by both nation " . do this mean that our respective national deterrence will now be jointly operationally deliver , and how will that co - ordination take place in practice ? crucially , how do this new nuclear doctrine affect NATO and our very close co - operation on nuclear deterrence with the United States ? will France now be offer its nuclear deterrent to NATO , as we do ? perhaps most importantly , will France be join the NATO Nuclear Planning Group ? on the matter of tactical nuclear weapon , I have previously ask about option other than US - control gravity bomb , with no reply . give the announcement on Storm Shadow and MBDA , will the UK and France now be look at co - operation on tactical nuclear delivery option via our share complex weapon industrial base ? a particular concern of the opposition be that there appear to be a deep paradox at play here : talk of close co - operation with France , but in the background , the Government still get nowhere on access to hard cash from the european rearmament fund , despite have give up our sovereign fishing ground . to conclude , it be truly extraordinary that such significant defence development do not warrant a Government statement , so the Minister must now be as transparent as possible in answer our question — not least after week dominate by smoke and mirror on defence spending and chaotic u - turn on welfare that raise the most profound question of all : where be the money go to come from ? there have not be a statement yet because the agreement have not be sign yet . in fact — you ' re brief it to the press . if the right hon . Gentleman would like to listen to the reply , the agreement have not be sign yet . I be sure that as soon as it be sign — but it have be brief to the press . I be sure that as soon as it be sign — [ interruption . ] the shadow Minister have ask his question . I would like to try to answer they without he heckle I too much , although it be up to he how he behave . no , it will be up to I . indeed . the shadow Minister ask whether the idea that we should work more closely with France have any implication for the independence of Trident , and he refer to the phrase " independent but can be co - ordinated " . the answer be no . our CASD operation be entirely unaffected . this be not a new nuclear doctrine on behalf of the UK . our nuclear doctrine be the same as it ever have be . the use of our nuclear deterrent in any circumstance can only be authorise by the Prime Minister , and that remain the case . the French have their own arrangement for how they authorise theirs ; it be a matter for they . this agreement imply no co - ordination in that respect . the agreement say that there be an opportunity , when vital interest be affect , for co - ordination between both nation in the way in which they respond . that just strengthen the power of the deterrent across Europe . when two nation that be nuclear power can co - ordinate their response , it strengthen the deterrent against our potential enemy by make it clear that the two nation will act in co - ordination rather than entirely separately . the shadow Minister ask whether the agreement have any implication for our deterrent still be dedicate to NATO . it do not ; our deterrent be , of course , still dedicate to the defence of NATO . he refer again to tactical nuclear delivery option . I do not know whether he mean tactical nuclear weapon development . this government do not see any use of any kind of nuclear weapon as tactical , and we be not propose in this agreement to develop any new kind of nuclear weapon . it be about co - ordinate the option that we have together to make Europe and the north Atlantic stronger . I welcome today ' s agreement that be in train , as a powerful signal that Britain be once again step up to be a reliable european ally , with deep UK - France co - ordination on nuclear deterrence mark a step change in how we engage with our close partner . this be not just a diplomatic milestone ; it have real potential to reset relation , strengthen european security and drive long - term investment into our industrial base . as the keen champion of our sovereign capability and resilient supply chain , particularly in my constituency , may I ask the Minister how this partnership will be use to maximise opportunity for UK industry , ensure that we can build the skill , infrastructure and capacity that be need to keep our deterrent credible for decade to come ? the effort on co - ordinate our nuclear deterrence , between the UK and France , be in the context of a refresh of the Lancaster House treaty , which also include provision about co - ordinate our conventional force and co - ordinating effort through our industry to ensure that we can manufacture new and future - proof complex weapon that will assist in deter potential adversary who would threaten Europe . this be in the context of an entire , refresh agreement that should strengthen our conventional force as well as our capacity for co - ordination between our military and of our nuclear deterrence . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Liberal Democrats have consistently say that the UK ' s security depend on deep defence co - operation with our european ally , so we welcome progress but urge the Government to go far . nuclear co - ordination between the UK and France can help to deter Putin and support Europe ' s collective security . that be particularly critical as Donald Trump have show that our security be no long his concern . France cherish the independence of its nuclear system , as the Minister confirm , so will she provide further detail on exactly how the new system of co - ordinating nuclear deterrence will work ? the Government must now go far , so will the Minister update the House on whether the Government have secure full access for UK defence firm to the EU Security Action for Europe fund ? as Putin escalate his attack against civilian target in Kyiv and other city , we must work with our ally to support Ukraine . will the Government use today ' s coalition of the willing talk to agree on how the UK and France can seize Russia ' s frozen asset that be hold in our two country ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his support for deep defence co - operation . on the co - ordination of our nuclear deterrence — there be no extreme threat to Europe that would not prompt a response by our two nation , but France and the UK remain two sovereign nuclear weapon state , and their respective nuclear force and decision - make process be independent . there will be increase co - ordination of research and development , and of the co - operation that we have be engage in since the Chequers announcement of 1995 . that will be deepen , and a co - ordinating committee between the É lys é e and the Cabinet Office will be the joint arrangement for decide precisely how and what extra research or training we might do . there will be increase co - ordination of that effort , but I stress that our decision - make arrangement remain completely independent . both nation recognise that there be no extreme threat to Europe that would not prompt a response by our two nation — our vital interest be the same in that respect . on Security Action for Europe and access to EU fund , negotiation be ongoing but not complete . one would hope that progress can be make . I can not recall the hon . Gentleman ' s third point — the coalition of the willing . I have nothing furth to say on that today , as the hon . Gentleman would probably expect in a response to an urgent question on nuclear co - ordination . be the Minister as surprised as I be to find that the shadow Secretary of State only half quote that sentence from the report in Navy Lookout , about make it clear that " no extreme threat " to european security would go unanswered by both country , but fail to look at the real purpose here — that it signal a strengthen deterrence posture , as Russia have repeat its threat to use nuclear weapon ? do my hon . friend agree that this show that the relationship , which be damage by Brexit , be now be recreate by this Government ? the AUKUS pact and defence co - operation be now a clear priority for this Government , with the European Union , and that be embody in this new relationship with France . I suppose I should say that I be surprised that the shadow Secretary of State for Defence only quote half the sentence — if indeed that be the case — but he be probably not the first Opposition spokesperson to do that in the history of Oppositions in this House . I agree with my hon . friend that what we have here be a strengthening of the deterrent across Europe , which will help to deter potential adversary from conduct themselves in a way that might threaten the future of our nation . I welcome the announcement of strengthen collaboration with France , although read between the line , it sound like " co - ordination " be actually submarine patrol deconfliction . our aerial participation in the NATO nuclear mission be still a decade away , with the completion of F - 35A delivery not schedule until 2033 , accord to the Government , but both the french air force and marine nationale be arm with the air - sol moyenne port é e am é lior é — asmpa — medium - range supersonic nuclear - tip missile as part of their force de dissuasion . be that nuclear strike capability within the scope of this agreement ? if so , how will it be incorporate into our own nuclear doctrine ? will it be an escalation step prior to the use of Trident ? do this form an interim solution while we await the capability to fully participate in the NATO nuclear mission ? how will command of it work ? the hon . Gentleman complain about the amount of time it have take this Government to do thing in respect of defence , but we have to pick up the mess that be leave by his Government , who be in office for 14 year . it be a bit of a cheek for he to complain about delay , when the reality be that his own Government do nothing for 14 year . I have make it quite clear that our defence nuclear posture be not change , and that we be not seek to acquire new and different nuclear weapon , but if the vital interest of the UK and France be engage and threaten , we will co - ordinate our nuclear response as a result of this agreement , and that provide a great deterrent . a much strong relationship between the UK and France in this area will require a deepening of our commercial collaboration in our respective industrial basis , particularly in the supply chain . will the Minister comment on how the Government ' s own procurement policy will help to support this collaboration , particularly as it might benefit company in the Teesside defence and innovation cluster ? my hon . friend be correct . the refresh of the Lancaster House treaty be about not just nuclear co - operation , but co - operation between our conventional force and great co - operation and effort between our industry bilaterally to provide we with thing like complex weapon in a way that will deter and enable we to defend ourselves at threshold well below any nuclear threshold . any increase in defence spending , as we be see , do give more opportunity for our own industry . whether those company be offer novel or dual - use technology , or be our traditional big prime , any increase offer more opportunity for all of they to help we in our rearmament . I understand that the ink may not yet be dry on this agreement , so clearly the Minister can answer only on what she be aware of at the moment . however , she mention the use of a committee to make decision . who will chair that committee ? what will its membership be ? how will decision be make if there be a disagreement between our ally in France and ourselves ? our respective national authority will remain responsible for plan and conduct operation . a UK - France nuclear steering group will be establish to provide political direction for increased co - ordination across nuclear policy capability and operation . that will be joint between the É lys é e , which have authority over nuclear matter in France , and the Cabinet Office , which will co - ordinate with it — obviously with input from the Ministry of Defence . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s response and great collaboration between the UK and France with this nuclear partnership . it not only enhance our nation ' s security , but have the potential to deliver highly skilled and highly pay job to every nation and region across our country . will she say a little more about how those benefit will be realise in Scotland ? my hon . friend be correct . the strategic defence review and our ongoing commitment to increase defence spending in this country give opportunity for our industry to benefit , obtain contract and assist we in ensure that we can defend our nation and NATO more fully and in a well way go forward . there will be job , skilled opportunity and growth in all part of the nation and region of the UK . the threat and nuclear sabre - rattle that we have hear from President Putin since Russia ' s full - scale invasion of Ukraine be utterly unacceptable , and the response from the british and french government have be robust . for I , defence co - operation between the UK and France be always welcome . will our government also seek to get a reaffirmation from other p5 country , include Russia , of the Reagan - Gorbachev formula that " a nuclear war can not be win and must never be fight " ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his support for this extra co - ordination . the aim of all this be to make sure that NATO and Europe be safe from the threat that may come from Putin and his nuclear sabre - rattle , as the hon . Gentleman refer to . we believe that deter those threat be the good way to ensure that we do not end up have to fight a war that would be catastrophic . that be where we be at present . I be not sure that President Putin be in the mood to agree that nuclear war can not be win , because he do issue nuclear threat every now and then . we need to ensure that he be deter in his approach . the two bedrock of our national defence be our own sovereign capability and our membership of NATO . the United Kingdom and France be both member of NATO , but , as the shadow Secretary of State point out , the paradox be that we and every other NATO member bar one be member of the NATO nuclear planning group . of course , that " bar one " be France . as part of these discussion , be France go to join the NATO nuclear planning group ? if not , how on earth will this co - ordination work within that partnership ? I be not here to speak for the french Government . as far as I be concern , our nuclear posture have not change ; their nuclear posture be a matter for they . what this agreement say be that there be no extreme threat to Europe that would not prompt a response by our two nation , and although we both independently look after and be responsible for our deterrence , we believe that co - ordinating potential response in this way provide a great deterrent for Europe and NATO . that be the basis of this agreement . clearly , our deep and close relationship on nuclear deterrence be with the United States of America . can the Minister confirm how this agreement will affect that relationship , which be crucial for our security ? the agreement do not change our very close relationship with the Americans . in line with the NATO strategic concept , the strategic force of the US , the UK and France all contribute significantly to the overall security of the alliance . there be no reason why that should not continue to be the case . rise — rise — I call Jim Shannon . thank you very much , Mr Speaker — I always expect to be call last , but I have just jump in ahead of my colleague and friend , the hon . member for South Antrim ( Robin Swann ) . I thank the Minister for her answer today . we very much welcome the news that we be to enhance our nuclear programme — that security can only be good for our whole nation . however , the estimate I have read still put our nuclear capability well below the threat pose by Russia , so how can we continue to build our nuclear capability , and how can Northern Ireland play a part in that work ? the Minister be always committed to help Northern Ireland , so I be very keen to hear how that will work . the hon . Gentleman be usually last , but never least , and he be not even last on this occasion . I agree that it be important that we strengthen the credibility of our deterrence , which be why we be commit to build the four replacement boat that will carry our continuous at - sea deterrent and up to 12 ssn through SSN - AUKUS . we be double the drumbeat of our construction of submarine over time , which I think send a pretty powerful signal to potential adversary that our CASD , and our capacity to defend and to use it , be go to be significantly strengthen over the come period . I be glad to say that I have find general support for that in this House , which I welcome . the Minister reference the political steering group that will be set up between the two nation . be there any concern — either within Government or within the Ministry of Defence — about share intelligence with a separate political steering group that will sit outside of , or adjacent to , NATO ? the steering group be about political policymaking rather than intelligence . I be sure that appropriate arrangement will be establish if there be any such issue , but I do not anticipate that there will be a problem . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . a point of order relevant to this debate ? indeed . may I seek your guidance on how to set the record straight ? follow the question from the hon . member for Brent West ( Barry Gardiner ) , the Minister criticise the fact that I only partially refer to a quote from the declaration text . to be clear , I have not see the declaration . it be leak to the medium overnight ; that be all I could read from , and I be none the wiser from the answer we have just have . order . please , we can not keep the debate go . you have make the point and it be on the record — let we move on . business of the House will the Leader of the House give the House the forthcoming business ? the business for the week commence 14 July include : Monday 14 July — Committee of the whole House and remain stage of the Deprivation of Citizenship Orders ( effect during Appeal ) Bill , follow which the Chairman of Ways and Means be expect to name opposed private business for consideration . Tuesday 15 July — opposition day ( 9th allot day ) . debate on a motion in the name of the official Opposition . subject to be announce . Wednesday 16 July — Second reading of the Property ( Digital Assets etc ) Bill [ Lords ] , follow by a debate on a motion relate to the Committee on Standards ' third report of session 2024 - 25 on register of interest of Members ' staff , follow by a general debate on give every child the good start in life . Thursday 17 July — general debate on the global plastic treaty , follow by a general debate on age community and end - of - life care . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 18 July — the House will not be sit . the provisional business for the week commence 21 July will include : Monday 21 July — general debate on the 80th anniversary of victory over Japan . Tuesday 22 July — the Sir David Amess summer Adjournment debate . the subject for this debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . the House will rise for the summer recess at the conclusion of business on Tuesday 22 July and return on Monday 1 September . I call the shadow Leader of the House . I be not go to let this moment pass — I be sure no colleague would wish I to — without again remind everyone present that this week mark the 20th anniversary of the 7 / 7 bombing . on 7 July 2005 , 52 people be kill in four separate attack and 700 more be injure , many of they grievously . I know that the whole House will want to join I in mourn the victim of these dreadful crime and in send all our good wish to their family and love one . while we be on the subject of anniversary , the House will need no reminding that 2025 be 760 year since Simon de Montfort convene the first representative Parliament . perhaps even more significantly , this year mark 800 year since the year 1225 , when the charter we now know as Magna Carta be agree as a statute and , indeed , become the first of all our statute . to that extent , it be 1225 and not 1215 that should be recognise as the birth date of Magna Carta . [ interruption . ] I be pleased to hear that wide array of support from the House — thank you . I think it be an important point to put on the record . for the Government , of course , the past week mark an anniversary of a somewhat less glorious and happy kind : their first full year in office . as a House , it fall to we to ask how the Government have do . it would be right to focus in the first place on their shockingly negligent and abusive treatment of our Northern Ireland veteran , but that be the topic of a Westminster Hall debate next Monday , so let we focus on wide issue . Labour pledge to deliver the high economic growth in the G7 . in reality , UK growth have fail even to beat the G7 average . Labour promise to meet NHS waiting list target for 92 % of patient , but the current figure stand at 59 . 8 % — just one percentage point well than a year ago . labour vow to smash the boat and the boat gang , yet small boat migrant number be up by almost 50 % compare with this time last year . perhaps we can forget the pledge . how , then , be the UK economy actually do ? well , we know that the Office for Budget Responsibility have cut its growth forecast to just 1 % , inflation be high than a year ago and unemployment stand at its high for four year . so diminish be the Government ' s stand in international market that the Institute for Fiscal Studies recently point out that the UK now face high borrowing cost than almost all comparable country . it be two full percentage point high than Germany and high even than Greece and Italy . I be afraid to say that the Government have store up more pain to come . the junior doctor have now vote in favour of further strike through the autumn and into the new year . they have a 22 % increase last year , the House will recall , and they be now look to their labour brother and sister for a scarcely believable furth 29 % . that be before we include their pension . the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care have , as the wildly overrated Aneurin Bevan say in 1948 , " stuff their mouth with gold " , and they be already come back for more . what have the medium reaction be to all this ? internationally , the Economist describe the Prime Minister ' s first year as " waste " . Time call it " a catalogue of error " . the normally sympathetic New York Times comment that Britain ' s Prime Minister be " fade away before our eye " . even supportive british newspaper have not be able to disguise their dismay . the Financial Times have bewail Labour ' s " drift " , and the Guardian its " lack of vision " — not my word , but those of some of the most respected newspaper in the world . finally , what do the poor , suffer public make of all this ? we know what a laser focus those in 10 Downing Street keep on the poll , and it will not have escape their notice that the Prime Minister ' s approval rating be now at - 35 . no Government in recent time have ever lose public support after an election fast than this one . how mortify the Prime Minister must be to be wrench back almost weekly from the perfumed chancery of Europe to the grimmer reality of domestic politic . we need not dwell on the piety and pomposity of Labour ' s pronouncement about stability and trust before the July 2024 election . these be the fact , they speak for themselves , and they say only this : must do well — a lot well . may I join the shadow Leader of the House in mark the 20th anniversary of the 7 / 7 bombing ? we all remember that day well , and I be sure that the whole House will want to remember all those who die and those who be affect by it . may I also take this opportunity to welcome the newly announce new director of the Independent Complaints and Grievance Scheme , the highly qualified Miriam Minty , who will be start in September ? as the shadow Leader of the House say , this week we welcome the french President to the UK for a state visit . I think his address to both Houses on Tuesday be excellent and historic , and I thank you , Mr Speaker , your team and all those involve in organise it . I think that it underline the deep and endure relationship between our two great country . the visit conclude today with a summit , and I will ensure that the House be update at the early opportunity on any agreement that we come to as part of that . I have to say it be a bit gall that , week in , week out , the right hon . Gentleman raise the propose strike action by junior doctor , which be extremely disappointing . we do not think strike action be necessary , give that the NHS be finally move in the right direction . strike would put that recovery at risk , affect patient and let down our collective obligation to those we be here to serve . we have deliver a very generous pay settlement , but we be keen to work constructively . the Health Secretary ' s door remain open — he will be in the House shortly . our approach be very different from that which the Conservatives leave we . they leave the NHS on its knee , with waiting list at a record high , and with over half a million appointment and operation cancel due to strike action in just one year . and it be not just the doctor ; the rail strike cost the economy over £ 1 billion , the teacher ' strike lose 600 teaching day in one year , and the Conservatives go to war with public sector worker week in , week out . I do notice , though , that the Leader of the opposition be today give a speech in which she will talk about the " tick time bomb " that have be leave . too right there be a tick time bomb — it be the Conservatives ' tick time bomb . we all know that they leave mine all over the place , and we be have to sweep they out . the right hon . Gentleman want to know how our first year in office be go , and I be happy to tell he . we promise 2 million extra NHS appointment , and we have deliver a million more than that . we say that we would get waiting list down , and they be come down month on month . interest rate be come down . net migration be come down from a record high under the Conservatives . we have secure three trade deal — trade deal that they once hail but never deliver , and we have get they go . we have create nearly 400 , 000 new job since the election . we have recruit an extra 3 , 000 new police officer . we have build nearly 200 , 000 new home , establish Great British Energy , extend the warm home discount to 6 million more household , expand free school meal for half a million more child , and open free breakfast club . we have ban bonus for water boss who have be pollute our river , and wage grow more in our first 10 month in office than they do in the Conservatives ' last 10 year in office . I be happy to debate he any time on our record , and I thank he for the opportunity to do so today . I do feel slightly sorry for the shadow Leader of the House when , come here week in and week out , it be just go from bad to bad for the Conservative party , be it not ? perhaps that be why he go so deep into history in his question , because he do not want to talk about recent history . he be one of the first up this morning after — let we be honest — a big defection overnight , the late in a long line of those flee the sink ship . personally , I would not put have put Jake Berry — good friend of Boris Johnson and former chair of the conservative party — down as a likely defector . it really be that bad for the Conservatives . however , I could not have put it well myself , when Jake say " we ' ve get a Conservative Party that doesn ' t seem to know what it stand for any more … the Conservatives have lose their way . they ' ve abandon their principle . they ' ve abandon the british people . " he be right , isn ' t he ? have say that , and we can not pass this by , that defection do not make up for what have be a terrible week for the Reform party , especially when it come to , shall we say , hr matter . the big story for Reform this week be that it really be become the party of sleaze and scandal , and of dud and dodgy personnel . I do not think this be really the right moment for it to start ditch its vetting procedure . even though it have only a handful of MPs , its Chief Whip seem to have have a busy week than our , and that be say something . I be not sure if Reform will welcome our partnership with the French on tackle the small boat this week , but it be already enthusiastically implement a policy of one in , one out . early - day motion 1496 set out how Samiul Ahmed buy Cockermouth ' s Old Courthouse for a knock - down price and , ignore professional advice , allow the list building to collapse into the River Cocker . [ that this House note in July 2022 Samiul Ahmed of Tower Hamlets purchase the Grade II list Old Courthouse , Cockermouth , a building with an annual income of £ 38 , 000 , believe to be worth £ 250 , 000 , for the reduce price of £ 51 , 000 , due to riverbank erosion and the need for major structural repair ; far note that in pursuit of quick profit , Ahmed arrange a structural survey and associated work , but on learn of the extent of wide liability and ignore professional advice , have support prop remove , lead to major deterioration and collapse of a portion of the building into the River Cocker in October 2023 ; also note that after three year the building remain unsupported , a partial ruin ; note that the Environment Agency map increase flood risk to Cockermouth as a result , and express concern that the front of the building be also undermine and at risk of collapse ; observe that Ahmed fail to pay contractor , have be successfully sue for £ 62 , 000 by one local company , and that he have conspire to avoid liability by arrange transfer of his personal ownership of the building to a different legal entity , Halal Group Ltd . ; believe that Ahmed be now seek to transfer responsibility to Cumberland Council taxpayer a potential bill which could range between £ 1 and £ 4 million ; assert it should not be the responsibility of taxpayer to pick up the liability of person whose motivation have be property speculation for a quick profit ; and call upon Mr Ahmed to fund the restoration cost . ] so it be disappointing to hear the owner on Radio Cumbria this morning continue to blame the council . my message to Mr Ahmed be : " publish your plan and prove you can finance they , and do it quick , before the town flood through your inaction . " would the Leader of the House agree that a debate on council power to deal with greedy , incompetent property speculator be well overdue ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this important constituency case . he be absolutely right that we need more accountability , and we need community to have more power over these vital local asset . that be exactly what we will be do when we introduce the english devolution and community empowerment Bill later . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . yesterday , LBC publish a month - long investigative story on special educational need and disability . shockingly , it reveal that family have be send legal cease and desist letter in attempt by some school and local authority to deter parent from seek education , health and care plan for their child with SEND . the report uncover that some parent and the independent SEND advocate assist they have be threaten with legal action and with be report to the police simply for dare to ask question about the SEND provision to which their child be entitle but that be not be deliver . let we be very clear : SEND child and their family have a legal right to support , and I be sure that the whole House would agree that attempt to prevent or limit the provision of such assistance , particularly through intimidatory tactic , be completely unacceptable . we all know that the SEND system be fundamentally break and that reform be need . that be why the Liberal Democrats set out our five principle for SEND reform in England yesterday . principle no . 1 be ensure that child ' s and family ' voice be at the heart of the reform process . indeed , the Prime Minister say yesterday that he want " to work with parent and teacher to get this right . " — [ Official Report , 9 July 2025 ; Vol . 770 , c . 941 . ] will the Leader of the House ask the Secretary of State for Education to make a statement explain exactly how their voice be be not just hear , but understand as part of the SEND reform process , and will she join I in condemn the outrageous practice of issue legal threat to parent who be simply try to do their good for their child ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise that important issue , which I know she and many in her party care deeply about , as do most on the Government Benches . as she say — I think it be widely accept — we inherit a SEND system in crisis ; I think any parent or any constituency MP who have be support family through this system know that it be break and need address . I join she in highlight the LBC investigation , which have really shine a light on some of these issue . on the process , I reassure the hon . Lady that we absolutely want to and will build consensus on these issue — we have be very clear about that . we will be work with parent , teacher , campaigner and professional right across the system to develop those reform and to fix the system , which be much need . we will continue that engage dialogue over the summer before publish a White Paper in the autumn ; that White Paper will , of course , be follow by all the process and discussion that would normally follow . I will ensure that the House be keep update throughout . at a time when just 26 % of the UK ' s science , technology , engineering and mathematic workforce be woman , I be incredibly proud that Croydon high school in my constituency be on course to become the first all - girl school in the world to design , build and launch a CubeSat into space , follow a successful live flight test this month . this group of student be testament to what be possible when we encourage our girl to reach for the star . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the Astrogazers team on their pioneering work , and will she allow time for a debate on how we can open up more opportunity to girl in science , technology and engineering across all our school ? as a STEM graduate myself , I absolutely endorse what my hon . Friend say . girl be often well at science and math in many way , but they just do not pick it . I strongly congratulate the Astrogazers team and the school in my hon . friend ' s constituency , and encourage all the girl involve to get into a career in science , engineering and technology . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . I thank the Leader of the House for announce the business in the Chamber . if she could also look forward to the September sitting and give we date early , it would help we to plan debate in the Chamber . in addition to the business that the Leader of the House have announce , we will have the follow debate in Westminster Hall : on Tuesday 15 July , there will be a debate on SEND provision in the south - east ; on Thursday 17 July , there will be a debate on the role of freedom of religion or belief in UK foreign policy , follow by a debate on the role of the RAF photographic reconnaissance unit during the second world war ; and on Tuesday 22 July , there will be a debate on Black Country Day . we be also , of course , already plan for the September sit ; on 4 September , we will have a debate on the adoption and special guardianship support fund , follow by a debate on the future of terrestrial tv . early this year , I raise the plight of minority group in Bangladesh , and yesterday I host a seminar in which we hear from representative of the Hindu , Christian , Buddhist and Ahmadiyya community , who be all under direct attack in Bangladesh . a couple of week ago I refer to the Rath Yatra celebration in Harrow . in Bangladesh , the celebration be attack by islamist thug who disgracefully destroy that wonderful and peaceful procession . at the same time , the current interim Government in Bangladesh have fail to announce the date of the general election , when a proper democratic Government will be elect . will the Leader of the House arrange for a statement to be make next week by a Foreign Office Minister on how we will put pressure on Bangladesh to ensure that we safeguard minority ? as ever , I thank the hon . Gentleman for announce some important forthcoming debate . I shall do my good to give as much advance notice as possible on the opportunity come up in September . the hon . Gentleman raise the really important issue of freedom of religious expression or belief — it normally come up later in this session , but I be really glad he be also raise it today . the hon . Gentleman will know that we be in constant dialogue with the interim Bangladesh Government , and we have make very clear the importance of uphold freedom of religious belief and of protect all community . we will continue that engagement , and I will ensure that the House be keep update on those conversation . I can not help but note that the news of the defection of my predecessor , Jake Berry , have generally be greet in Rossendale and Darwen as bad news for Reform . it have be suggest that the party should re - establish its vetting procedure . on further reform news , I be inform this week that the Reform - lead Lancashire county council plan to cut £ 3 million from the education budget by significantly reduce support for nursery . that be despite increase childcare funding from this Labour Government . I have be contact by several Rossendale nursery manager who have make it clear that this will result in increase cost for parent and even closure . if these be the sort of efficiency that reform be pursue , increase cost and stress for young family , we should all be deeply concerned . I and fellow mp have write to the leader of the county council oppose the cut in the strong possible term and ask he to think again . do the Leader of the House share our concern and will she agree to hold a debate on this subject ? have visit a number of nursery school in Rossendale over the year , I know of the amazing work that they do to provide child in my hon . friend ' s constituency with the very good start in life . this Government be absolutely committed to support and increase that work and to ensure that all young people get that good start in life . I be shocked to hear that the reform - lead county council be plan on closing nursery . that be a retrograde step and something that it should rethink . my hon . friend be right to point out that his predecessor , the former Member for Rossendale and Darwen , be now a member of Reform . I think that that former Member might have ambition to put himself forward as a candidate for the Mayor of Lancashire in the forthcoming election . I also remember he join I in the former all - party group on nursery school in want to keep the Rossendale nursery open . perhaps he might his start his new career in Reform by tell the party straightaway not to make this decision . first , I add my tribute to my late friend , Lord Tebbit of Chingford , who be one of the fine parliamentarian and a man of great courage and patriotism . we owe he so much for what he do for our country . he be also a victim of terrorism , as you will know , Mr Speaker . this week I have the privilege of represent my constituency at the 20 - year commemoration service of the 7 / 7 bombing at St Paul ' s cathedral . for those of we who be in London , in Westminster , on 7 July 2005 , it bring back the sheer horror of what take place on that dreadful day . for the 52 people who lose their life and the countless other who be mentally and physically scarred , the suffering be beyond imaginable . a constituent of mine at the time , Dan Biddle from Collier row , lose both his leg and an eye in the attack and have be battle that trauma ever since . will the Leader of the House please ask the Home Secretary to heed Dan ' s call for a full public inquiry into 7 / 7 , and to give the victim the justice , the compensation and the closure that they rightly deserve ? I pay tribute to Lord Tebbit , who be a lead politician when I be grow up . although I disagree with he on most thing politically , I rate he as a politician who have a clear agenda and be able to take thing forward in a way that many other be not . I recognise the challenge that he and many other face . as the MP for Manchester Central , I also represent those who have be the victim of terrorist attack and I greatly understand the call for answer , the call for truth and justice , and , of course , the call for compensation . I will ensure that the hon . member get a full response from the Home Secretary about the issue that he raise . Douglas Forteath , vice - principal at Freebrough academy in my constituency , be retire after 30 year of service as a school teacher . he be one of my teacher when I be there — [ hon . member : " ah ! " ] will the Leader of the House join I in pay tribute both to Douglas for 30 year of educate young people in our constituency and to teacher all across our country ? well what a fine job Douglas Forteath do ! I be sure he be incredibly proud of the fact that one of his former pupil be now a Member of Parliament . I absolutely join my hon . friend in thank Douglas for a great life of service and for teach all his wonderful student over the year . three week ago I ask about the long overdue final delivery plan for I , and the Leader of the House rightly acknowledge the strength of feeling on this issue and reference the NHS 10 - year plan . the 10 - year plan have now be publish , but unfortunately it make absolutely no mention of I . the Department of Health and Social Care repeatedly raise expectation that the final delivery plan for I would be publish by the end of June , which be a delay date in itself , but that deadline have well come and go . this be appallingly disrespectful to those suffer from I , and the continue delay be cause unnecessary distress and despondency . can the Leader of the House explain why the delivery plan have not yet be publish , and can she press the Department for a clear timetable and an urgent statement on this ? the hon . Member raise this issue with I three week ago , and I know there have be much interest in her question and my answer among many who want to know when the delivery plan will be publish . I be sorry that ME be not contain in the NHS 10 - year plan , but I will be in touch with Ministers to get some answer about the timing . the return of the Bayeux tapestry to this country for the first time in almost 1 , 000 year be a triumph for Britain . the tapestry quite literally weave Hastings and 1066 Country into our national history , but while we be often at the centre of historical event , we have not always feel the benefit , and our area be in the bottom 10 place in the whole country for social mobility . this will be the exhibition of a generation , and our area must be a part of it . child in my constituency must not be price out by the cost of a ticket or train fare . what well way to ensure that that do not happen than to have the tapestry visit 1066 Country . it be for the expert to decide whether that be practical , but will the Leader of the House support my campaign to make sure that my area be truly part of this national moment and feel the benefit of it ? I join my hon . friend in say what great news it be that we be finally , after many hundred of year , go to see the exhibition of the Bayeux tapestry in this country . I pay tribute to my hon . friend , who be one of the champion in the House for her area ; 1066 Country be very close to my heart , have holiday there for many year as a child . I know how important the exhibition will be to her area and the young people there . I be sure , as she say , that this exhibition of a generation will bring renew interest in Hastings , Battle and the surround area , so I join my hon . friend in her call for young people to get access to it . I sincerely thank the Leader of the House for announce that there will be a debate on the 80th anniversary of VJ Day . it confirm how worth while it be to come to business question and make the case for a debate . I be sure the Leader of the House will join I in congratulate british player on a record - break start to the first week of Wimbledon , particularly Cam Norrie on his great effort in reach the man ' s quarter - final . sadly , many british player have speak out about the abuse that they have be face online , include Katie Boulter and Jodie Burrage , and a Women ' s Tennis Association and International Tennis Federation report find that 40 % of those troll player be dissatisfied gambler . can we have a debate in Government time about what we can do to prevent this sort of unacceptable abuse , not just of tennis player but of all those in public life ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for be such a regular attendee of business question . I can confirm that it be because of his representation in these session that I get the idea of have a VJ Day debate before we break up for the recess . as he say , the VE Day debate be very oversubscribed , so I hope that in the upcoming debate we can look at the very specific lesson of VJ Day too . the right hon . Gentleman raise a really important matter . I join he in congratulate Cam Norrie and all the british player on their progression at Wimbledon . the online abuse that they and many other in public life have suffer be unacceptable , it be disgraceful and it need to stop . the Online Safety Act 2023 be an important first step , but we need to go far . the big tech platform need to step up and put an end to this kind of abuse on social medium , where it flourish , because it be not acceptable and it need to end . the crisis at Morecambe football club continue . due to the owner ' s failure to sell , staff be unpaid , the bar be unstocked and two primary school leaver ' do have be cancel . the community have rally round , as it always do in Morecambe , and the party will go ahead , but may we have a debate in Government time on corporate fiscal and social responsibility and what power should be available when business owner let community down like this ? I be really sorry to hear that the situation at Morecambe football club continue . it sound like it be get bad , but I be pleased that the community have rally round to make sure that some of those leaver ' do can go ahead . my hon . friend be right to continue to raise these issue in the House . this be one of the reason that we introduce the Football Governance Bill , which pass its remain stage in the House early this week . we want to put fan and community right back at the heart of football and our important local club , such as Morecambe FC . I know that the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport be keen to continue to work with my hon . friend to resolve the issue at Morecambe . may we have a debate or a statement on the accountability and accessibility of arm ' s length body ? for month , I have be work with a company to try to get answer for it out of UK Research and Innovation . email go unanswered for week and month at a time . there be no publicly available contact information for the chief executive . I get an email this morning because my office call the press office at UKRI to say that I be go to raise the matter here ; that be the only point at which we have have anything out of it . body such as UKRI deliver a lot of government policy . surely , they should be accessible and accountable to member of Parliament in exactly the same way that the right hon . Lady ' s ministerial colleague be require to be . absolutely . the right hon . Gentleman raise a really important issue , and I be sure we all share the frustration that he describe with many arm ' s length body — quango , as they be know — not be open and accountable in the way that they should be . frankly , the Government think there be too many of they and we be take step to streamline they . it be in the dna of this Government to make sure that people have recourse and accountability . that be why we have introduce Bills such as the Football Governance Bill , the Renters ' Rights Bill , the Employment Rights Bill and what be now the Water ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 . we want to give ordinary people more right and recourse in respect of body that take decision on their behalf . I will ensure that the right hon . Gentleman get a reply from UKRI , and I be sure that it have hear his question . I call Adam Jogee . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I extend my sympathy to you and your family on the recent death of your mother ? last Sunday , people from across Staffordshire , include many from the heart and soul of our ancient county , Newcastle - under - Lyme , come together at Lichfield cathedral for a celebration of Sir Ian Dudson ' s service as lord lieutenant of Staffordshire . Sir Ian and Lady Dudson have serve the county , and particularly Newcastle - under - Lyme , very well for well over a decade . will the Leader of the House join I in thank Sir Ian and Lady Dudson for their service to the county and wish they and their family well for their retirement ? I join my hon . friend in thank Sir Ian and Lady Dudson for all their service to his community and wish they the very good for their retirement . may I join the tribute to Lord Tebbit ? he be a political giant in his day and far more capable than the " Spitting image " puppet ever give he credit for . may we have a debate in Government time on emerge proposal to cancel education , health and care plan ? I say in all sincerity to the Leader of the House that we all know from our constituency work that the special educational need system be break and need reform , but abolish ehcp would only lead to a backlash from angry parent and probably a major Back - Bench rebellion . whatever her government be go to do , please , in all seriousness , don ' t do that . as we have say many time in this Chamber , the SEND system be break and need reform . the last Conservative Education Secretary describe it as a " lose , lose , lose " situation for parent and child . it be not deliver the outcome and be not a good process for anyone involve . I hope the right hon . member be not try to misrepresent our position or plan in what he just outline , but I can reassure he , as I have reassure other , that we be work closely with the sector and with parent , campaigner and other as we draw up a White Paper . that White Paper will be publish later this year , and will be there for all to see , consider and consult on . we will take that process incredibly seriously because we want to build consensus on how we can bring much - need reform to the SEND sector . my right hon . friend the Paymaster General have give a commitment to respond to Sir Brian Langstaff ' s report , which be publish yesterday , before the recess . I stress to he early that the community out there who be campaign feel wound by the way they have be treat since the final report be publish in May last year . if it be leave to the fag end of this parliamentary term and squeeze in on the last day , that would just exacerbate the situation . can I stress to the Leader of the House , for her discussion with the Paymaster General , that we should not leave it that late ? as ever , my hon . friend raise important issue around the infected blood scandal . as I have say to he before , since we come into Government last year we have try to be incredibly forthcoming with the House in many statement and a debate , and we have try our good to move forward the compensation scheme , which be now under way . I hear what he have to say . we need time to consider the finding of that report , but we absolutely be commit to ensure that the statement be make to the House before we rise . Diolch , Dirprwy Lefarydd . this month , Ynys M ô n ' s status as a UNESCO global geopark be due its revalidation process to assess the functionality and quality of its status . the island be a globally significant site for geological study and appreciation , with a vast geological history span four era , twelve geological period and 1 . 8 billion year . will the Leader of the House join I in commend the trustee and volunteer at the GeoM ô n centre in Porth Amlwch , whose hard work ensure that Ynys M ô n maintain its world - renowne status ? I thank the hon . member for raise somewhere that I visit regularly . it be a beautiful part of the world , and I know many people enjoy go there . she be absolutely right to point out that , in addition to that , it be an important geological site where much study take place . I support all her effort in raise those issue and will ensure that she get a response . last night , I be delighted to host the Lost Mothers project in Parliament to share its report and the consequence for female offender who experience pregnancy and give birth in prison . the project be join by the Clean Break theatre company , whose play base on the finding of the report dramatise the struggle and trauma cause by maternal separation . will the Leader of the House encourage Ministry of Justice colleague to read and consider the finding of the Lost Mothers report when make change to sentence guideline ? my hon . friend be a great campaigner on these issue . I thank she for raise the Lost Mothers campaign and its report , and I will ensure that Ministers respond to it . the Government be commit to address the specific need of woman in our criminal justice system , include pregnant woman ; that be the work of the Women ' s Justice Board . I will ensure that there be a decent reply on the Lost Mothers report . do the Leader of the House agree that it be wholly unacceptable for a senior official at his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs to refuse to respond to repeat reasonable request from I on behalf of my constituent ? we have correspondence go back to early March . will she meet I to discuss how we can ensure proper accountability for some of these arm ' s length body and that we get timely response from executive agency in all case ? I be sorry to hear about the case the right hon . Gentleman describe . I be happy to work with he to try to get a more prompt reply from HMRC . this be the second time that this issue have be raise in this session . I expect arm ' s length body that be responsible for big service , big expenditure and issue that really matter to our constituent to be responsive to mps and ensure that they get reply when they need they . last weekend mark Airborne Forces Weekend . I be privileged to attend the official opening of the new Airborne Memorial Shelter at Aldershot military cemetery . the shelter be a moving and permanent tribute to the service and sacrifice of our airborne force , include those who lose their life in the tragic air crash at Little Baldon 60 year ago , on 6 July 1965 . will the Leader of the House join I in pay tribute to the tireless work of Tommy Simpson , Richard Stacey and the Aldershot Parachute Regimental Association , whose quiet effort over many year make the project a reality ? they be Aldershot ' s fine , and those who wear the maroon beret be Britain ' s fine . what a real tribute that be to all those from our airborne force . I join my hon . friend in thank the Aldershot Parachute Regimental Association and all those involve in deliver this really important project . I know she have also work with my hon . friend the Members for Colchester ( Pam Cox ) and for Southend East and Rochford ( Mr Alaba ) , himself a veteran paratrooper , to honour the legacy of all those involve . I thank she for her leadership on this really important issue . there be over 10 , 000 education , health and care plan currently register in Devon and the average cost be rise — it be now over £ 18 , 000 per pupil . much of that be spend on private provider who be not subject to the rigorous oversight that we demand of SEND provision in the state sector . give that the Leader of the House speak a moment ago about a forthcoming SEND White Paper , may we first have a debate on how SEND provision can be improve in the south - west and across the country ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to highlight some of the real challenge we face in the sector . a number of very expensive private place be often seek by those private provider . they do not have the same level of standard , accountability and value for money that we would expect in the public sector . this be just one of the many difficult area that we will need to tackle as we consider our special educational need reform , and we will be do that . East Hunsbury primary school in my constituency have be name the kind school in Britain . will the Leader of the House join I in commend the school , Kelly Roberts the mental health lead , and , in particular , all the student who put themselves forward to be kindness ambassador ? do she agree that in our act in this place , online and in the press , we could all be a bit more like East Hunsbury primary school and always act with kindness ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate the kind school in the country , which be in his constituency . maybe I could extend an invitation to the kindness ambassador to come and meet I and other member , so we can share a bit more kindness across the House . Madam Deputy Speaker , may I echo the condolence express by my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) ? it be good to see you back in your place . I hope the Leader of the House will join I in celebrate the new escape room attraction that have open in my constituency this week — it be call Stafford . yesterday , Sandon Road be close , Weston Road be gridlocke , Newport Road have roadwork and Beaconside be always to be avoid , leave Lichfield Road the only road out of town . may we please have a debate in Government time on how Staffordshire county council need to get its act together and sort out the endless roadwork blight my constituency ? this be at least the third time my hon . friend have raise with I the problem roadwork her constituent be endure because Staffordshire county council have not be able to manage they properly . she describe it as an escape room , which might evoke a sense of fun , but I know that for her constituent it be anything but fun — more a live nightmare . she be absolutely right to call out Staffordshire county council , which really need to get a grip . this question be from Miranda and Leo , constituent who have be do work experience with I this week and be in the Public Gallery today . they be student at Brighton , Hove and Sussex sixth - form college — BHASVIC — which be one of the country ' s top state sixth form . they have to travel to college by train . the Unizone train pass offer travel into Brighton for just £ 22 per month within a 30 - mile coastal zone from worthe to Eastbourne , but it do not extend north to Mid Sussex , where Leo and Miranda live , just five mile away . it cost they £ 70 to £ 90 extra per month , which equate to £ 2 , 000 more over the two year they will be at college . give that the Government ' s mission be to break down barrier to opportunity for every child at every stage , do the Leader of the House agree that that fare system be unfair , and will she make time for a debate on fair access to public transport for college student ? I join the hon . Lady in welcome all the student from BHASVIC , which sound like an outstanding sixth - form college that produce wonderful student such as those with we today . their question be a really pertinent one . it be unacceptable that there be those difference in travel cost , which be a real barrier to young people get the education , training and job opportunity that they need . that be why we be take step to address they , whether through our transport strategy plan , bus fare cap and opportunity for young people . we will also introduce the devolution Bill to ensure that area can work collectively to break down such false boundary . this week , Sky News report the testimony of an anonymous israeli soldier , who admit that the killing or capture of palestinian civilian often depend on the day and on the mood of the commander . that chilling account add to a grow body of evidence suggest a systematic disregard of palestinian civilian life . in the light of the ongoing report of killing , violation and force displacement , will the Leader of the House press the Foreign Secretary to clarify urgently that the UK Government be consider further sanction , and what concrete representation have be make to the israeli Government to ensure compliance with international law and the protection of civilian ? we strongly condemn some of the recent israeli military operation in Gaza , and we be strongly opposed to further settler expansion into the west bank . we have be call for Israel to end its blockade of aid into Gaza . there be an urgent need for more good and aid to get in , because there be extensive humanitarian need in the area , as my hon . friend well know . we have already pause trade discussion with Israel , and we have sanction individual and organisation support or incite violence against palestinian community . as I be sure he will appreciate , we do not comment on possible future sanction . the Institute for Fiscal Studies be undoubtedly the country ' s lead economic research institute . I pay tribute to Paul Johnson , who finish after 14 year in his role , and welcome Helen Miller . clearly , there be challenge for all party in make tough choice about our public finance , but could we have a debate about the option face the Government ? the deputy leader of Reform yesterday come up with a figure that be half what the IFS say a certain measure would cost . if we be to make the right decision , and be lead by rational economic analysis rather than by rhetoric , it be important that this House , and the experience that lie within it , inform the decision make in the autumn . I join the right hon . gentleman in thank Paul Johnson , who I think we all acknowledge have do a commendable job as the director of the IFS over many year , and I look forward to hear more from Helen Miller , the incoming director . the right hon . Gentleman be right to recognise the challenging economic time that we be in . he will not like I say this , but we inherit a big black hole in the public finance . reserve have be spend in the first half of the year , with public sector pay recommendation sit on Ministers ' desk but without a penny allocate to they . that have mean a very challenging time for we . it be why we have put a premium on financial stability — not because we want to align with Office for Budget Responsibility spreadsheet , but because we know that those on the low income pay the heavy price when the economy run into problem , which we want to address . the House debate those issue regularly , and I be sure that we will continue to do so . of course , Budgets be deliver to the House first . follow yesterday ' s " Act now , Change Forever " mass lobby of Parliament , organise by the Climate Coalition , will the Leader of the House make time to debate the serious nature of develop country ' debt , which prevent those nation from adequately spend to mitigate a climate crisis they have do the least to cause , and the unique position our Government be in to legislate and bring private creditor to the negotiating table ? I thank my hon . friend for raise the issue of the " Act now , Change forever " campaign . she will know that tackle the climate crisis and our mission to be a clean energy superpower by 2030 be at the heart of what this Government be about . the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero will come to the House soon to make a statement about these issue , and I be sure my hon . friend can raise those then . research from the University of Bath have uncover serious violation of the pharmaceutical code of practice by Novo Nordisk , one of the company behind new weight loss drug . the company covertly pay million of pound to healthcare group and charity to promote its drug . in the light of the Government ' s active support for weight - loss treatment , can we have a debate in Government time or at least a statement on the transparency and regulation of the company behind weight - loss drug ? the hon . member raise a really important issue . we recognise that medicine and their availability need to be carefully monitor and regulate , and there be various process in place to do that . I will ensure she get a reply from Health Ministers about that particular case . after many year of dedicated service , a former police officer from my constituency be be fail by the Scottish Public Pensions Agency ' s mishandle of the police pension scheme and outrageous delay to the issuing of remediable service statement . month of delay in receive her remediable service statement have leave she unable to plan for her future . instead of enjoy a well - earn retirement , she be now force to continue work due to the failure of the SNP Government in Holyrood . this be not just the usual SNP incompetence ; it be a betrayal of those who have serve our community . do the Leader of the House agree not only that this situation be deeply shameful but that the only way to restore dignity to our public servant and honour the promise of a secure retirement for worker across Scotland be to elect a Scottish Labour Government next year ? I absolutely agree with the sentiment of my hon . friend ' s question ; it be a shocking case . the SNP ' s record in government be one of waste , short - termism and a lack of transparency , fail the people of Scotland and constituent like hers . our police officer do phenomenal work every day , and they deserve respect and dignity in retirement . at a recent constituency surgery , a constituent come to I who be in receipt of the survivor police pension . she draw my attention to the anomaly that if she be to remarry or cohabit , she would lose her pension . there have be an ongoing campaign about this for a number of year . I be look to apply for a Backbench Business debate , but could the Leader of the House ask a Minister to make a statement and forestall that debate ? there be quite a lot of issue I know about at the Dispatch Box , but this be not one of they . the hon . member raise a really important point about entitlement to the survivor police pension should someone remarry , and I be sure it would make a very popular Adjournment debate if he be to apply for one . in the meantime , I will ensure he get a ministerial reply to his question . the north - east be know for its passion for football , and last week I go to a walk football session at Blaydon youth and community centre , host by the Newcastle United Foundation and support by the Premier League . there be plenty of Toon Army pride on show , though not a lot of walking , but beyond the football it be a chance for folk to talk , connect , forge friendship , and improve wellbee . may we have a debate in Government time about the importance of football in support community wellbee ? I think I be right in say that it be my hon . friend ' s birthday today , so may I wish she a very happy birthday ? she have take the occasion to remind the whole House of the important role that football , grassroots football and grassroots sport can play in the wellbeing of all our community . I support the effort of Blaydon youth and community centre , and all those involve in the walk football session . I hope that they do many more in the future . on Monday , I speak to a constituent who work at the Jessie May charity , which provide hospice - at - home care for child and young people in my constituency and beyond . it be currently fundraise to meet run cost of £ 300 , 000 — cost that can not in any way be help by the capital funding for hospice announce by the Government . it be to be commend on have manage to raise more than £ 183 , 000 so far , but that be clearly not a sustainable way of provide such vital healthcare . will the Leader of the House ask the relevant Minister to make a statement on how hospice care can be fund sustainably ? I join the hon . member in pay tribute to all those involve in the work of the Jessie May charity . as constituency mp , we all know of the immense work that those who work in hospice do for we all and for society as a whole , as well as care for those individual at the end of life . she raise an important issue in that hospice have for too long rely on a great deal of their funding come from fundraising and the charity sector . this Government be here to support hospice . the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care will be in the Chamber shortly to make a different statement , and I will ensure that he have hear the hon . member ' s question and be forthcoming with an answer . on Tuesday Ukraine suffer its heavy aerial attack , as more than 700 , 000 drone and 13 missile strike city around the country , and the BBC report today that Russia conduct another massive overnight attack on Kyiv . later this month , I will be drive an ambulance with medical supply to Ukraine , with a local business that have be deliver supply since the beginning of the war . will the Leader of the House commend the action of british organisation up and down the country who have stand in solidarity with our ukrainian ally , and do she agree that we must never back down in the face of russian aggression ? I absolutely join my hon . friend in commend the action of british organisation up and down the country , and all their support for Ukraine and Ukrainians , whether they be here or still in Ukraine . the UK will stand shoulder to shoulder with Ukraine today , tomorrow and for 100 year from now . that be why we recently sign our historic 100 - year partnership agreement with President Zelensky , and I hope the whole House will support that . the liberal Democrats welcome the Government ' s 10 - year health plan , and I be sure member across the House will agree that support access to innovative treatment for patient be a crucial part of that . industry figure tell I that the current approach be a barrier when it come to medicine that be useful in the treatment of more than one condition . will the Leader of the House allow a debate in Government time on access to innovative treatment as part of the 10 - year plan and the national cancer plan ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right : access to innovative medicine and treatment still take far too long , which be why those issue be a core part of our NHS 10 - year plan and indeed our cancer plan . we want people to get some of those medicine fast and for the trial to be make easy , and I will ensure that the hon . Gentleman get a response about that . next week be bee ' need Week , a chance to highlight the vital role that pollinator play in our environment and to encourage everybody to get involve to help these essential specie . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Cannock Wood and Gentleshaw Gardening Club on its recent successful open garden day , which I go along to ? not only do the club bring our community together in the most beautiful way , and inspire plenty of garden envy , but it also raise fund for the Bumblebee Conservation Trust — a fantastic example of local people make a national difference . I will certainly join my hon . friend in congratulate Cannock Wood and Gentleshaw Gardening Club on its commitment to bring the community together and raise fund for the Bumblebee Conservation Trust . I be sure there be a real buzz about the place at that event . later today , a bust of the late and right honourable David Trimble will be unveil in the other place . David be the former MP for Upper Bann , a peer and the leader of the Ulster Unionist party . he lead we through the Belfast agreement negotiation , for which he rightly receive the Nobel peace prize , along with John Hume . Senator George Mitchell , who chair those negotiation , say : " David Trimble take enormous personal and political risk for peace . he demonstrate courage , determination and leadership at a time when compromise be dangerous and difficult . without his resolve , the Good Friday agreement would not have be possible . " will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate and thank those behind today ' s event , and in remembering and acknowledge David ' s personal and political contribution to Northern Ireland , and his leadership ? I join the hon . gentleman in pay our respect and give our thank to Lord Trimble for his courage , determination and leadership . we all remember the incredible role that he play in bring about the Good Friday agreement . as the hon . Gentleman say , Lord Trimble put his own political career at risk in take such a leadership role , and that be why he and John Hume be jointly award the Nobel peace prize , which be a fitting tribute . I join the hon . gentleman in thank all those behind the event today . in the week that the Football Governance Bill continue its progress through Parliament , may I draw the House ' s attention to the 3up campaign to secure an extra promotion place from the national league to league two ? I be support the campaign , alongside my brilliant local football club , Altrincham FC . could we have a debate on how the 3up campaign could build on the Football Governance Bill in ensure that opportunity and money flow fairly through english football ? I know what a great football club Altrincham FC be and how much my hon . friend , as the local MP , support they . he be absolutely right that the Football Governance Bill be an important step in ensure that fan and community , like those who support Altrincham FC , be right back at the heart of our football system . I be sure that a debate on the 3up campaign would get a lot of support . last week , I ask the Leader of the House if she would join I in wish good luck to Freedom Performing Arts , which be perform at the world championship in Spain . I be sure she will be pleased to hear that the six to nine - year - old secure a bronze medal . Amy and the team be really chuff . last week , I visit Golf in Society — an initiative through which a group of volunteer and pay staff take people who live with Parkinson ' s , dementia and other age - relate condition out , ensure that they get out and about , and keep fit and active . will the Leader of the House make time in Government time for a debate on how such initiative help old people with age and associate disease ? I be pleased to hear that Freedom Performing Arts get a bronze medal — that be fantastic . I join the hon . gentleman in thank all those who work with people with dementia and those who be age to keep they independent , active and involve in initiative like the one that he visit this week . the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care be now in his place . the NHS 10 - year plan , and all the work that we be do in the NHS and in health in this country , be about bring service back into the community , as well as prevention and exactly the sort of initiative that he describe . the first shiremoor child ' s treat take place in 1907 . last weekend — 118 year later — I be delighted to attend this year ' s treat . local school like Shiremoor , Holystone and Backworth Park take part , and North Tyneside Disability Forum and West Allotment Celtic all join in to make the day a huge success . a huge thank you go to Cheryl and all the member of the organise committee for the big and good treat yet . can we find time to recognise these event , which be at the heart of our community , and to discuss how we protect such legacy for future generation ? the shiremoor child ' s treat sound like a fantastic occasion ; for child , I be sure that anything include the word " treat " attract a great deal of interest . my hon . friend be absolutely right to say that the volunteer and community leader who organise these thing do a great service to all our community , and I commend she for raise that event . I declare my interest : I be a registered provider of social housing , and before the election I have support from a construction firm in my constituency . yesterday the Competition and Markets Authority find , in its notice to accept commitment from the big seven house builder , that " suspect conduct may have have the object or effect of prevent , restrict or distort competition " . it also state : " it may be presume that party take the competitively sensitive information into account . " the CMA be consider accept a payment of £ 100 million to halt that investigation . give the scale and seriousness of the suspect conduct , should not Parliament decide whether thousand of people have pay over the odd for their home ? should it not decide whether it be right that the Government and the CMA should accept £ 100 million and whether the propose commitment will go far enough to create the competitive industry we need to see ? it be right that the CMA look at these issue and ensure that we have true competition . this Government be absolutely committed to more house building and to more truly affordable home and social home . these be matter for the CMA and the Government , and I will ensure that the hon . Gentleman get a full response . Tea be the most popular beverage in the world next to water , provide work for about 13 million people worldwide , but half of young Kenyan tea picker survey by Fairtrade say that the impact of climate change on tea production be the big challenge , and only one in five tea farmer and worker survey earn enough money to support their family . will the Leader of the House agree to a debate in Government time about introduce a UK law on human right and environmental due diligence centre on the need of overseas farmer and worker so that they can have a living wage , as well ensure we address the unsustainable purchasing practice and business model that undermine progress ? my hon . friend be right to raise those issue . we all enjoy a cup of tea — Yorkshire Tea be my preferred option . he be right to remind we that as we drink our many cup of tea a day , we really need to think about where that tea come from , and ensure that we have fair trade and that those who pick the tea and work in the tea sector be treat fairly , with fair pay . this government be take step to ensure that . I wish to raise the disturbing report of abuse suffer by Alawite woman abduct by jihadist group in Syria — include , unfortunately , prolong sexual violence in underground prison run by group such as Jaysh al - Islam . will the Leader of the House ask Ministers to update this House on the assessment of the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office ? what step be the UK take with partner to investigate these horrible crime , and to support the survivor and ensure that their voice be include in future justice effort ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise another very serious and difficult issue in the House . the Foreign Secretary , in his conversation with the syrian Government and other , continue to press they to take concrete action follow the horrific violence that continue to be commit against the Alawite community , as the hon . Gentleman say . I will ensure that he and the House be keep update . will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on the accessibility of banking service for disabled people and those with additional support need ? that would follow concern raise with I by the banking campaign steering group — part of the Advisory Group in Glasgow , base in my constituency — which report widespread discrimination , branch closure and exclusion from cashless - only business , prompt its campaign for more inclusive banking . absolutely . we need to see more banking service , which be why we have the programme of banking hub . we need to make sure that banking service , access to cash and all the service that come with that be inclusive and that we have those thing in mind , because it be the people who be often exclude from those service who need they the most . my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise that point . I recently meet volunteer at Kiveton Park football club , who do an incredible job organise countless team for boy , girl , man and woman in our area . they also have a disabled team for boy and girl — one of only a few in the wide South Yorkshire area — and I be really pleased that the Minister for Sport be go to visit that team and watch they play a game over the August recess . could the Leader of the House organise a debate about the importance of local sport team and , in particular , sport provision for disabled people ? I be pleased to hear that my hon . friend have secure a visit from the Minister to his local football club — and if he have not already secure it , he have now . he be absolutely right to mention the important role that disability sport play in keep those with disability active and independent and give they purpose and self - worth , so I applaud the work of his local club . a few week ago , I be invite to bowl at Ibstock bowl club at a joint fundraising event with Sands United FC Ashby . that team welcome man from across my constituency who have be bereave by pregnancy loss and child loss to play football and to chat if they need to . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate those two local club on come together to raise money for Sands , the national baby loss charity , and will she consider a debate in Government time to discuss the impact of baby loss and support for family who experience it ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate those club in her constituency on bring people together to raise money and to raise awareness of baby loss . she have highlight once again the valuable role that local football club and other local sporting club can play in bring people together and deal with mental health issue and other health need — they provide a wonderful service . I recently meet a group of ukrainian family who have settle in my constituency — it be a privilege to hear their individual story at first hand . after three year , Putin ' s war still rage on . the UK Government operate the Ukraine permission extension scheme , allow participant an 18 - month extension to remain in the UK . I understand that we must respect Ukraine ' s desire to see all its citizen return to Ukraine when peace be secure ; however , many of my ukrainian constituent have secure home and good employment , or be in full - time education . they enrich our community and see their future in West Dunbartonshire . will the Leader of the House arrange for a debate in Government time to review how we can provide stability to those seek career advancement or to complete high education , end the uncertainty of short - term visa and start to plan a pathway towards indefinite leave to remain for Ukrainians who have make this country their home ? I think every one of we be proud of the way in which this country have welcome so many Ukrainians in recent year , give they a home and refuge and support they in their time of need . he be right that we have to take into account the wish of the Ukrainian Government , who want to see many of their citizen return to Ukraine . our approach need to respect those wish , but my hon . friend have raise the important issue of long - term security and access to high education , housing and other thing , and I will ensure that he get a full response . the maritime sector offer very rewarding career , particularly to people like I , who get quite excited by large - scale engineering project . I think someone in the Department for Transport share my enthusiasm , because they have award funding to set up the Tees maritime cluster , which be train young people in our area . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate some local business — AV Dawson , Womble Bond Dickinson , PD Ports and Steel Benders — that work hard to establish that cluster ? give the obvious interest of the Department for Transport , perhaps we can have a debate in Government time on the opportunity for young people in the maritime sector . I be really pleased to hear about the development of the Tees maritime cluster and all the opportunity it be go to bring for young people , include job opportunity . it will show the strength of my hon . friend ' s constituent in contribute to the maritime industry , and I think it would make a very good topic for a debate . this week , Yorkshire Water announce a hosepipe ban . this follow a 29 % hike in bill and continued pollution of our river . can my right hon . friend tell I how I can use Parliament to hold this company to account on behalf of my constituent ? I be sure many member across the House share my hon . friend ' s frustration about water company operate in their constituency . frankly , some of the bad behaviour of those water company have go on for too long , and there have not be enough accountability or action on the issue that matter to we all . that be why we bring in the Water ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 and establish the commission on the future of water governance . further legislation on this matter will come forward in due course . I thank the Leader of the House for her response this morning . resident doctor : Industrial Action with your permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will make a statement on plan industrial action by resident doctor . today ' s waiting list figure show that after 14 year of decline , the NHS be finally move in the right direction . since July , we have cut waiting list by 260 , 000 . we promise to deliver an extra 2 million appointment in our first year , and have more than double that figure , deliver 4 . 6 million more appointment . for the first time in 17 year , waiting list fall in the month of May , and they now stand at their low level in more than two year . that be what can happen when NHS staff and a Labour Government work together . we have put the NHS on the road to recovery , but we all know that it be still hang by a thread , and that the bma be threaten to pull that thread . on Tuesday this week , I meet the co - chair of the bma ' s resident doctor committee to discuss the result of its ballot for industrial action . in that meeting , and in a letter I send yesterday , I offer to meet the bma ' s full resident doctor committee and work with it to improve its member ' work life . since the start of this year , I have offer repeatedly to meet the entire committee , but it still have not take up my offer . instead of agree to talk , the BMA respond by announce five day of strike action . its planned strike action will run from 7 am on Friday 25 July to 7 am on Wednesday 30 July . these strike be unnecessary , give this Government ' s willingness and eagerness to work together to improve resident doctor ' work condition . follow a 28 . 9 % pay rise thank to the action of this Government , the BMA ' s threatened industrial action be entirely unreasonable . I be ask it again today to pause , call off the strike , and instead work with the Government to rebuild its member ' work condition and rebuild our NHS . before this government come into office , a toxic combination of conservative mismanagement and strike be cripple the NHS . the cost to the NHS run to £ 1 . 7 billion in just one year ; patient see 1 . 5 million operation and appointment cancel , and people ' s life be ruin . Phoebe suffer from a genetic condition : neurofibromatosis , which cause non - cancerous tumour on the outside of her body . her first operation at Great Ormond Street hospital be cancel twice — at first due to strike , and then because there be not the capacity to treat she . Phoebe love go to school , and it be an absolute tragedy that her education be set back . she be prevent from do what she love because the NHS be not there for she when she need it , but this year , when Phoebe ' s family contact Great Ormond Street in March , her surgery be schedule less than two week later . compare with what she go through two year ago , the difference be night and day . that be the difference a Labour Government make , and it be why this Government be absolutely right to end the strike when we come to office . I be so proud of what we have achieve together with NHS staff . in the word of one NHS leader I speak to recently , there be light at the end of the tunnel and , for the first time , it be not an oncoming train . that have only be possible because of the deal this government negotiate . when we agree that deal to end the strike last year , resident doctor do not just receive a 22 % pay rise ; the Government also give a genuine commitment to build a new partnership with those we now call resident doctor , base on mutual respect . I have personally ensure that that commitment be follow through . a new exception reporting process have be agree with resident doctor in principle , so that doctor be pay for the work they be ask to do . a review of rotational training be under way and almost complete to reduce disruption to resident doctor ' life . we promise to tackle GP unemployment , and we have deliver with an extra 1 , 900 gps on the frontline who be otherwise face unemployment . I be determined to go far to tackle doctor unemployment . when I say to resident doctor that I want to tackle the bottleneck they face , and the unfair competition for specialty training place , and to create more training place , they can judge I not just by my word , but by my action . when the pay review body recommend a 5 . 4 % average pay rise for resident doctor this year , we accept that and fund it in full . those be not ground for industrial action . indeed , in the history of british trade union , it be completely unprecedented for a pay rise of 28 . 9 % to be meet with strike . the BMA itself describe this pay rise as " generous " . thank to this Government , the average annual earning per first year resident doctor last year be £ 43 , 275 . that be significantly more , in a resident doctor ' s first year , than the average full - time worker in this country , and it be set to increase far with this year ' s pay award . for resident doctor in their second year out of medical school , their average annual earning rise to £ 52 , 300 last year . in core training year , resident doctor earn an average of £ 67 , 000 . specialty registrar earn on average almost £ 75 , 000 . there be no question but that these be highly train , highly skilled medic who work hard for their money , but to threaten strike in these circumstance be unreasonable and unnecessary , so it be no wonder that the BMA have lose the public ' s support . at the beginning of this dispute , resident doctor face a Conservative Government cut their pay and refuse to talk to they . a clear majority support action as a result . in February 2023 , 56 % of the public back junior doctor strike . today , that support have collapse . just one in five people believe that the bma be do the right thing . patient be beg resident doctor not to walk out on they , and I hope the BMA be listen , because many resident doctor be . for the first time since the BMA ' s campaign begin , a majority of bma resident doctor do not vote for strike action . they can see that the Government have change and our approach have change , yet the BMA ' s tactic have not . resident doctor have receive the high pay award in the public sector , both this year and last year , so renegotiate this year ' s pay award would be deeply unfair to all other public servant . such a deal would be pay for by their future earning , and with the great respect to resident doctor , there be people work in our public service who be feel the pinch more than they be . even if it would not be unfair on public sector worker , it be unaffordable . it should be apparent to anyone that the public finance this Government inherit be not awash with cash , so I will not and can not negotiate on this year ' s pay award , and I be not go to lead resident doctor up the garden path by make promise unless I know I can keep they . as I have say in person , in writing , in private and in public , I be willing and ready to get around the table and work together to improve the work condition of resident doctor . there be so much more that we can do together . I do not just hear the complaint that resident doctor have about their placement , rotation and bottleneck — I agree with they . I know the NHS have be a bad employer , and I be determined to change it . my offer to talk come with no precondition attach . I will also say this to resident doctor directly : consider very carefully the consequence of your action . order . may I suggest to the Secretary of State that his statement have already take 10 minute and he have not ask for additional time ? do he wish to consider whether his statement be to the House , or to those outside the House ? he might like to make a few closing remark . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I will move to closing . I do share the statement in advance , include with opposition party and the Speaker ' s Office . I just say to resident doctor , and it be important that the House know what we be say to they , that they should carefully consider the consequence of their action . five day of strike action mean patient and their family receive the phone call they be currently dread , be tell that the operation or appointment they have be wait for — often for far too long — be be cancel and delay . I know how I would feel if that happen to a member of my family , and I ask they to consider how they would feel if that happen to a member of theirs . while they be out on the picket line , protest the 28 . 9 % pay increase they have have , their friend and colleague and other NHS staff — many of whom be pay less and receive less than they — will be inside , pick up the piece and work in hard condition to cover for the consequence of resident doctor ' action . in conclusion , the strike be not only unnecessary and unreasonable , but unfair . they be unfair on patient , unfair on other NHS staff , and unfair to the future of the NHS , which be in jeopardy . the tragedy be that they will never have have a Secretary of State as sympathetic to their legitimate complaint as this one . if they want to know what the alternative be , its member be not sit here . they have not even bother to show up today , and that party do not even believe in the NHS . the grass be not green on the other side . I ask they not to squander this opportunity . at this stage , we can still come out of this dispute with a win for the BMA ' s member , a win for the NHS and a win for patient , but if the BMA continue down the path of strike action , it will lose its campaign , resident doctor will be bad off , and the heavy price of all will be pay by patient . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for his typical courtesy and advance sight of his statement . I also note that he be among the most assiduous of Ministers in volunteer himself to this House to be question on issue of importance . I be , however , afraid it come as no surprise that we be here today discuss likely industrial action on this Government ' s watch . last year , we warn the government that cave in to union demand for above - inflation pay rise without any condition or string attach would set a dangerous precedent . it would send a message that the Government be weak , and we warn that the union would simply come back for more . unfortunately , event in recent day have show that we be right . the public will be understandably concerned about what this industrial action will mean for they and the provision of local NHS service . for patient with an appointment schedule or even on a waiting list , that concern will be particularly acute . let I be clear : this bma strike action — as the Secretary of State have say , it be support by less than 50 % of those eligible to vote — be irresponsible , wrong and unnecessary . on that , I agree with the Secretary of State . will the Secretary of State enlarge on the additional step that he be take to seek to resolve the industrial dispute and prevent the strike action from go ahead ? I hear what he say about his willingness to talk . do he anticipate further meeting before strike start on 25 July , and do he anticipate a risk of any other part of the NHS workforce ballot for strike action ? if this strike action do take place , what step be be put in place to minimise disruption , what be the plan to protect patient who will need to access NHS service over this period , and can the Secretary of State guarantee that emergency cover will remain and that there will be minimum service level in place ? more broadly , and base on the previous strike , how many appointment do the Government anticipate be at risk of be cancel or postpone , and have he assess what impact the decision by the bma will have on his aim of reduce waiting list and meet his 18 - week target ? the previous chief financial officer of NHS England say that nearly all the money allocate to the NHS at the autumn Budget will be eat up by NHS pay settlement , the national insurance hike and increase inflationary cost , just to maintain service at their exist level . follow the recent spending review and the Chancellor ' s announcement of additional funding , how much of that do the Secretary of State anticipate will be spend on staffing cost , include the already agree pay award and the national insurance increase , and how much of it will actually make it to the frontline in the form of additional care , or to fund the reform that he set out recently ? what do the Secretary of State anticipate will be the long - last impact of strike action on relation between the Government and trade union in the health space ? the 10 - year plan be publish just last week . as I say at the time , it be sensible and I be supportive of what he have set out in that , but concern have be raise about its deliverability . the Secretary of State have say previously that he will need to work with the union to deliver on the plan . be he still confident that that will be possible ? do he believe that they will agree to the change that be require , or be there a risk of further strike action over the come year because doctor have sense a weakness ? in opposition , the Secretary of State have some very strong and well - articulate view on industrial action . he say strike action be " play politic with our nhs " . on that , I agree with he . he say that " the Government ought to be pull out all the stop " — [ Official Report , 22 December 2022 ; Vol . 724 , c . 218 . ] and that " the power to stop these strike be in the Government ' s hand . " — [ Official Report , 12 December 2022 ; Vol . 724 , c . 732 . ] he be the Secretary of State now . do he agree that the power to stop these strike be in his hand ? our message to the Government be clear . the Secretary of State need to do what he have say he will do : face down union pressure and deliver an affordable settlement that be fair to staff , patient and , crucially , taxpayer . on his watch , resident doctor be set to leave the frontline to go on to the picket line — whether that happen will be down to he . sadly , Labour ' s weakness be fuel this crisis . if the government do not get a grip now , a summer of discontent and strike risk turn into a summer of chaos , and it will be patient who pay the price . I think the shadow Secretary of State ' s memory be let he down . let I just remind he that before the general election , and after month of refuse to meet the bma , the conservative finally enter negotiation , but not before strike be leave to run and run — at a cost of £ 1 . 7 billion to the taxpayer — and 1 . 5 million operation , appointment and procedure be cancel . they also offer the bma junior doctor a pay rise , which be only about 4 % of the pay rise that we eventually agree . imagine what would have happen if the Conservatives have pull their finger out and get the doctor around the table soon , and have not be quite so intransigent . the shadow Secretary of State be right to say that I criticise my predecessor for their unwillingness to negotiate . the difference between I and they be that I have act . resident doctor have have a 28 . 9 % pay increase thank to the decision that I have take as Secretary of State , with the support of the entire government . they have a Secretary of State who do not slam the door in their face , but who be open to work with they to improve their condition . the responsibility for these strike lie squarely with those run the bma ' s resident doctor committee . despite fail to get a majority of their member to vote for strike action for the first time in their campaign , they be still propose to lead their member out on a five - day strike . they even make the announcement on the day that I have already write to they to suggest that we meet to avert unnecessary strike action . the shadow Secretary of State be right to talk about the jeopardy face the future . because we produce our 10 - year plan in partnership with patient , the public and NHS staff , there be not only much in it that resident doctor should welcome , but much that they suggest . our 10 - year workforce plan will set out training , education and retention of the workforce , and we will work closely with resident doctor on standard . they should start to experience an improvement in their working condition on everything from the availability of nutritious food and drink to reduce violence against staff and tackle discrimination . we have already commit to prioritise UK graduate for training , and we have start a conversation on contractual reform with trade union across the board . we be determined to recruit more people locally and to tackle social disadvantage , access to medicine and all the issue that be at the forefront of the mind of resident doctor , such as placement , rotation and future career progression , include specialty bottleneck . I absolutely want to work with they . these be not condition for strike . these be condition to work in partnership with the Government , just as other NHS union and so many other trade union across the public sector do . I say to resident doctor once more that sit in front of I be the ghost of Christmas past . reform — its member be not in their place today — be the ghost of Christmas future . perhaps bma member might consider that they be lucky to have the ghost of Christmas present in front of they . I be glad the Secretary of State have remind conservative Members that they have rather short - term memory . when I take my place in this House last year , thousand of my resident in Gloucester be on NHS waiting list — many of they for long than 18 month . since this Labour Government take power last year , the number have come down by 92 % , in part thank to the hard work of resident doctor in my constituency . do the Secretary of State agree that strike action by the BMA will put that recovery at risk ? will he invite its member to meet my resident who be still on the waiting list leave behind by the conservative party , so that they can explain why the 28 . 9 % pay rise , which many of my constituent will not receive this year , be not enough ? I completely agree with my hon . friend . I urge bma member to consider not just the significant progress that they have already make by work with a Labour Government , but the wide context in which we be operate . it be not just resident doctor who have see their pay erode over more than a decade of Conservative Government ; it be the entire public sector . it be not just resident doctor who be work in crumble building with out - of - date equipment and technology ; it be the same in our school , our hospital , our prison and the entire public sector estate . this government be face enormous challenge across our economy , and we can not sort out every issue that we inherit overnight , or even in one year — it be go to take time . bma member should be proud of the progress that we have make together , and reassure that we want to make further progress with they , but there have to be some give and take here , and there have to be some reasonableness . give the potential consequence of their action for patient , for their fellow staff and for the future of the NHS , the strike action be unreasonable , unnecessary and deeply unfair . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . People across the country , and NHS patient in particular , will be disappoint to hear of yet more strike action by resident doctor this July , especially after the immense disruption of recent year . I and my liberal Democrat colleague fully recognise that this dispute do not come out of nowhere . the previous conservative Government leave our NHS under unbearable strain , with doctor work under intense pressure in crumble hospital and often without the resource they need . my constituent , and people across the country , need and deserve a well - function NHS . over the past three year , doctor have receive a 28 . 9 % pay rise follow early strike . the bma be now call for a further 29 % increase , but we have to be honest : after year of economic mismanagement by the Conservatives , the public finance be in a dire state . that kind of increase do not feel affordable or realistic right now . that say , we can not ignore the reality of work condition in our NHS . doctor be expect to save life in collapse ward and to deliver care in corridor , rather than in safe clinical setting . it be degrading and dangerous for both staff and patient . we need constructive dialogue , not escalation , to resolve this dispute swiftly and fairly , and most importantly , we need urgent action to rebuild our NHS and restore work condition that our doctor and patient can be proud of . first , will the Secretary of State improve staff morale by commit to end the dangerous and dehumanising practice of corridor care ? secondly , do he not see that by drag out social care reform , delay discharge and corridor care be only go to worsen doctor ’ experience of work in the NHS , weaken morale and lower care standard ? I be grateful to the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , and I think I can reassure she on a number of front . first , she be absolutely right to call out the disgrace that be corridor care . despite the good effort of staff , who suffer the moral injury of treat patient in that situation , in too many part of the NHS we have patient be treat on trolley in corridor . in this decade of the 21st century , I think that be unacceptable , as be the emerge nomenclature that have start to describe these as " temporary escalation space " , because we be in danger of normalise what should be consider unacceptable practice . that be why this Government will shortly begin transparently publish corridor care datum show the number of patient be treat on trolley in corridor . I be sure there will be moment when that might cause Ministers and NHS leader to blush , but frankly , until corridor care be consign to history , so we should . sunlight be the good disinfectant , and by publish the datum we will hold ourselves to account , and I be sure this House will hold we to account to ensure that we deliver the condition that staff and patient deserve . I also reassure the hon . member that , while the Casey commission be under way , work on social care go on , whether that be the £ 4 billion increase in investment in social care through the decision take by my right hon . friend the Chancellor , or other improvement such as to carer ' s allowance , the disabled facility grant and uplift in funding for local authority . however , I be also committed to ensure that , as we improve the flow of patient through our hospital and deal with the scourge of delay discharge , we be a lot well at think about how we use the taxpayer pound to good effect to deliver the right care , in the right place and at the right time . that will often mean use NHS resource to commission social care to help tackle delay discharge , and we will be keep a close eye on that . finally , I thank the hon . member for join the voice of reason in this Chamber . I hope it be not lose on the bma and resident doctor watch that this be not a case of an intransigent Government unwilling to work with and support they who be try to face down , for political and ideological purpose , a trade union speak up for its member . this Labour Government have deliver a 28 . 9 % pay increase and we be willing to work far to improve condition for resident doctor . that work can start now , and I be ready to meet the bma immediately . there be other voice of reason in this Chamber , include among the Liberal Democrats , who recognise the pressure on the public finance . they recognise that we be try to do many thing across the NHS that will also directly benefit resident doctor , such as make sure they have the right kit and be work in decent building . we be improve the condition that they be work in and that patient be treat in so that , together , we be build in , work in and be treat in an improve nhs . that be the prize , and that prize be be throw into jeopardy by the resident doctor ' action . if they go down this path , with all of the consequence that will follow , I be afraid — for they , let alone for the NHS and for the country — thing will get bad rather than well , and I urge they not to take that course of action . do my right hon . friend agree that we be right to settle the strike last year , for the sake of ensure the future of the NHS , protect the interest of the public and show our doctor that they be value , that that will always be his position , and that it be therefore somewhat surprising that resident doctor have decide to call this strike ? I strongly agree with my hon . friend — he be absolutely right . I be happy to stand correct , but there be genuinely no historical precedent in the history of british trade unionism for a trade union to have successfully negotiate with the Government of the day a 28 . 9 % increase for its member and then go out on strike . I think that undermine the BMA , and the more reasonable voice in the BMA with whom we continue to work constructively . it certainly undermine our NHS . it also reinforce the grossly unfair caricature , which be often throw at trade union by the Conservatives , that they be all unreasonable , do not want to work with the Government of the day and be only interested in combat and agitation . in my experience , the vast majority of trade union and trade unionist be interested in constructive engagement , strike good deal and move forward the interest not just of their member , but of our whole country . I urge the bma resident doctor committee to stand in that proud tradition of british trade unionism and in the proud tradition of the wide Labour movement , but I be afraid I do not see those tradition or behaviour reflect in the current approach of the BMA RDC . we can all argue about the past , but if it help the Secretary of State , I think we should just say today that the whole House absolutely 100 % support he in his robust attitude . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] of course we all love doctor , but the start salary be not so very bad . they have a job — a very good job — for life , which most people do not have , and he could also mention that they have a much well career structure than most people . a far high proportion of they get the top job — namely , as a consultant — and the consultant ' s start salary of £ 110 , 000 a year be not a bad whack . first , I think that the right hon . member ' s opening statement and the response across the House underline to the BMA and the resident doctor committee that they do not have support across this House — from the left across to the right , with maybe one or two noise off — and that be not typical in my experience of be in this House for the last decade . I think the career of resident doctor and the prospect they can look forward to , which the right hon . member describe , have worsen . that be one of the thing that be at the heart of the dispute they have take up with the previous Government and now with this one . many of the thing doctor use to be able to look forward to — guarantee job and progression into consultant role or general practice — have steadily erode . we have far too much doctor unemployment and far too many specialty bottleneck . we have what I think be a really unreasonable set of behaviour towards resident doctor in term of placement , rotation and the ability to take time off work to attend wedding and other important life moment . the tragedy of the position we find ourselves in be that I recognise that and I want to address it . we can do that together without the need for strike action , and those be not reason for strike . worse still , especially at a time when I be prioritise deal with doctor unemployment , they be inflict further cost on the NHS , patient and the taxpayer . that make my freedom and flexibility and my resource to deal with those issue more limited — that be the tragedy of their tactic . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement and the ongoing work to get the NHS back on its foot after it be push to the brink under the previous Government . strike inevitably have a financial and a human cost to they , and the next round of strike will undoubtedly have that too , mean that the NHS will take a financial hit . can he share the impact that this will have on the system ? for example , can he guarantee that the cost of these strike will not lead to job cut ? in all honesty , I be afraid I can not give my hon . friend that assurance . nhs finance be precariously balanced . we have be relative winner across the Budget and the spending review set out by my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer , but we be ask a lot of the system . as well as the progress and improvement we want in the NHS , we inherit a lot of mess to clean up , and that will take time and resource . every penny spend on the price of failure through strike action be a penny that could have be spend on drive improvement in the service — improvement for patient and for staff — and on create the job and opportunity that mean doctor do not graduate into unemployment and that mean resident doctor can progress into specialty training post . that be why I say clearly and unequivocally to the BMA that if this strike action go ahead , with all the cost , pain and misery that will follow , it will not just be patient — or , indeed , this government — who suffer , but the bma . I have know the Secretary of State a long time . I know he before he be an important man — although he be always important to I , of course . he will know that as a Minister , I work with the trade union in every sector for which I be responsible , as the RMT and the University and College Union will confirm , and I be also a member of the Association of Teachers and Lecturers . I entirely endorse and amplify what he say . responsible trade unionism require people to be reasonable , and reasonable people in this House know that this strike against this background be entirely unacceptable , as he have describe . I ask the Secretary of State this : will he ensure that this unhappy , unwholesome and unhealthy action do not jeopardise the health of my constituent , and will he write to the local authority — the integrate care board — in my area and other to set out how they can minimise the impact of this action ? the last thing that you want , Madam Deputy Speaker , or that I or any Member across this House want , be for those at risk to be put at great risk as a result of this irresponsible action by these militant people . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question . he be that rare beast : a Tory trade unionist . he raise the serious point of the consequence of strike action . I will , of course , keep the House update , but I want to reassure the House that we be take every step possible to mitigate the disruption that these strike will cause . that will come at a financial cost and a cost to patient because of the disruption that will follow . it will also come at a cost to other staff , many of whom be pay less than resident doctor , who will be leave at work with more pressure and in hard condition , pick up the piece because of the action of their colleague who be give a high pay rise , but who will be stand outside protest the 28 . 9 % pay rise that they receive . I assure the House that we will do everything we can to mitigate the impact of the strike on patient and the disruption that will follow . what I can not say to the House , however , be that we can offset or cancel the impact or detriment feel by patient . we will look carefully at the datum on the experience and impact of the strike that occur during the previous round of negotiation . I will ensure that that information be publish so that the House can see the impact of the previous strike , so that we can brace ourselves for what may lie ahead . anyone who have ever work in healthcare know that it be a team sport and that deliver excellent care require a range of staff across the allied health profession include nurse , doctor , administrative staff and estate staff . do the Secretary of State agree that it be therefore essential that all NHS staff group have confidence that their pay be be set fairly , and that go beyond the independent pay review body ' s recommendation for one set of staff would undermine the " one NHS " team ethos that so many have work to build ? I strongly agree with what my hon . Friend say . I have be personally invest in our relationship with resident doctor and in the deal we strike — not just because it be one of the first thing we do when we come into office , and because I be very proud of what we have achieve together , but because I have and still have a huge amount of support and sympathy for resident doctor and a determination to address the issue they be raise . however , I reassure my hon . friend and the House that resident doctor be one part of the NHS workforce — a value part — but I have responsibility for the entire workforce . we set ourselves the task of build an NHS fit for the future , but we can not do it on our own as a government ; it require the whole team to pull together . I will be honest with my hon . friend : I feel a considerable degree of discomfort when I look back at a whole number of deal and pay award , under this Government and our predecessor , where the " Agenda for Change " workforce have be leave far behind . I will be honest with the House : at this moment , I have to resolve the immediate action that be be propose by the BMA , but I be not go to allow the reform we have commit to with the " Agenda for Change " union to be deprioritise — we owe that to they . we owe it to the nurse and to all the " Agenda for Change " staff to ensure that they be pay fairly , be give a fair day ' s pay for a fair day ' s work , and receive the term and condition that they deserve . my priority at this stage be the " Agenda for Change " reform . of course , I will do everything I can to resolve the resident doctor strike , but what I can not do be reopen this year ' s pay award . rise — I remind hon . member and the Secretary of State that we have an important statement to come , as well as two Backbench Business debate . may we have short question and short answer ? I agree with the Secretary of State when he tell the BMA resident doctor that they will never have another Secretary of State as sympathetic to their legitimate complaint — I recognise that , have work with five of his predecessor . my experience tell I that what happen here with the bma often filter through to the devolved nation . what engagement have he have with his counterpart on the propose industrial action so that there can be a combine resolution and message to the BMA ? I reassure the hon . Gentleman that I will obviously engage with my counterpart in the devolved administration . while health be a devolved matter , the decision that we take in this place , and what be go on in the english health system , have a bearing on other health system , and vice versa . I be almost tempt to call back the right hon . member for North East Cambridgeshire ( Steve Barclay ) , who be still a Member of this House , to remind the bma what it go up against twice before ; indeed , I could call back any of my conservative predecessor to remind the BMA that the grass be not green on the other side of this House . it currently have a Secretary of State who have show through action , not just word , a willingness to work together , and I hope that it rediscover the spirit of partnership that we have last year . we all know how vital resident doctor be to the functioning of our national health service . in the light of that , will the Secretary of State join I in once again urge the BMA resident doctor committee to get back around the table to engage in serious talk and to take up his offer to meet in the interest of all NHS staff and patient , so that we can rebuild the national health service in the way the public expect ? quite aside from the fact that I offer to meet the entire resident doctor committee back in January , although it have never take I up on that offer — I would definitely be outnumber in that meeting — I can reassure the House , in all seriousness , that I meet its co - chair on Tuesday afternoon , immediately after the publication of the ballot result . I follow up in writing yesterday morning to reaffirm what I say in person , which be to express our willingness to meet immediately , without precondition , to avert this strike action . that offer remain , and I be very happy to meet they on that basis . my wife have a long - term chronic health condition ; she have have to have two major lifesaving surgery , and have have countless stay in hospital . we have see the fantastic work that many doctor and consultant do , but we have also see the impact it have when there be cancellation and delay , or when no doctor be available . many people will have be flabbergast by the sheer scale of the pay rise that be award in the first place , without anything in return to deliver the NHS reform that the Government seek . those people will now be absolutely outraged that the bma be go on strike after have a near 30 % pay increase . I plead with the Secretary of State to hold the line in these negotiation , and to take away the cross - party support he have in hold the line against the BMA on this issue . we will not be reopen this year ' s pay award because we simply can not afford to , and it would not be fair on other in the NHS workforce , regardless . I honestly do not regret the deal that we strike last year , without which we would not have make the progress that we have on NHS waiting list , which be now at their low level in two year . we have make that considerable progress by work together . I do not think that the staff themselves be the drain on productivity ; instead , the obstacle we face be the system and pathway in which staff work and the condition in the NHS — we be in real agreement on those thing . I urge the BMA to keep all that under consideration before its next public intervention , which I hope will be to accept the offer to get around the table to avert the strike action that I think the whole House agree be unnecessary , unreasonable and unfair . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement , which be deliver with the humility and pragmatism that be his usual professional style . after a 28 . 9 % pay rise thank to this Labour Government , do the Secretary of State agree that the public be not only dismay by the action of the BMA , but distraught and that , once again , it will be the patient who will suffer the most by this action , which be so unnecessary at this particular moment ? I entirely agree with my hon . friend . it will be patient who suffer the most . I also urge the BMA to consider the impact on its whole membership , because it be other staff who be leave pick up the piece , and other staff who be tired — literally tired — of work in an nhs that be far from its good . to resident doctor in particular , I say that the cost of this will also be bear by they . there be choice and trade - off in politic , especially when resource be tight . we can and we will act to deal with specialty bottleneck . we can and we will act to tackle doctor unemployment , but our ability to do so be undermine , if not diminish , if we be instead pay the cost of this unnecessary , unreasonable and unfair strike action . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement today and fully support the line of action that he have take . indication that the majority of doctor in the bma do not vote to strike make this strike action even more difficult to understand . the Secretary of State be clearly try to find a way forward . the way to do that be through find solution . review condition of work , such as those that see junior doctor work 84 hour within the space of a week , would be helpful . perhaps this action be not only about pay , but about the expectation of these young people who have life and death in their hand for 13 hour for six out of seven day a week . the hon . Gentleman make an entirely reasonable point . pay be important — people have to be able to pay their bill and lead a good life — but so too be their working condition . I be absolutely determined to work with resident doctor to make progress not just on pay , which we have already do , but on the condition in which they be work . give where we be with both of those thing — the improvement on pay and the willingness to work together to improve condition — they be not ground for strike action . I congratulate my right hon . friend on show great leadership when he come into office to get those doctor back to work and end the strike . the result of that have be fall waiting time and waiting list , and I have see the benefit of that for my constituent in Shipley ; they be not have to wait for operation and diagnostic test in the NHS . do he agree that this be no time for strike action , and that , should the bma and the resident doctor go ahead with this strike , this will adversely affect patient and waiting time ? I entirely agree with my hon . friend . look back at all the contribution this morning , I have be strike by the fact that , quite extraordinarily , the entire House , on both side of the Chamber , have speak with one voice . there have be total unanimity across this House during these exchange that the propose strike be unreasonable , unnecessary and unfair . for the avoidance of doubt , let I tell the BMA and the resident doctor committee that this House have speak with one voice to say : abandon this rush to strike , get around the table and work with we to rebuild resident doctor ' work condition and to continue rebuild our national health service . I thank the House for its support . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement today . Electricity Market Review with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I shall make a statement about the review of electricity market arrangement . the central challenge that we face be the urgent need to get off expensive , insecure fossil fuel and to deliver an energy system that meet at least double the level of current electricity demand by 2050 . in do so , we need to design the electricity network to ensure that infrastructure be build in the right place , so that we can effectively provide power where it be require . as a result of previous failure to do so , power now go to waste , cost consumer in high bill . that be one reason why reform be need . the task of this review be to help deliver a fair , affordable , secure , and efficient clean power system . the key question have be whether to proceed with zonal pricing or a reform national system . under zonal pricing , we would split the country into different zone rely on price differential to guide investment decision . under a reform national price system , we would rely on more deliberate strategic co - ordination in advance of investment — plan our network and area of intended generation more closely and then deliver . I have apply three test to this choice in the time since the Government take office : first , what be the fair approach for family and business , both now and in the long term ; secondly , which reform can deliver energy security and will well protect consumer and ensure bill saving as soon as possible ; and , thirdly , what will do most to ensure the investment , job , and growth that we need across the economy ? on the basis of these test , I have conclude that the right approach be reform national pricing . let I set out why . on the fairness test , under reform national pricing , there would be one national wholesale price , as now . as I have say , under zonal pricing there would be different wholesale price in different zone . low price will tend to occur in zone with more renewable energy and a small population , and high price in those with less power and more people . this would be a significant departure from the current system , which , while it have some difference in network cost , mean that wherever a person live , they pay the same wholesale price for each unit of electricity . the challenge will be obvious to the House . People and business could find themselves disadvantage through no fault of their own and many would see that as unfair . such a postcode lottery be , in my view , difficult to defend . the Government have consider whether it would be possible to mitigate these effect under zonal pricing . we have conclude that , while it might , it would be a very complex and uncertain process . and it would be even more challenging to do so for large business , give the way that they purchase electricity . therefore , firm in high price zone , such as the midland , Wales , and the south of England , would therefore face damage to their competitiveness . that be why we have see so many business group express such concern about zonal pricing . indeed , today ' s decision have already be welcome by UK Steel , make UK , the british chamber of commerce , Ceramics UK and other . the next test that I apply be which system can good help deliver energy security , protect consumer and ease the cost of live crisis as soon as possible . long - term reform be essential to cut cost and save money for consumer compare with the status quo , but there be a key question as to what happen in the meantime . the clear advice of my Department be that move towards zonal pricing would take around seven year to complete in full — assume no delay . over that seven - year period , the cost of finance essential investment in our energy system would be likely to rise to accommodate investor uncertainty , at a moment when we urgently need to replace retire asset and build a clean energy system to boost our energy security . this risk premium would be pay for by consumer in high bill in the come year . there be also a danger that it would leave we stick on fossil fuel for long by deter investor from bring forward the investment that we need for our energy security . by contrast , reform national pricing could be deliver more quickly and at low risk . indeed , some element of a reform national pricing system be already under way , include build network infrastructure , and we intend to proceed with other measure , such as reform of transmission charge , as soon as possible in this Parliament . have study this in detail over month , I see real risk that zonal pricing would deter the investment we need and that bill would rise in the transitional period . the third test be the investment and growth we need as a country . many business make decision to invest base on the energy cost that they face . the industrial strategy take a crucial step forward in lower the cost face by business , and clean power will help get we off the fossil fuel rollercoaster , which have so damage our country ' s business . we know that the big enemy of business investment be uncertainty , and the risk of zonal pricing be that it would create very significant uncertainty . imagine a business seek to invest not know for a number of year what zone it would be in and what price it would pay . this would harm investment not just in the energy sector but well beyond it , and it would inevitably risk reduce investment in our country precisely when we need it and undermine the ten of thousand of good job in constituency across the country that our clean energy mission will support . on the basis of those three test , I believe that the good choice be to proceed with reform national pricing . the key element will include : effective planning through the strategic spatial energy plan to be publish next year ; national pricing reform , such as make transmission charge more effective and predictable and take relevant power through Parliament to do so ; and make change work with the National Energy System Operator and Ofgem to improve the operation of flexibility and the balancing of market . under reform national pricing , we will build the transmission network we need to the benefit of all consumer , and we will be more directive and co - ordinated in how we plan our energy system . each upgrade that we deliver will reduce constraint cost and ensure that consumer benefit from clean power . my Department will set out a reform national pricing delivery plan later this year . take together , I believe that these step can help to deliver a more affordable , fair , secure and efficient energy system and will address the problem that the REMA process set out to solve without the unacceptable risk I have outline . these step build on what we have do over the past year to turbocharge our drive to home - grow clean power . we have consent three time more solar in 12 month than in the previous 14 year . we have lift the onshore wind ban and consent enough offshore wind to power the equivalent of 2 million home . we have back the big expansion of new nuclear in half a century . we be kick - start new industry in carbon capture and hydrogen . we be give nearly 3 million extra family £ 150 off their energy bill next winter and upgrade up to 5 million home to help cut bill . every energy decision that this Government make be in pursuit of protect the british people from fossil fuel market control by petrostate and dictator by deliver clean , home - grow power that we control . it be in that spirit that we have choose reform national pricing . we be do everything we can to ensure energy security , protect consumer and get bill down , and to ensure that business can invest for the future . this be underpin by a commitment to fairness across the country . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of his statement . I know that this have be a difficult decision for he . he tell everyone that his flagship mission be to commission more renewable power than ever before by 2030 — more wind than ever before and fast than ever before in a market that be already face supply - chain challenge and soar cost . I say at the time that it be completely unfeasible but that if he be go to do it he should take every opportunity to minimise the grid infrastructure that need to be build and the cost of his plan . on the other hand , I know that he will have have wind developer tell he that if he take those decision and make those choice , they will not be bid into his auction in the next couple of year — the auction he need they to bid into so that he can meet his self - impose target — because they want to protect their return . when face with a choice between protect the profit of wind developer and cut bill for the british people , the Secretary of State have choose the wind developer , who know that they have he over a barrel . in set himself an unachievable 2030 target that be base on ideology and ideology alone , he be tell those wind developer that he have to buy whatever they be sell , no matter the price . a little over a year ago , the Secretary of State tell the country that bill would come down by up to £ 300 , but his statement today show that when push come to shove he will choose high bill for the british people to fund profit for renewable energy company . worse still , what he do not mention be that today ' s announcement mean high bill to pay wind farm billion in constraint payment not to produce energy but simply to switch off . I have warn the Secretary of State repeatedly about the risk of build more wind before grid , and I ask he to continue my work on what a full system cost of energy would look like , which include the cost of back - up and constraint payment . but he do not listen . he axe that work because he do not want to know what those cost be . instead , last year he sign we up to the most expensive wind price in a decade , at about £ 86 per megawatt - hour . that be almost 15 % high than the average cost of electricity for the last year , which have be about £ 74 per megawatt - hour . this year ' s price will probably be the same , if not high , and he want to extend those contract to 20 year . he have not explain how lock we into much high price for long will bring down bill — but low bill be what he have promise the british public . there be more . the Secretary of State ' s plan require more grid to be build fast than before — that mean £ 74 on to household bill . his plan mean that constraint payment for wind farm to switch off will rise to £ 8 billion — that mean £ 100 on to bill . now we read that we will be pay solar farm to switch off when it be sunny too , and the Office for Budget Responsibility say that green levy will rise by £ 5 billion . People may have notice that the Secretary of State use to talk a lot about cheap energy but now talk about less volatile price . what his Back Benchers need to realise be that most people would not swap a 4 % variable rate mortgage for an 8 % fix one . what they care about be the price of their bill , and they want cheap price . if he be truly interested in bring down bill , he would not have scrap the analysis that I start last year to find out the true cost of a system dominate by wind and solar . I have now read — twice in one week — that Downing Street be start to pressure the Secretary of State about when his plan might actually bring down bill . all I can say be : I share the feeling ! before repeat all the empty promise about cut bill by £ 300 , Downing Street might have want to ask where his evidence be , but I will ask he now . will he reinstate that cost of energy work so that we can clearly see the difference between the system ? will he set out a road map to show exactly how he will lower bill ? will he confirm that he will not sign up to price in this year ' s wind auction that be high than the current average cost of electricity ? can he also confirm whether he see a full cost - benefit analysis of the choice in front of he today , and do he share the view of Ofgem and NESO ? I will leave the Secretary of State with two quote . the chief executive of Octopus Energy — one of the country ' s big advocate of renewable — have say that the Secretary of State ' s plan mean " soar cost , lock in for year to come , and more on the way … and the more we build , the bad it get , for year . " he also say , " it ' s brutal for family and cripple for growth . " I think the Secretary of State say in his statement that the big problem for business be uncertainty , but it be not ; it be high energy cost . the second quote — perhaps the most revealing — come from one of his close adviser , his chief energy system adviser , who say , " if we procure lot and lot of renewable generation and then we do not build the grid that allow it to get to market , we will be waste lot and lot of money . " I could not have put it well myself . this be the first time I be at the Dispatch Box opposite the shadow Secretary of State ; I congratulate she on her new baby boy and welcome she back to the House of Commons . I know from my own personal experience that cry at night be challenging , but who be surprised , give the state of the conservative party ? I think the shadow Secretary of State and I have a number of difference . the fundamental difference be this : she want to gamble in the fossil fuel casino — she want to gamble on fossil fuel price . that be what the Conservatives do when they be in office , and it lead to the bad cost of live crisis in generation . [ interruption . ] the shadow Secretary of State say from a sedentary position that it be not true . it absolutely be true , and I think she need to get out there more and hear what people have to say to she . it ruin family finance , it ruin business finance and it ruin the public finance . and what do they do ? do the Conservatives come along , after their bad election defeat in 200 year , and think , " well , maybe we get it a bit wrong . maybe we should think again " ? no , they double down on a fail strategy . that be the first point . the second point be this . the shadow Secretary of State say that we have a problem of constraint cost — that it be really a problem that we do not have the infrastructure that the country need . she be absolutely right , but who be in charge for 14 year ? Don ' t just take my word for it , by the way . I notice that her colleague the shadow Energy Minister , the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) , be not in his place , but he say that it be absurd that , after 14 year of Conservative Government , we be now in a situation where it be more difficult to build critical national infrastructure than it be before they come into power and that it cost more . that be what we have get : the grid system be massively back up , the planning system be in disrepute , and the network and transmission infrastructure be not build . the third point be that the shadow Secretary of State now say , " okay , well let ' s forget about the past . ignore my record — airbrush it out . let ' s build the grid . " too right we should build the grid , but she be oppose new clean energy infrastructure all around the country . she be go around say , " oh , it ' s terrible . we shouldn ' t be have this happen . " so at the level of strategy and what be the right thing for the country , at the level of her record and why we be in this position , and at the level of what she be do now , I be afraid she be in the wrong place . now , what be we do ? we be actually change all of this . in the period that the shadow Secretary of State have be away , we have see a whole set of decision make that the Conservatives talk about but never deliver . on nuclear power , they talk a lot about Sizewell and small modular reactor and all that , but they do not actually deliver it . we be — with over £ 40 billion of private investment in clean power unblocked and a record - break renewable auction . by the way , the shadow Secretary of State say that I be somehow on the side of the wind developer . no , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I be on the side of UK Steel , make UK , the British Chambers of Commerce , Ceramics UK and business across the country who have say that this be the right decision for the country . [ interruption . ] she mention bill . let I address that directly . my strategy and my belief be that a clean power system can bring down bill for good , because that be that way that we lower wholesale price and get off the rollercoaster . home - grow clean power be the answer for Britain , and I suggest that , now she be back in her post , she do some hard thinking about the past , about strategy and about what be right for Britain . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I be sure the Secretary of State will not be surprised to hear I say that I very much welcome what he have announce . he set out three priority : fairness , low bill — include and especially in industry and business , where my Committee hear as recently as yesterday that energy bill be cause real concern and something of a crisis in certain industry — and attract investment , not least ahead of auction round 7 . I be sadden that the shadow Secretary of State be so critical of wind generation . I have her letter of 12 March 2024 to my predecessor as the Chair of the Select Committee set out her term of reference for the consultation that the Secretary of State have respond to . she place great emphasis on the importance of invest in renewable , so it be a great shame to see her change of heart . under the reform national system , do the Secretary of State envisage increase opportunity to use demand flexibility , and to use it as fast as possible , as a key way of bring down energy cost for domestic and industrial consumer ? my hon . friend speak with great expertise on these matter . I will come to his question , but let I say first that I like to talk about issue on which both party have be enthusiastic . we have the second large offshore wind generation in the world . it be start when I be Secretary of State with Gordon Brown as Prime Minister , and it be continue under the last government . it be extraordinary that the shadow Secretary of State be now abandon that and say that offshore wind be somehow the problem . it be not the problem ; it be the solution . my hon . friend be right about consumer - lead flexibility . the key point about that be that it be voluntary , and it be a way for consumer to save money . the shadow Secretary of State mention Octopus Energy , which be one of the pioneer of this . we be in the foothill of what we can achieve here , whereby consumer be empower , through thing like battery , solar panel , heat pump and smart meter , to control when they use energy much more easily , to their benefit and the benefit of the system . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Secretary of State for share his statement in advance . he be right : make the UK a clean energy superpower be the smart and most strategic way to free ourselves from our dependence on expensive , volatile fossil fuel . however , as we have hear , accelerate the transition to renewable alone be not enough . the Government have to ensure that the clean power mission ultimately bring down customer ’ bill and create a fair system for household and business . energy bill in the UK be among the high in Europe . our high cost exacerbate cost of living pressure and increase fuel poverty . they also undermine our international competitiveness for industrial and commercial consumer and risk drive some business overseas . the Liberal Democrats have long call for electricity price to be decouple from the wholesale price of gas so that family in the UK be not leave pay over the odd for clean , british - generate electricity just because of volatile global gas price . we will be look closely at the detail of the Government ' s plan follow the review of electricity market arrangement . the Secretary of State outline his three test . to ensure that british consumer be not expose to an unknown level of risk , will he publish his cost - benefit analysis and set out what impact the change will have on customer ’ bill ? we will also be look keenly for the much - need joined - up approach between planning for renewable energy infrastructure through the strategic spatial energy plan , and the land use framework and local area energy plan , which , worryingly , be a bit out of sync . renewable energy can be the cheap , most secure source of power , but for many people , see — and feel it in their pocket — be believe , and under the current system , many be struggle to see it . alongside the change announce today , I hope the Secretary of State will consider other liberal Democrat proposal , just as they do when put into practice our proposal for rooftop solar on all roof . we would like to see free insulation and heat pump for people on low income and the introduction of a social tariff for energy to protect the most vulnerable . I thank the hon . Lady for her question . there be not necessarily a monopoly on good idea . on the whole idea of new build housing have rooftop solar instal as standard , the last Labour Government be go to do it in 2016 , but it get abolish by the previous Government . it be an absolute no brainer . it actually unite people whether they like solar on land or not , so it be really good that we be do that . on decouple , absolutely — that be part of what clean power 2030 will do . gas will set the price much less often than it do at the moment , and we will be move to contract for difference rather than renewable obligation , which mean that the reduction in price will feed through to consumer . that be key . we will publish the cost - benefit analysis later in the year , as our document publish today state . the hon . Lady be right about the SSEP , which , to be fair , be start under the previous Government and will be publish next year . that will be a crucial way in which we guide where the new infrastructure be build , precisely to get over the problem of the disconnect between the generation we need and the network infrastructure . as a member of the Select Committee , I enjoy that I can give a wry smile every single week when academic , non - governmental organisation , consumer group and industry say they have so much delay and faffe from the conservative party and now we be get on and deliver . on zonal pricing , it be fantastic to see that we be give some certainty to the market , and I thank the Secretary of State in particular for set out that we be go to start tackle excessive transmission charge . in Northamptonshire , Green Hill Solar be bring forward a massive opportunity for clean power right on my doorstep . do the Secretary of State agree that that type of investment , and the certainty that the statement bring , will create quality technical job locally in Northampton and reduce people ' s energy bill ? on my hon . friend ' s point about certainty , which be really important , global inflation have affect the offshore wind sector . I take it from the comment by the shadow Secretary of State that we should just say , " well , let ' s not bother with offshore wind , then . let ' s just stick to gas . " we just have a difference of view . I think that would be such a mistake . it would leave we so exposed , and we know what happen in the past . on my hon . friend ' s point about job , this be a massive opportunity . I have a chance recently to visit the site of the new Rampion 2 wind farm off the english coast . this be go to create thousand of job , as well as job in the supply chain . when I talk to hon . member across the House , I be strike by how many place contribute to the supply chain , and we want more of that . we want those job make in Britain . that be the point about GB Energy , the National Wealth Fund and the clean industry bonus , which will be part of auction round 7 . under the current system , the most expensive generator set the clearing price for electricity , push up price for consumer and business . can the Secretary of State explain how the reform that he be set out today change that by move to a pay - as - bid system and provide more affordable energy for consumer and business ? the hon . Gentleman ask a bang - on question , and that be why I hope he will support clean power 2030 . the key thing be that if we can get these renewable on to the system , gas will set the price much less often . as this be a CFD rather than a renewable obligation , the reduction in price feed through to the consumer . this will have a genuinely transformative effect on the so - call decouple that he and the liberal Democrat spokesperson have raise . I congratulate my right hon . friend on this package of measure , which will reduce energy cost . the system leave by the Conservatives need to tackle three thing : transmission charge , constraint payment and marginal cost pricing , by which the price of gas drive the cost of the whole system . I therefore welcome the strategic special energy plan , which will see asset build close to their user and low transmission charge , which comprise more than 20 % of the cost of power . I welcome the new transmission line and storage facility , which will reduce constraint payment . these be game changer , but 40 % of the cost of power still come from the marginal cost of gas . can my right hon . friend elaborate on what he say in response to the hon . member for North West Norfolk ( James Wild ) and tell we whether there be any plan to decouple the wholesale price of gas from the system ? that be the real game changer . I will come to my hon . friend ' s early point in a minute , but his last point be absolutely crucial . the last government look at this and find it difficult to find a mechanism to do it within the system . a key thing that clean power will do be that gas will set the price much less of the time , and with ROs be phase out and CfDs come in , that will have a dramatic effect . at the moment , the gas price cover something like more than half the generation , and that will fall to a much low figure — I can give my hon . friend the actual figure . my hon . friend ' s first point about constraint payment be worth dwell on . if we be worried about constraint payment because the network be not there , we be right to be worried . but if that be our view , we should support the building of the network infrastructure across the country . we can not have it both way . we can not say that we be worried about constraint payment and the cost on consumer but that we can not have the new infrastructure build . that be an issue and it be a choice — I would not call it a dilemma , exactly — that every Member across the House have to make . UK household and business pay almost the high energy cost compare with other european country . as have already be say many time , although it be worth repeat , that be because the cost of electricity be couple to the cost of gas . I absolutely share the Secretary of State ' s ambition to rapidly reduce our reliance on gas . long , medium and short - duration storage will play a vital role in bridge the intermittency of renewable . what more can the Government do to rapidly increase support for these emerge technology ? LDES , as it be know to the super - nerd — long - duration energy storage — be really important , as indeed be battery . we now have a cap and floor mechanism for LDES . Ofgem , along with NESO , be look at the application that have be make , and that will now be drive forward . that be really important . what I always say to people be that we need all the element of the system . we need nuclear — in my view — we need renewable , we need battery storage , and we also need LDES . all of they can contribute to a clean power system . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement . it be clear that zonal pricing would not only waste valuable time in the race to reduce our reliance on costly fossil fuel ; it would see my constituent in Ealing Southall , many of whom be on very low income , and indeed family across London pay more for their bill . do he agree that this Labour Government ' s plan to invest in clean , cheap , renewable energy and to reform energy pricing for the whole country as one be a fair and more effective way of reduce bill for everyone ? I thank my hon . friend for that really important question ; she make two point that be critical . one be the time it would take to get to a zonal pricing system , and the second be the arbitrary nature of who would benefit and how , and the cost differential . I think we can see that there would be a great sense of unfairness about that . she be also absolutely right that the choice be not reform or no reform ; the choice be : what kind of reform ? that be what reform national pricing be all about . above all — my hon . friend the Member for Northampton South ( Mike Reader ) refer to this — this be about get on with it . it might be lose in the mist of time , but the conservative use to have a target for clean power . it be for 95 % clean power by 2030 , but they never really talk about it much , and then they sort of abandon it quietly . the truth be that they use to understand this . we have get to build the infrastructure and the renewable power generation . the strategic spatial energy plan must ensure that new large energy project in Wales work with and not against community . there must also be a role for local small - scale project , as these can deliver the large amount of clean energy we need , with far less impact on our community and the national grid . can the Secretary of State say how the upcoming SSEP will put the need of community at its heart , and how it will support the expansion of small - scale energy project ? the hon . Lady make a really important point , if I may say so , about the SSEP and , more broadly , about the role of community energy and , for example , rooftop solar . even before we introduce the future home standard , we be see an increase in the number of new home with solar panel on their roof . we have get community energy — which be much more successful in place such as Germany and Denmark — which GB Energy will be power forward . also , I be really interested in how we make it more worthwhile for individual householder to install solar panel . it be right for they and it be a way to cut bill . that be what be really exciting about it . we definitely see small - scale and community energy not just as part of our planning for the future , but as something we want to drive forward . I warmly welcome my right hon . friend ' s decision today . zonal pricing sound like a good idea , but the reality be that the uncertainty about future arrangement be risk investment and would not lead to job in green manufacturing in my constituency of Edinburgh North and Leith , or indeed across Scotland . to meet the need of consumer and business , we need a more flexible energy network , so can he set out in more detail how he envisage that happen ? I thank my hon . friend for that really important question . the impact on Scotland be an important dimension here , because Scotland have really exciting plan to drive forward renewable energy , particularly offshore wind . it can be a massive job creator for the future , and it be something we be really focused on . one other issue with zonal pricing be that I fear it would have have quite an adverse effect on the scottish green economy , which be a point powerfully make by lot of different stakeholder . I can definitely say to my hon . friend that we be 100 % committed . we think that Scotland have a rightful place as an energy capital and an energy powerhouse , and offshore wind be a crucial part of that . thank you for allow my question , Madam Deputy Speaker . I must apologise to the House and the Front Bench for be a little late . I appreciate the high - wire nature of the act that the Secretary of State and his ministerial team be try to deliver , but there be two litmus test in Scotland that be absolutely crucial . first , private investment be essential to make the journey to net zero happen . secondly , Scotland be such an energy - rich country , as he reference , and yet we be pay the high price for tariff and standing charge . will his statement make it easy for private investment to come in and deliver we towards that journey to net zero , and do he foresee low energy cost for consumer in Scotland ? the answer to both those question be yes . the first point the hon . member raise be important and go to the question ask by my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) , which be on the fear that lot of people have that it would dry up the renewable industry in Scotland if we go down the route of zonal pricing . that be why we have opt for the reform national pricing system that we have talk about . to elaborate on the second point , build this clean power system that can lower wholesale price , which be the absolute prize here , be the route to lower energy cost for people in Scotland and across the UK . last summer be the hot on record and this summer may be even hot still . the world face a climate crisis . to tackle that , we need to move fast to net zero , and Scotland ' s energy sector will be crucial in this country ' s achieve that . to do that , we need to encourage — not discourage — investment , and we can not waste any time . do the Secretary of State think the decision will help Scotland boost its energy sector and through that , this country ' s fight against climate change ? my hon . friend speak with great expertise and passion on these issue . on his first point , it be worth say something about this , and I hope to say more on it in the next week or so . the impact of climate change that we be see around the world be the new normal , I be afraid , but they be not normal in comparison with the past . we be see some horrifying scene around the world , and the warming of the planet make they much more likely to happen , so there be real urgency , and he be right to emphasise that . he be also absolutely right that Scotland will play a pivotal role for the UK in answer the question on energy security and tackle the climate crisis . I believe the announcement today will help in that endeavour . yesterday I host a roundtable of manufacturer in the rural part of my constituency . they welcome the Government ' s industrial strategy and particularly the measure on industrial energy price , but they raise concern about the grid connection in that part of my constituency . will the Government work with I to improve these grid connection , because the Teesside region have thousand of job in clean energy and green industry , and I want all my industry to benefit from that ? the Energy Minister have just volunteer , unprompte — which rarely happen in this House — to meet my hon . friend , so enthusiastic be he about discuss this issue . my hon . friend be right to raise the issue of grid connection . we inherit an absolutely break system that be massively oversubscribed , with a zombie queue , lengthen delay , and nothing happen , basically . that be why we have end the first come , first serve system and be do a much more intentional , plan system for the grid . that be good for connect renewable energy , but the other crucial thing be that by work out which energy project we need and which we do not , we free up the queue for industrial project . that be the key , and that be the work that NESO be currently embark upon . I hope that it will help business in his constituency and across the country to deal with the obvious and acknowledge frustration they have on grid connection . I thank the Secretary of State for opt for a reform system , which will avoid bill go up in my constituency and provide the certainty to drive investment in our energy system . do he agree that our clean power mission will be vital not only to generate low bill and well job for area such as mine , but to provide a future and opportunity for people grow up in the area , where a new Mona wind farm have just be approve ? my hon . friend put it so well . when I talk to young people who be think about the job they might do in the future , from nuclear to renewable to carbon capture , I be always strike that , across the board , they know these be the growth industry of the future . there be a huge opportunity for Britain , include for her constituent , and it be incredibly exciting what we can deliver . this be the new case for climate action : it be about energy security , low bill , job and growth , and do the right thing for future generation . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement and for his vision . on inherit zombie system from the previous Government , do he agree that it be remarkable that the Conservatives have show no contrition whatsoever about the dire state in which they leave our energy system ? that result in the bad cost of living crisis in memory , and family in Ilford South and across the country be still pay the price . my hon . friend put it incredibly well . the Conservatives have show no contrition or acknowledgment , and they have not learn any lesson — not a single one . they basically say , " we be right and the electorate be wrong . " I say to they gently — or not so gently — that that be a recipe for oblivion , frankly . it be time they take a long , hard look . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement . I want to put on the record my thank to the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) , for the extensive conversation that he have have with I and other Welsh Labour mp on our concern about zonal pricing , and that we feel it would fail the " fair and affordable " test that the Secretary of State have outline today , so I welcome this statement . now that we have have this announcement about reform national pricing , will he assure my constituent and business that they will see low consumer bill as a result ? that be the key : this decision provide the certainty require . it be the fair choice . it be the choice that will not lead to seven year of uncertainty , risk premium and high bill . it give we the platform to work with industry to get on and deliver . if I have one message for industry , it be that now be the time for they to step up and come forward with these project . we be break down all the barrier that they face , for example on planning , the grid and uncertainty . our absolute determination be to get on and deliver for my hon . friend ' s , constituent and people across the country . Energy Planning Energy Security and Net Zero Committee Select Committee statement we now come to the first of the Select Committee statement . the Chair of the Committee will speak for up to 10 minute , during which no intervention may be take . at the conclusion of his statement , I will call member to ask question on the subject of the statement — brief question , not speech . I emphasise that question should be direct to the Committee Chair , not to the Minister . Front Benchers may take part in questioning . it give I great pleasure to present our Committee ' s first report of this session , " gridlock or growth ? avoid energy planning chaos " . I think it follow on very nicely from the statement we have just hear from the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , especially give some of the question that follow . I thank my Committee colleague for their diligence and proactive engagement throughout the inquiry , which have enable we to produce a detailed report in a challenging timescale . the Secretary of State , in his statement just now , address some of the concern that we raise in our report about planning and the part it play in ensure that infrastructure be build , as he say , " in the right place , so that we can effectively provide power where it be require . " and at a cost that be affordable for domestic and business consumer . his focus on the serious problem of high energy price for business be very welcome . the Committee have take evidence on that , most recently yesterday when the Chemical Industries Association refer to a crisis in the UK ' s industry cause by uncompetitive energy price . in our report , we consider the role of the strategic spatial energy plan . the Secretary of State tell the House just now that it will be publish next year . again , we welcome that — it be recommendation in our report — but we want much great clarity on both how the clean power 2030 action plan and the SSEP relate to grid connection and the development consent process . we find evidence of significant confusion over the role that grid connection have in determine securing planning consent and , similarly , the role that have plan consent can play in secure a grid connection . I be pleased to hear the Secretary of State make his commitment to the publication of the SSEP , but I encourage he to do so soon rather than later . in the 1950 and 1960 , the country make substantial investment in a super grid , a secure and modern energy infrastructure design to meet the country ' s grow energy need . it be design to give we 30 year of resilience . in the 1980 , the grid be already come under strain and be in need of continued investment , so what do the Government do ? they privatise it . Sir Malcolm Rifkind provide the rationale . he say that the energy industry " should be able to make its own investment decision base on its investment need and on the resource that it can raise in order to fund that investment . " — [ Official Report , 13 December 1988 ; Vol . 143 , c . 790 . ] unshackle from the state , our energy infrastructure be expect to attract its own investment , but for our vital grid infrastructure the promise private funding just do not materialise . at the time , a rise star of the Labour party , the then shadow Energy Secretary — some people may have hear of he — Tony Blair , challenge the market - lead approach to energy infrastructure . he tell this House : " even when the industry be privately own abroad , in most country major strategic decision be take by government , not company . " — [ Official Report , 12 December 1988 ; Vol . 143 , c . 680 . ] he go on to say : " all those unresolved contradiction underline the stupidity , indeed the impossibility , of an energy policy determine by the interest of the private sector . the very consideration most critical to secure the long - term future electrical supply be the very one least suit to the inevitable short - term demand of the market . " — [ Official Report , 12 December 1988 ; Vol . 143 , c . 687 . ] the then future Prime Minister ' s prediction be sadly all too accurate . today , whether we pursue renewable , nuclear or internationally trade gas , the reality remain the same : we urgently require overdue upgrade to our age energy network . the strategic direction of this Government be clear : to build and deliver the energy infrastructure that will cut carbon emission , secure our energy supply in the face of serious and grow international threat , and reduce energy cost for household and business over the long term . if we get that right , the UK have the opportunity to become a global leader not only in develop and deploy low - carbon infrastructure , but in how we manage the transition itself . energy security be the top priority for this Government , as it be for my Committee , of course . we want Britain to stand on its own two foot , produce energy on our land , on our shore and in our sea , and by our own worker , give we the opportunity to seize back control of household bill . political consent and public support for the energy transition be essential , because Britain ' s national security depend on it . the Government have set ambitious target for the UK ' s transition to clean energy , underpin by both international commitment and domestic legal obligation , but real progress will depend not on high - level debate about ideology or party politic , but on whether we can construct the low - carbon generation and transmission infrastructure need to meet those goal in practice . that be where the policy statement come in . they provide essential planning guidance for local and national authority on how to evaluate propose energy infrastructure , and how such proposal interact with wide strategy and land use plan . we call our report " gridlock or growth " because the choice be stark . if we get the transition right , the UK can benefit from clean , cheap renewable energy , cut bill , boost business and support the growth need to fund well healthcare , education and pension . but the current system for prioritise grid connection have become severely congested . too many speculative project with little chance of be build be clog up the queue , delay or block more viable one . the system have effectively seize up . one of our clear finding be the need for common - sense reform . the Government be right to propose move away from a purely market - drive system , because that system , leave unchecked , have lead directly to the current gridlock . planning authority can not remain blind to a project ' s chance of secure a grid connection . a project ' s prospect of grid connection should become a " material consideration " in the consent process . it be sensible at this time to have a guide hand prioritise those project most likely to deliver the energy generation we need , and to build the necessary transmission infrastructure to get that energy to business and household across the country . of course , none of that will work without proper planning consent . that , in turn , depend on meaningful engagement between developer and community ; engagement that happen early and be focus on resolve issue before they become entrenched . that be a key part of how we avoid the lengthy and expensive legal challenge that have hold the british energy sector back . too often , new solar or wind farm , and the pylon need to carry energy to home and business , become flashpoint of local opposition . community be frequently consult too late to shape the outcome , or not give real insight into the trade - off involve . we hear that when people be tell that underground or offshore option may cost more and lead to high bill , they be often more open to overland option . similarly , the Committee recommend that nature - positive infrastructure project can engage and well galvanise public consent for development , and that there should be a presumption against build onshore wind infrastructure on deep peat . the Committee recommend that the National Energy System Operator should use strategic planning to foster early , deep community engagement well before the formal consent stage , and that the Government require developer to engage early and meaningfully with local community to identify potential impact , explore mitigation option and commit to deliver they . we also hear that a significant proportion of propose mitigation , despite have funding allocate , be never actually deliver . the failure of the system to enforce the measure erode public trust in the process . the result of poor consultation be that nobody be satisfied : community feel ignore , developer face avoidable delay and legal cost , planner and court be burden unnecessarily , and confidence in the system be undermine . the principle be simple : put the right project in place through direction from the centre ; secure consent and mitigation by build trust in the system , early engagement and proper enforcement ; and build the infrastructure . the clean power plan and — soon please — the SSEP set the priority . we have the investment and innovation potential support by the industrial strategy . low bill , great security and sustainability of energy supply be there for the taking . let we take they and go from current gridlock to growth . I commend this statement to the House . we have just hear how important it be that we get community support for infrastructure . the Committee support the presumption of consent for low - carbon infrastructure with critical national priority status . however , the Committee set out in the report serious concern about the potential impact on biodiversity and the lack of delivery on promise ecological mitigation . do the hon . Gentleman agree that it be essential for Parliament to hold the Government to account on ensure that the energy transition be deliver in a genuinely nature - positive way ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question and for her service on the Committee — her contribution be always valuable in our discussion and in the question we put to our witness . she rightly raise nature mitigation , which we look at in our inquiry . as I mention in my statement , we hear that all too often developer do not implement the mitigation that they be require to make . it be very important — this be one of our recommendation to Government , as she imply — to ensure that developer carry out their obligation and implement the improvement that she refer to . I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for lead we through the report . it be right that sometimes Select Committees pose more of a challenge to Government . in this case , I think it be right to call out that , while the Department be do great thing and work at pace , we need to ensure that everything be join up and co - ordinate . the national policy statement , the land - use framework , the new SSEP , strategy and plan need to be join up to ensure that nature - positive and nature - base solution and environmental protection be also join up . do the Chair agree with I that the Department need to worker hard to ensure that , while we deliver at pace , everything give one coherent message to the market ? I be also very grateful to my hon . friend for his contribution . he join the Committee recently and have grab the agenda with both hand , as one of our most assiduous attender . I think he and the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) match each other on attendance , actually — I do not want to give the wrong impression . he be correct : we need the Government to engage with our recommendation on enforcement of nature - positive solution . he give I an opportunity to reiterate that there be confusion on whether the need for plan consent precede grid connection or the other way around . I think we could do with the Government clear up some of those thing . we be all in favour of green energy in Lincolnshire , and we do our bit with massive wind turbine in the North sea , but will the Committee do a more in - depth report about the sheer concentration of solar farm in Lincolnshire , with 10 , 000 acre around the town of Gainsborough ? I know that the grid connection be important , but surely the Committee could play a useful role in say that all part of the country should do their bit . we can not simply take 10 , 000 acre out of good agricultural production in one small part of England . that be something that we have look at as part of this inquiry and more widely . it be really important that those who host major energy infrastructure be take on board . we make recommendation about early engagement , and about listen to rather than ignore what local community say about the potential for re - route site or route for pylon . the right hon . Gentleman talk about solar farm , but be there other option ? there be good evidence that when engagement be do in the correct way , compromise be often possible . although not everybody will ever be happy in consultation , there be definitely well way for these thing to be do . I commend the Committee and my hon . friend for their work . the report echo what National Grid tell I when I visit its operation in Hams Hall in my constituency . do he agree that the Government ' s work on the Planning and Infrastructure Bill have pave the way for infrastructure project to be deliver more quickly , and that business such as Jaguar Land Rover , whose battery assembly plant be in Hams Hall , will welcome his Committee ' s work and the Government ' s effort on deliver vital infrastructure ? my hon . friend make an excellent point . there be a good crossover between the Planning and Infrastructure Bill go through Parliament and the amendment make to the national policy statement . our recommendation pick up some of the linkage between the two , as she suggest . the key point be how we speed up the process so that we can get to my final point , which be to get on and build the infrastructure , as she say . the report highlight an ambiguity about what be say centrally by the Government and what be expect from industry . separately from this report , the Select Committee have hear evidence on tidal range power generation from the Severn and , during visit , about innovative approach . do the Chair of the Select Committee share my concern that the confusion cause by that ambiguity could lead to the UK miss out on opportunity to be a world leader in alternative type of generation , and do he agree the situation must be clarify ? I be also grateful to the hon . Lady for her contribution since the start of the Committee — she be another assiduous attender . she make absolutely the right point . where we have identify area of ambiguity — there be many around grid connection and planning , which I have touch on before — the Government need to clear they up , so that decision can be make in a timely fashion , developer can have the confidence and certainty that they need , and we can get on with the process of improve the infrastructure , the grid capacity connection and the supply of cheap clean energy . I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for his incredibly thorough and interesting report , which I look forward to read . will he comment on an amendment that I table to the Planning and Infrastructure Bill ? it be often say that Suffolk Coastal may be host up to 20 % of the UK ' s future energy or transport that future energy . we have four nationally significant infrastructure project within a five - mile radius , and there have be no co - ordination between the energy developer for the planning and development of those project . my amendment would have legally require such co - ordination when energy developer bring forward their plan , so that we can manage mitigation , look at the issue , and well plan and develop out when large NSIPs be be develop . it be important that we have proper co - ordination between developer and different project , which we also touch on in our report . the national policy statement be the strategically important element of planning , so it be very much relevant to my hon . friend ' s point . I think she will find that some of the comment and evidence that we hear in our inquiry lend themselves to the point she just make . there be plan for major solar farm , substation and other infrastructure in North West Norfolk and across the county , take high - quality agricultural land out of use . the cumulative impact of that be be ignore . I welcome the Committee ' s recommendation on solar . do the hon . Gentleman agree that the planning system should ensure that energy infrastructure be build on develop land , brownfield land and industrial land , not on good - quality agricultural land ? why do he think that the Government have so far fail to prioritise energy security in the national policy statement ? I think most of that question be probably well answer by Ministers , but as to what we find in our evidence , it be very much the case that we have to work with local community to address their concern about have to host significant amount of infrastructure , as in the hon . Gentleman ' s community . the point about put solar or wind farm on brownfield land be a good one . I do not think anybody be against that , and I think that that be part of what the Government intend . the point be that there be occasion when that be not possible , but the key be to engage with people and take they with we by demonstrate the case for where infrastructure must go . child ' s Social Care Education Committee Select Committee statement we come now to the second Select Committee statement . Helen Hayes will speak for up to 10 minute , during which time no intervention may be take . at the conclusion of her statement , I will call member to ask question on the subject of the statement . there should be brief question , not full speech . I emphasise that question should be direct to the Select Committee Chair , not the relevant Minister . front Benchers may take part in questioning . I be grateful to the Backbench Business Committee for allocate time for this statement . today I speak on behalf of the Education Committee and , more importantly , the thousand of child across England whose life be profoundly shape by our child ' s social care system . I put on record my thank to the Committee Clerks and specialist , who have support this inquiry , as well as to Georgia , Jake , Lamar and Louise , the four young adult with recent experience of the care system who come to give oral evidence to the Committee in person . I know that it be not easy to speak about the challenge that they have face , include experience that no child should ever have to endure , but by do so they have help to shape our report and ensure that young people have be at the centre of our thinking . we be very grateful . child ' s social care provide essential support to some of our most vulnerable young people — child who have face trauma , neglect , abuse , bereavement or instability . they need not only protection but love , stability and the opportunity to thrive . in December 2023 , our predecessor Committee launch an inquiry into the state of child ' s social care . follow the general election , my Committee resolve to continue that critical work . our inquiry build on substantial evidence , include the independent review of child ' s social care , publish in 2022 , which conclude that the system be fail to meet child ' s need . the evidence we have receive from care - experienced young people , social worker , local authority , charity and academic confirm that many of these challenge persist . the system be under significant strain . rise need , stretch budget and workforce shortage be compromise the ability to put child genuinely at the heart of the system . we have see a significant shift in the profile of spending on child ' s social care , from spend on early help service , which have fall 31 % in real term over the last decade , to spend on costly crisis intervention , which have rocket . this imbalance be unsustainable . the 2022 independent review propose a £ 2 . 6 billion uplift in child ' s social care spending between 2023 and 2027 , with £ 1 billion annually ringfence for family help service , to shift focus toward early intervention . that recommendation have not be fully implement . there have be rise need for child ' s social care over the past decade , with the number of look - after child stand at almost 84 , 000 in 2024 — an increase of over 20 % since 2014 . these pressure reflect broad social and economic challenge . poverty be a key driver of social care involvement , and the forthcoming child poverty strategy must be ambitious , aim to significantly reduce the number of child grow up in financial hardship . we urge the Government to allocate a substantial portion of new funding from the spending review to restore early intervention service to 2010 level in real term . prevention be not only the right thing to do by child and their family ; it be also more cost - effective . the shortage of appropriate placement for look - after child be a critical issue . in 2024 , 45 % of look - after child be place outside their local authority , and 22 % be place more than 20 mile from home , disrupt education and relationship and exacerbate trauma . we call on the Department for Education to publish a national sufficiency strategy for child ' s social care , require every local authority to develop plan to reduce out - of - area placement and demonstrate how they be implement good practice . not every local authority send child far away from home , and we believe more can be do to reduce this harmful practice . the child ' s social care market be fail to deliver for child and local authority . the excessive profit of some provider be unacceptable , and report of financial instability among some large operator be deeply concern . the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill include provision to reform this market , which we welcome . however , these measure must be rigorously monitor . the Department should provide annual update to Parliament on their impact , and if a profit cap be introduce , my Committee must be consult on draft regulation . our inquiry examine all form of child ' s social care : foster care , adoption , kinship care , residential care and support for disabled child . within foster care — the most common placement type — there be a shortage of approximately 6 , 500 carer . we urge the Department to develop a national foster strategy . simply continue to advertise for more foster carer will not be sufficient , and work be need to address some of the practical barrier that prevent foster carer from be able to sign up once they show an interest in do so . in particular , we be call for collaboration with the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government to ensure that housing policy properly support foster carer recruitment . kinship care be a vital option for many child . the forthcoming kinship allowance pilot must provide financial support equivalent to that of foster carer , and we call for legislation to guarantee kinship leave entitlement . for adopted child , the adoption and special guardianship support fund must be make permanent to eliminate annual funding uncertainty . while we support the emphasis on kinship and foster care , high - quality residential care remain essential for some child . report of child place in unsuitable setting such as caravan and boat be completely unacceptable — the opposite of a child - centre approach . the new regulation and inspection regime for supported accommodation be a positive step , but universal care standard must apply across all placement . the social care workforce be in crisis , with high turnover and overstretch staff increase safeguard risk . we call for a comprehensive workforce strategy to improve retention and reduce reliance on agency staff , which increase by 38 % over the five year to 2022 . disabled child face significant barrier , include limited access to respite care and inconsistent assessment . we hear that support for disabled child be often deprioritise as social service focus on child protection concern , and that sometimes parent of disabled child be treat with suspicion and subject to inappropriate assessment without justification when they need support . we urge the Department to implement the Law Commission ' s proposal and establish clear national eligibility criterion . mental health support be another critical gap . child in care be four time more likely to experience mental health challenge , yet access to service remain inadequate . we recommend pilot co - locate mental health service between social care and child and adolescent mental health service , and strengthen mental health assessment for child in care . it be essential that child in care have a voice when important decision be be make about their life . currently , too few child be access the advocacy support they be entitle to , with an average referral rate of just 5 % across local authority . we endorse the independent review ' s proposal for an opt - out model of independent advocacy for all child in care , to ensure their voice be hear . reunification with birth family , when safe and appropriate , can be a positive outcome for child and parent . however , current practice be inconsistent . the Department must evaluate reunification practice and publish national guidance to ensure it be prioritise when suitable and in the good interest of the child . there be 49 , 000 child on child protection plan in 2024 — an increase of 1 , 600 from 2014 . neglect remain a significant concern , and we call for a national survey on the prevalence of abuse and neglect and a dedicated national neglect strategy . finally , and most concerningly , support for young people when they leave care be simply not good enough . care leaver have some of the poor outcome in society across a range of measure : 39 % of care leaver aged 19 to 21 be not in education , training or employment , compare with 13 % of all young people in that age group , and it be estimate that a quarter of homeless people have be in care . care leaver still face a cliff edge in support on turn 18 . we hear from young people who have to drop a - level and struggle to afford rent while in full - time education at the age of just 18 . the Department for Education must develop a national care offer to ensure minimum standard of support across the country and review and improve the financial and housing support available to care leaver . our child deserve a compassionate , coherent and effective social care system that place their need at the centre . behind every statistic be a child who deserve the same opportunity as their peer to feel safe , love and empower to thrive . the recommendation in my Committee ' s report provide a road map for reform . we urge the Government to act swiftly in address rise need , restore early intervention , reform the delivery of care placement , ensure well mental health service , support the workforce and stop care leaver face a cliff edge at the age of 18 . we owe it to these child to build a system that be not merely reactive but restorative , not just efficient but compassionate , and not only functional but transformational . I congratulate the Chair of the Select Committee on this report and thank she and the Committee for their work on it . I particularly welcome the recommendation on kinship care , which mirror closely the measure in the ten - minute rule Bill that I introduce in this place three year ago and which we on the liberal Democrat Benches have be campaign on . I hope she will work cross - party to make sure the Government go far and fast on kinship care . I want to pick up on the Committee ' s recommendation on the adoption and special guardianship support fund . she and I know how distressed the family of child who have be adopt or put into kinship care who need this support be . it be a very small amount of money — do she agree that if the fund could be expand slightly , all child could go back to have the level of support they have before the cut be introduce a few month ago ? I thank the hon . member for her question and for all her interest and work in this important area . the report make strong recommendation for the Government to make the adoption and special guardianship support fund permanent , to evaluate the impact of the cut in the short term , and to review and make change to the level of funding if necessary . we know that the Government be look at change and improvement , particularly in access to mental health service , so that more child who be adopt can get support through mainstream health service without have to rely on specialist funding as a supplement for that . we think the Government should look carefully at how that go but not be hesitant to restore the fund if that be need follow monitoring . I be pleased to have contribute to this report as a member of the Education Committee , which be excellently lead by my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) . I also thank the Clerks and staff for all their work on the Committee . it be good that the report have be welcome by the Centre for Young life , the County Councils Network , as well as care leaver charity such as Become . will my hon . friend expand on the section of the report about keep child safe ? evidence that we hear from our witness during the inquiry suggest that the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill be go to do a lot to address their concern about keep child in care safe . despite that , we have still make recommendation about multi - agency work . we have recommend that those agency have clear process in place , so that they can review and escalate concern between different agency , with a clear line of accountability and decision making to keep child safe and stop they fall through the gap . do my hon . friend agree that it should be a priority for the Department to get those process in place to prevent those child from fall through the gap ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and his contribution to the Committee ' s report . he be right — he will recall the distressing evidence that we take , which come in the short aftermath of the verdict in the case of Sara Sharif , who be so badly let down by service that have multiple opportunity to intervene and keep she safe but fail to do so . we welcome the step that the Government be take through the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill to strengthen joint working , particularly through the single child identifi and other measure around multi - agency working practice . we be call for the Government to go far , though , because none of we can tolerate see any more of those tragic case in the headline — the name of child who we remember and who be fail by service that should be there to protect they . I be immensely grateful to the Chair of the Education Committee for the way she have introduce the report and the work she have do . I be particularly move by what she say about disabled people , and I wonder if she would look at the relationship between that and special need education as there be a close association between the two . will she also look at the issue of the quality of parenting ? I be at a school in my constituency just a week ago , and I be tell that child be present to school really very poorly parent as that be relate to the subject that the hon . Lady have study . it be not all child , of course , but too many be suffer in that way . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question and his interest in this area of work . my Committee be look separately at the issue of special educational need and disability , and we expect to report shortly on that . it be an expansive and lengthy inquiry . he be , of course , right to say that there be some overlap . in relation to child ' s social care , we hear from family with disabled child about the multiple difficulty they face with different part of a system that be not join - up enough to support they . his question about parenting speak directly to our recommendation about the need to shift to early intervention , and help and support . in that vein , I welcome the Government ' s announcement this week about Best start family hub and the expansion of those service , which I believe be try to do exactly that . we will keep a close watch on how that go over the come month . I thank my hon . friend for her statement . like she , I pay tribute to the care leaver who speak to we , often share deeply traumatic story of their journey through the care system . their corporate parent be ultimately the state , and we as its custodian must bear the responsibility of ensure that we support child in care as if they be our own . do my hon . friend agree that that be why the Committee ' s recommendation that the Government should implement a national care leaver offer be so important , and that do so would guarantee a consistent approach across local authority ? I thank my hon . friend for her question and for her contribution to the report , draw on her deep experience in this sector prior to come to this place . many of we come to this subject area also as parent . I be the parent of a 19 - year - old and a 16 - year - old , and find the story that the Committee hear of child cut adrift by service at the age of 18 — when young people be still grow into adulthood and need so much help and support — heartbreaking and unacceptable . we be call for a national care offer , so that wherever care leaver be in the country , they know there be a guarantee level of support to help they into the next stage of life . I very much welcome the report , which I look forward to read in detail . I thank the Committee for all its work on this important matter , and of course the Chair for introduce its many excellent recommendation so comprehensively . there be a lot to go on , but I wish quickly to touch on two point . I declare an interest as a foster carer and adoptive parent , and I fully endorse the report , which highlight the huge widen gap in foster care provision . the emotional appeal for foster carer be powerful , but as the Committee say , it simply be not enough . do the Chair agree that properly recognise the effort and complexity involve in foster placement be urgently need , most importantly for child in care ? on support for care leaver , I have hear from too many who , on reach 18 or even before then , move out of the council area where they be take into care , so I also endorse the call for a national care leaver offer . I thank my hon . friend for his question , and for bring his personal experience to the debate . I agree with he about foster carer . we look in detail at the issue , and the gap between the number of people express an interest in foster care , compare with those who sign up and become foster carer , be enormous . we focus our attention on some of the practical barrier that prevent people from become foster parent , especially housing . that be particularly the case for foster carer who might be live in social housing . housing policy do not adequately support people who might want to come forward but do not have enough space at home , when that be often the responsibility of the same local authority that be their landlord . we think that more could be do to overcome the practical barrier that foster carer face . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . you will not know this , but I have learn that independent expert have advise that Lincolnshire police be now at real risk of have to issue a section 114 notice — the equivalent of a public body declare that it can no long balance its budget . it come after a long campaign , run my myself and colleague , about Lincolnshire police funding more generally . have the Home Secretary advise you on whether she intend to come to the House to address that , for the people of Lincolnshire be acutely worried that police service in our county will cease to protect they from the risk and reality of crime and disorder ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his point of order . the Chair have have no notice that the Government intend to make a statement , but I be sure that those on the Government Benches will have hear his comment , which be now on the record . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I support my right hon . friend the Member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) , but I want to make a different point of order . have the Government tell you that they will come to the House today to make a statement on channel crossing ? the channel be in chaos today — already 220 people have pour across — and 1 , 195 arrive on 1 June . President Macron and the Prime Minister say that this can not go on . this be an existential crisis for our country , and we want action . just take in a swap of 50 a week be not go to solve the problem . on this vital issue , have the Government come to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and say that they want to make a statement today ? I thank the right hon . member for give I notice of his point of order . I confirm that the Chair have have no notice from the Government that they intend to make such a statement today , but those on the Government Front Bench will have hear his interest in the matter . Bill present English Devolution and Community Empowerment Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Secretary Angela Rayner , support by the Prime Minister , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Pat McFadden , Secretary Wes Streeting , Secretary Bridget Phillipson , Secretary Liz Kendall and Secretary Heidi Alexander present a Bill to make provision about combined authority , combine county authority , the Greater London Authority , local council , police and crime commissioner and fire and rescue authority , local audit and term in business tenancy about rent . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time tomorrow , and to be print ( Bill 283 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 283 — en ) . Backbench Business Educational Attainment of Boys I beg to move , that this House have consider the attainment and engagement of boy in education . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant the debate , and I thank colleague from across the House for their interest in what I believe be one of the most overlooked and consequential challenge of our time : the underachievement of boy at every stage of education . this debate be not about grievance — it be about evidence . I hope that today we can focus on the datum , the consequence and the thing that must change to do well by our boy , not instead of girl , but alongside they . I be proud to have Cian and Alex , work experience student from my constituency of Bishop Auckland , with we in the Gallery this afternoon . work alongside my parliamentary assistant , they have help I to prepare for today ' s debate with thoughtfulness , curiosity and maturity . I hope that their presence be a reminder of the promise that exist in young man in County Durham and beyond . we can not ignore the reality that too many of our boy be be leave behind by a system that do not fully see they , expect much from they or equip they with the tool to thrive . let we start with the fact : by key stage 2 , only 57 % of boy meet expect standard in reading , writing and math , which be seven percentage point behind girl ; when look at the writing gap alone , boy be 13 percentage point behind girl ; in their GCSE exam , boy , on average , achieve half a grade low than girl across every subject ; at a - level , girl outperform boy by an average of over a grade and half across their good three subject ; and girl be even pull ahead in the new t - level qualification . just 30 . 4 % of 18 - year - old boy go into high education last year , compare with 42 % of girl . boy make up over 70 % of permanent school exclusion and 95 % of young people in custody . eight out of nine man in prison report that they be exclude from school . I be a secondary school teacher before I enter Parliament , and the attainment gap be a big worry , but my big worry be that we do not respond properly to or cater for people who be neurodiverse . about 20 % of our young people , include girl , be different learner , but our curriculum do not really cater for they . do the hon . Gentleman share my concern ? I do share that concern . we should have a debate about the way in which we address that issue , as well as about the issue face young care leaver . the hon . Lady make an excellent point about what the prison population look like . the issue be not just about adolescent , because the problem begin in early year . by the end of reception , just 60 . 7 % of boy be assess to be " school - ready " , compare with 75 % of girl , a point that I will return to later . where do it end ? a quarter of a million young man , age 16 to 24 , be class as neet — not in education , employment or training — which be 78 % high than the number for young woman . that be a post - covid increase of 40 % for young male , compare with an increase of just 7 % for young female . what be more , as the Centre for Social Justice report recently : " for those young man who be in work , the … gender pay gap have be reverse . young man be now out - earn by their female peer , include among the university educate . " this national challenge be especially acute in constituency like mine , of Bishop Auckland , and across former coalfield community in the north - east , where too often work - class boy start behind , and stay behind . I do not call the debate today merely to highlight an issue — I want it to lead to action and I be call for real change . that begin with take the issue seriously , because what concern I most be not the data , but the absence of outrage and lack of urgency . it be not always this way . in the 1970 and 1980 , it be girl who be lag behind . the Government rightly take action to improve outcome for girl , introduce targeted support , challenge curriculum bias , expand grammar school for girl and promote girl ' access to science , technology , engineering and mathematic . those be not small tweak , but deliberate strategic intervention , and they work . now that the situation be reverse , with boy persistently underachieving , where be the strategy ? I be not talk about a general strategy to address deprivation or educational disadvantage , but a specific , evidence - base , deliverable strategy around boy and young man that address the gender - base aspect of underachievement . at the foundation of that strategy must be a resolve to stop blame boy and to start rebuild their self - worth . there be a time in the 1970 when society do the same for girl . it become know as " the deficit approach " because it attribute girl ' underachievement , relative to boy , to a lack of effort or a deficiency in they , rather than the failure and limitation of the education system or prevalent socioeconomic trend . so - call " biological determinist " argue that gender difference be natural and unalterable , and , simply put , girl be not as bright . thankfully , those nonsense theory have be well and truly debunk when it come to girl , yet too often , when we talk about boy , the tone shift to blame . it be as if boy ' underachievement be see as self - inflict , a product of laziness or of so - call " toxic masculinity " . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure this incredibly important debate . in my eight and a half year as a math teacher , teach in inner city school , I find that the problem be never just about a lack of aspiration but about a lack of access and a lack of knowledge ; that go for any group , not just for boy . do he agree ? absolutely — that be a point well make , and I hope that we will have more contribution of that nature during the debate . boy be not the problem : it be the system that be fail they . of course we need to help boy to develop empathy , respect for those who be different , self - control , and awareness about how their word and action affect other , but can we please be more careful not to tell boy that they be , by nature , toxic , or that , in 2025 , they be privileged simply by be male , when many feel anything but that ? they feel undervalue , distrust and anxious that they will never live up to society ' s expectation . I have not intend to contribute to this debate , but the hon . Gentleman have provoke I to do so by the character of his insight . it be brave and right of he to deconstruct the nonsense about toxic masculinity , and to emphasise that white working - class boy , of the kind that be prevalent in his constituency , be particularly disadvantage by a system that have underestimate , indeed neglect , their need . he mention neet . as an education Minister , I do my good to address that issue , but successive government have do insufficient . I congratulate he on bring this debate and on what he have say in it . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his intervention and I hope he will continue to contribute to the debate . boy feel undervalued , distrust and anxious that they will not live up to society ' s expectation . Sam Fender , an icon of the north - east , recently put it : " we be very good at talk about privilege — white , male or straight privilege . we rarely talk about class , though . and that ' s a lot of the reason that all the young lad be seduce by demagogue like Andrew Tate . they ' re be shame all the time and make to feel like they ' re a problem . it ' s this narrative be tell to white boy from nowhere town . People preach to some kid in a pit town in Durham who ' s get — " nothing — " and tell he he ' s privileged ? then Tate tell he he ' s worth something ? it ' s seductive . " we can not leave that space to be fill by online influencer sell toxic answer . we have to offer something well — belong , purpose and hope . evidence show that boy thrive when , rather than be treat as a problem , they be trust within a culture of high expectation , when we set they up to succeed , and when they know that their learning be relevant and will take they somewhere . the coded message in our current curriculum be that society value academic excellence over development of technical skill and know - how . it be as if we have replace the 11 - plus with a 16 - plus exam , where those who get good GCSE result go on to sit a - level , which be give high esteem , and those who fail be push towards vocational course , as though those skill be less . a good example of a school that be buck that trend , which be attend by some of the young people from my constituency , be the University Technical College South Durham , in Newton Aycliffe , which Ofsted recently rate as one of the happy school in the country . I have meet some of its student . they all have familiar story about how they be previously suspend and in trouble all the time at school , but when they attend the utc they find purpose . they build relationship , promote leadership and make a child feel known , and that work — the child be thrive , boy include . elsewhere , school work with the yes he can programme or apply the " take Boys seriously " framework from Ulster University be close gap and rebuild trust with disengaged boy , not coddle but understand they — I look up to see where the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) be when I mention Ulster , and he be not in his place . other example be Hays Travel and Nissan , which will take young people from the age of 14 to give they vocational work experience . I welcome the Government ' s industrial strategy . it be really exciting that , for the first time in a long time , we be see a real effort to create meaningful career pathway into the sort of secure job that young people in the north - east use to be able to aspire to . another good example be the plan to build 1 . 5 million home . we know that we can not do that unless we have more skilled young people come into those profession . last week , I spend half a day with some young apprentice from Bishop Auckland college bricklaying with Gleeson Homes in my constituency . it be fabulous to see these young man who really have a sense of direction : they know that in a few year ' time , they would be earn good salary and able to build good family life . my hon . friend be give a truly insightful and much - need speech on this important matter . will he join I in recognise the importance of pre - apprenticeship work for young boy who be not yet ready to take on apprenticeship , as well as the value of some of the voluntary organisation , such as MPower in St Blazey in my constituency ? one hundred per cent . that be another good example of why we need to create those pathway . let I say that I be not call for we to stop encourage young man to go to university . I be a working - class lad , and I be much well suited to go the academic route than I be to work as a mechanic or something , as those who have see I put up a shelf will attest . I be call for great parity of esteem , respect for all skill and early opportunity for people to feel value , as my hon . friend the Member for St Austell and Newquay ( Noah Law ) just point out . I will praise the hon . Gentleman again . he be absolutely right about really value practical learning . I come from a similar background to he ; I be not clever enough to be practical , so I have to become an academic . re - establish the idea that vocational , practical accomplishment have at least equal prowess to academic learning — I think it have great prowess , actually — be fundamental . may I add one other example , with your indulgence , Madam Deputy Speaker ? the hon . Gentleman will know of the Men ' s Sheds movement , which be typically for old man . I visit the man ' s shed in Long Sutton , of which I be president , and there be a youth shed bring young people into a male community , allow boy to share , learn and grow . what a great example . I thank the right hon . gentleman for that . I will speed through the rest of my speech , because I be conscious of time and the contribution of other people . we want young boy to go to university too . I declare an interest : I use to tutor for the Brilliant Club in school in the north - east . that be about young people whose parent may not have go to university and help they to have that aspiration and realise what they could do . on early year , as I say at the beginning , a lot of attainment be set before the age of five — we know that even by the age of five , boy be behind girl . this government be do some significant thing that be important in that regard , include the Best Start family hub , which be announce just this week . those be about not just child , but parent be able to access support . as a parent myself , I know that I raise my seven - year - old son much well than I raise my 18 - year - old son , because I make so many mistake in know how to help he . too often , I try to use a carrot - and - stick approach and do not understand well enough how to help he to reflect on his behaviour , although they be both wonderful boy . the free breakfast club initiative be about so much more than just breakfast . I recently visit Cockfield primary school in my constituency , where , since it be an early adopter of the scheme , attendance go from about 10 or 12 child to 60 child every morning . I meet child who use to have difficulty be on time or who be regularly absent , and I be tell how they be now come and thriving . a wise headteacher there be use that scheme not just to feed the child , but to engage they in meaningful activity that help develop their social and emotional skill . before I be elect , I be a governor at Benfieldside primary school in County Durham , where we introduce a specialist social and emotional learning programme . that be about help child to develop so - call 21st century skill , such as emotional self - regulation , recognise what they be feel , self - awareness , social awareness , empathy and how to build healthy relationship . the teacher report remarkable difference within a year of the programme ' s introduction , and parent be come in and say , " something be happen to my child , because they be so much calm and well able to manage their behaviour . " there be real opportunity for we to grasp this issue in the breakfast club , in free school meal provision and in the Best Start family hub . this be about not just increase funding , but content . if I have one ask of the Minister today , it be to give 30 minute of her time , either by herself or with official , to meet with I and people I use to work with in this field who have develop these really useful tool that can be introduce in any classroom setting . I believe we urgently need a national strategy for boy ' attainment that be cross - party , evidence - base and root in fairness . it should invest in teacher training that recognise gender bias and engage boy more effectively . it should embed social and emotional learning throughout the curriculum , especially in early year and transition stage . it should expand vocational and technical pathway , recognise different route to success . it should promote leadership opportunity for boy in school life and , most importantly , ensure transparent , gender - disaggregate datum to hold ourselves accountable nationally and locally . this be a debate not just about attainment , but about dignity . it be about who we see and who we invest in . I do not want boy in Bishop Auckland , Bootle , Barry or Basingstoke to feel that the system have no place for they ; I want they to feel see , support and believe in , because when we raise the floor for those who be struggle , we lift the whole classroom . let we act with some of the clarity and courage we show a generation ago for girl — our boy and our society deserve nothing less . I call the Chair of the Education Committee . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) on secure this debate and on his excellent speech . as the Chair of the Education Committee , I want to see every child and young person engage in learn throughout their time in education , and help to find their individual interest and passion , whether they be academic , vocational or a mix of both , and to have build a strong foundation on which they can thrive beyond their time in education and into adulthood . in their work , my Committee and its predecessor Committee have hear about the many and varied difference between group of child and young people and the need to do more to close those gap in participation and attainment . our immediate predecessor Committee launch an inquiry on the topic of the educational attainment of boy , but the calling of the snap general election last summer mean that the Committee never meet to discuss the evidence receive from stakeholder . I have draw on that evidence in prepare for this debate . the Association of School and College Leaders be clear that it be important not to generalise about boy ' educational engagement and attainment . many boy achieve well in education , demonstrate good engagement and achieve qualification that allow they to move on to the next stage of their education , or into an apprenticeship or their first job . however , there be particular group of boy who perform less well than similar group of girl . dig into and understand this detail be an important part of address those disparity . I be fascinate by what I be hear today . I meet Tony Bury , my bath constituent , who be work with the Centre for Social Justice on improve outcome for boy — I encourage everybody who be interested in this issue to read its late report , " Lost Boys " . do the hon . Member agree that we need a national strategy to address the underachievement of some boy ? I thank the hon . member for her intervention . to reflect on what my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland have say , I believe there be a need for a strategic approach to this issue , but as I will talk about later , my Committee be look at inclusive education and how we can make change in the system that help school to respond in a more define way to the need of individual child . I believe that , through some of those technique , we can create an education system that work for everybody . in particular , when we think about the group of boy who do not thrive so well in education , we know that white british boy , black caribbean boy and mixed white and black caribbean boy eligible for free school meal have particularly low level of attainment , as do those from Gypsy or Roma background or Travellers of irish heritage . difference between girl and boy emerge in the early year and pre - school phase and continue right through to high education . there be a difference in speech and oral language development between boy and girl from the early year , which be reflect in a gender gap in phonic performance in year 1 . with the exception of math , girl outperform boy at key stage 1 and 2 , particularly in reading and writing . at the end of reception year , age around five , three quarter of girl have a good level of development , while less than two third of boy do . at key stage 4 , girl outperform boy on all of the headline Department for Education measure . some 68 % of girl in state - fund school achieve both English and Maths gcse at grade 4 or above , which be 5 % high than the rate for boy . progression to high education at the age of 19 be high for young woman than it be for young man , and among those who do take up a place at university , young man have high rate of drop - out than young woman . however , despite enter the workforce with low qualification than woman on average , man still earn more on average , with the gender pay gap grow over time . as such , this be an area of policy that require complex and nuanced consideration . be the difference between girl ' and boy ' attainment due to a continue improvement over many year in the attainment and engagement of girl , challenge for specific group of boy , or a mixture of both , and what can and should be do to address those disparity ? the evidence that the Select Committee have receive reveal different view on what step should be take to address these persistent difference throughout school and university . one viewpoint be that take step to improve engagement and attainment for every pupil will naturally help improve the engagement and attainment of those group of boy demonstrate the big gender gap . the OECD report , " Gender , Education and Skills : the Persistence of Gender Gaps in Education and Skills " , publish in 2023 , state that " gender disparity in school performance and the resultant career choice do not stem from innate difference in aptitude but rather from student ' attitude towards learn and their behaviour in school , from how they choose to spend their leisure time , and from the confidence they have — or do not have — in their ability as student . " read ability be a key cornerstone of many other aspect of education , and the seemingly continual decrease in the proportion of boy read for pleasure over the year be one important issue to tackle . I commend BookTrust on the work it be do with child ' s laureate Frank Cottrell - Boyce to promote the importance and the joy of reading for pleasure , and to encourage and support more child to find their love of book . we know that screentime and the use of smartphone be have profound impact on child and young people from an increasingly young age . among the many harm that child be expose to as a consequence of their engagement online , teacher , parent and young people themselves report exposure to toxic masculinity . we also know that excessive screentime harm young people ' s sleep , reduce their attention span and affect their ability to concentrate . these be complex and difficult area , but I be clear that urgent action be need to protect child from online harm , and that take step to promote positive role model and challenge unacceptable monoculture on social medium should be a priority . there be also a big difference in the proportion of male and female teacher , particularly in primary school . it be important that we continue to support and encourage more man to teach young child . evidence to the Select Committee suggest that a quarter of all state - fund primary school do not have a single male classroom teacher . it be clearly important that we have woman role model to encourage participation and engagement among girl , particularly in STEM subject , but the same apply to boy see male teacher in the classroom and in other educational role , such as learn support assistant . there be a difference between boy and girl in the presentation and diagnosis of special educational need and disability , and our work on the Education Select Committee be clear about both the failure of the current SEND system — describe as " lose , lose , lose " by the last Conservative Secretary of State for Education — and the need to drive early identification of need , instead of allow child to go unsupported in education . education , health and care plan be more than twice as prevalent for boy as for girl — as of the beginning of this year , 23 % of boy be identify with SEN , compare with 13 % of girl . too many child struggle with dyslexia . the delay for assess pupil with social , emotional and mental health issue be unacceptable , and ADHD be significantly underdiagnose across the country . my Committee have be look in detail at SEND for several month now , and we will shortly publish our report . our work have include visit to a number of school and college setting that be already deliver inclusive practice for SEND . it seem clear that some of the technique that can be use to ensure that every child ' s need be meet in school would also deliver benefit specifically for boy who be underachieving . for example , at Aylsham high school in Norfolk , which we be pleased to visit just a couple of week ago , and at West Credit secondary school in Ontario , we see vocational subject , such as construction skill , horticulture and food production , on offer alongside academic subject in a way that help to secure the interest and engagement of a wide range of pupil . we know that the previous Government ' s change to the curriculum have result in a sharp decline in the availability of some creative subject and sport in our school . we all appreciate the importance in education of people find the thing that they love to do and can succeed at , which can sustain their motivation to participate in some aspect of education that be more challenging . it be important that we have an education system that can deliver that for every child . every Member of this House will remember that special teacher who spark a particular interest in a field of study , or a passion for an area that particularly enthuse and engage we . for I , it be my former headteacher , Tony Richardson of Ormskirk grammar school , which confusingly be actually a comprehensive school . he be my english teacher , and he teach I about debating and literature and take a close interest , and it make a huge difference . tackle the recruitment and retention crisis in teaching , and help teacher to commit to stay for the long term , also allow child to have that special relationship with staff , which be important . this week , my Committee hear from Professor Becky Francis , who be lead the Government ' s curriculum and assessment review . Professor Francis be clear on the importance and challenge of ensure that every pupil , no matter their background , can find themselves in the curriculum they be teach across a wide range of subject . whether it be careful tracking of pupil , a rich and varied curriculum , exciting trip , make every lesson engage , make sure there be opportunity to secure content that might not have be fully grasp on the first attempt , teacher whose enthusiasm and knowledge be match by their pedagogical skill , improved teacher training , time for continue professional development , strong leadership from school leader , or the improved engagement of parent and carer , it will all help every child to achieve their full potential . that include the group of boy who be underperform compare with their peer . we must build an education system in which every child can thrive . that require an honest acknowledgment of the area in which our system be currently fail , include for some group of boy ; a forensic understanding of the reason why ; and the courage to deliver reform that can make a difference . this be a vitally important issue , and it be one in which my Committee will continue to maintain a close interest . rise — order . member will have notice that time be tick on , and I want to get as many people in as possible . I would therefore be grateful if member could limit their remark to around four minute . I start by thank my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) for secure this crucial debate . the attainment and engagement of boy , especially work - class boy , in their education will determine how society will look in the year and decade to come . despite the importance of this topic , however , it have languish at the bottom of the list of national priority for far too long . in my constituency of Heywood and Middleton North , I be proud of the contribution make by teacher who work hard to leave no child behind , but until there be worthy intervention at a national level to address the scale of the current crisis in the system over boy ' attainment , they will be do so with one hand tie behind their back . this issue and its driver have be misunderstood and misrepresent for far too long , and I be pleased to see mps today grapple with the topic in a way that some have not , but that be only half the battle . historically , only piecemeal policy proposal have be half - heartedly explore — proposal unfit even to nip at the heel of this challenge , let alone address it in its entirety . who must live with the consequence of that inertia ? it be the boy who have go to school this morning , in my constituency and across the country . they be less likely than girl in their class , if current trend persist , to seize the opportunity that school offer they . boy and young man in community like mine be just as deserve of a chance to get on in life and to fulfil their potential as their counterpart in more affluent area , but they have be badly let down . in the postcode lottery that have affect our society , it be disadvantaged boy who be be hold back . as my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland point out early , " class " be not a dirty word , and we must not shy away from it when talk about this issue . in Rochdale borough , where my constituency sit , there be a 17 % gap between boy eligible for free school meal and those who be not when it come to who be meet the expect standard in reading , writing and math at key stage 2 . that gap reverberate throughout boy ' entire academic career , and it widen when they come to sit their gcse . there be a 22 % gap in the borough between boy who receive free school meal and those who do not when it come to the percentage of pupil get grade 4 or above in English and math at the end of high school . in both instance , boy on free school meal , which be a welcome and wholly necessary intervention , be underperform by comparison with those who be not . it be not by a slight amount ; it be significant . there be crossover when it come to the issue at play here — not just around gender , but around socioeconomic circumstance . one way of assess this more closely be by compare the rate of exclusion among boy from deprive area with the rate among girl and their male counterpart from more affluent background . poor boy be twice as likely as their female peer to be permanently exclude , and five time more likely than their more affluent male peer to be remove from school . accord to the Centre for Social Justice , the gap be widen . in some instance , economic hardship can be a contribute factor to exclusion and isolation , which can obviously lead to multiple negative outcome . school exclusion and low attendance be intimately link to crime , with the Prison Reform Trust recently highlight that 59 % of the prison population be regularly truant from school . this be not a party political issue , because no party have a monopoly on good idea . in order to get this right across the whole country , we must speak to those who , even in the most try of circumstance , be make inroad in support boy to succeed and thrive , and we must enable institution to inform national policy , rather than think that we know well . I welcome the step that the Department for Education have take recently , but we must go even far . although class be currently not a protect characteristic , it should be give a similar level of parity . I believe that the Government should be mandate to consider class when policy proposal relate to child ' s education be be consider . arbitrary and outdated measure of class lead to arbitrary and outdated policy outcome , and we need to codify a modern definition of class in order to hold government to account through this lens . the clock be tick for the boy who go to school hungry this morning , for those struggle to keep pace with their peer in their schoolwork , for those cry out for a teacher to recognise their individual need and to act , and for those who stand on the brink of exclusion . their future hang in the balance , and we can no long neglect to ask the question that we may not like the answer to . the challenge face boy in school be complex , and the solution will take grit to implement , but it be time to finally heed the warning that have be sound for decade and to find the courage that elude we in face up to these challenge in the past . I truly fear the consequence if we do not . rise — order . there be an immediate three - minute time limit . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) for secure this very important debate . I rise to speak on an issue that cut across every postcode , every classroom and every community : the persistent and grow gap in educational engagement and attainment among our boy . although I declare an interest by admit to the House that I be the proud mum of two boy , we must make it clear that this be not about pit one group of student against another . it be about recognise that some of our boy — particularly those from working - class background and from the british caribbean community , and boy with special educational need — be be systematically leave behind by a system that be never design with they in mind . over the past decade , nearly 1 million five - year - old boy have start primary school already behind . by the age of 11 , girl consistently outperform boy in read by around seven percentage point , and in write by about six percentage point , while the math gap sit at around five point . by GCSE level , 68 % of girl achieve at least grade 4 in English and math , compare with just 63 % of boy . these be not trivial difference ; they be measurable , systemic and enduring . among pupil eligible for free school meal , the attainment gap fall across the same old fault line , with just 34 % of white boy and 36 % of black caribbean boy achieve at least grade 4 in English and math . in Croydon East , I have hear from teacher , youth worker , parent and student that our young people , and those who support they , know that they do not lack talent , ambition or even motivation , but opportunity . we need a curriculum that speak to they , mentor that look like they and teacher who truly believe in they . I welcome this Government ' s commitment to break down barrier to opportunity , to raise standard and to give all child the good start in life . now be the time to consider how we invest in early intervention , before exclusion and the school - to - prison pipeline take hold , to look at how we expand male role model with male teacher , but also with mentoring and youth outreach in the community , and to change accountability system in school so that we be not punish creativity , but have a more inclusive approach to how people learn . it be time for we to stop ask why boy be disengage , and to start ask what we can do to change how we re - engage they , because every boy in Croydon and all across Britain deserve the right to learn , thrive and dream . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) not just for secure this debate , but for his excellent speech at the outset . it be so good that he inspire the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) to cross the Floor — very briefly . as the Member for Suffolk Coastal , I have hear from parent , teacher and community leader about their grow concern on this very topic of the educational outcome of boy , particularly those from disadvantaged and rural background . we have already hear a lot about the datum , and it be stark . nationally , boy be consistently underperform girl at every stage from early year through to gcse and beyond . in 2023 , just 60 % of boy meet the expect standard in reading , writing and math at key stage 2 compare with 70 % of girl , and we know boy be less likely to achieve a grade 5 or above in English and math gcse . the issue be about not just attainment , but engagement . boy be far more likely to be exclude and more likely to be label as disruptive . they be less likely to enjoy school or feel that it meet their need . that be especially true in rural area such as mine where transport , funding and access to support service all create additional barrier . in Suffolk Coastal , we have see at first hand the effect of these systemic issue . parent in Leiston and Felixstowe tell I they be worried that their son be be write off far too early . we know that child with complex need or SEND issue , especially autism and ADHD , face even more barrier to get on in school . with an overstretched educational system and EHCP delay , for child battle SEND the barrier be continue to stack up . we need to rethink how we engage boy — not through blame or stereotype , but through recognise diversity of need and learn style . this mean early intervention with more speech and language support in the early year , and the new Best Start family hub programme could be a real game changer in place such as Suffolk Coastal by provide the right level of support . we also need to have a truly broad and balanced curriculum , and parity of esteem for art and sport with vocational learning be at the heart of that . we need to make sure that school be genuinely a place for child , and boy specifically , to thrive , not feel as though they be a round peg be force into a square hole . in closing , if we be serious about improve boy ' attainment , we need a system that support their potential and be build around they . we need to back school , family and community with the resource they need to close that gap . this be not just for boy , but for society as a whole . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) for secure today ' s debate . as other have do , I start by say that the number be stark . by almost every measure , boy be fall behind . by the end of primary school , just 57 % of boy meet the expect standard in English and math , compare with 64 % of girl . for a white , working - class boy from a low - income household , that picture be even bleaker . just 33 % of those eligible for free school meal meet that same benchmark at GCSE . I thank my hon . friend for his speech . the educational attainment of boy be a serious concern , and I agree with he that it be principally a class issue . working - class boy be far behind in their gcse and face high NEET rate and exclusion rate , with a low rate of those go on to he . do my hon . friend agree that to prevent crime and antisocial behaviour and to deal with wide economic issue , we need to see early intervention and target support for working - class boy ? my hon . friend be absolutely right , and I will come on to many of the issue that he refer to . he represent a community with a demographic that be similar in many way to my own , so I very much welcome his effort in this space . in Staffordshire , as across the country , boy be around 50 % more likely to be exclude than girl , and twice as likely to be permanently exclude . we have to work out why that be happen , and why so many of our boy and young man feel out of place in the classroom and in school , and subsequently rebel against the system . as the first in my family to attend university , I know that our education system , particularly after the incredibly damaging reform of a certain former Education Secretary , all too often feel like it be one size fit all . that be a particular barrier to opportunity for white , working - class boy , who often do not see themselves reflect in school . Cannock Chase sadly fall significantly behind the national average , with just 23 % of over - 16s receive a high education qualification , compare with 34 % nationally . in ' 22 - 23 , 34 % of man from Staffordshire have start in high education by the age of 19 , compare with 49 % of woman . as a man raise to be a proud feminist , the fact that the rate and number of woman go to university have increase hugely since first overtake those of man in the mid - ' 90 should absolutely be welcome . it should not be see , in any way , as something that be take away from man , as it be sometimes falsely characterise . in recognise that , however , we must not ignore the fact that the rate and number of man go on to high education have rise much more slowly . even more stark be the fact that 22 % of young people in Cannock Chase leave school with no qualification at all , and only 57 % of white boy from Staffordshire meet the expect standard in english reading and writing and math last year . for young boy , those be not just statistic ; they be social problem . we must also recognise the danger of ignore a grow crisis among boy — when they feel alienated from school and opportunity , other step in to fill that gap . most worryingly , that include the rise of toxic figure on social medium who spread misogyny . young boy be be feed a version of masculinity build not on resilience , education and kindness , but on dominance , grievance and hatred . as have be say , if we shame man as a whole , or characterise all of they as privileged , we not only fail to address this issue but push many boy towards those malign influence and risk lose a generation to that toxicity . I welcome the fact that the Government be work to address the root cause of violence against woman and girl in school , teach pupil about healthy relationship and consent . we need to draw boy into education by show they that it matter , and that they matter . we need to show they that they will play a role in our society , and that learning be not just for the academically gifted and the privileged . we must invest in mentoring , mental health and early intervention . we must back apprenticeship , technical pathway and , as a society , value they as much as we do degree . we must understand why so many man be walk away from education and training . be it a lack of support or financial pressure ? whatever the cause , it deserve real scrutiny from this House and real solution . we must also explore reform assessment method , because not every young person thrive in a system build around high - stake exam . coursework , modular learning and vocational achievement must be value equally , as they be when I be at school . above all , as we have do today , we must talk about this openly , honestly and with urgency . we have to inspire boy to stay and thrive in education , and — as my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland so eloquently put it — not shame they or make out that they have privilege when they have anything but . instead , we must guide they towards a future define not by anger or exclusion but by achievement and respect . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) on secure this important debate , and I pay credit to the work do by the young man in his office . for too many year we have be sleepwalk into a crisis of boy disengage , and we have finally have the wake - up call that we desperately need to show we that this House must do well . from the tv show " Adolescence " to Gareth Southgate ' s lecture on the lack of male role model and the Centre for Social Justice ' s report on " Lost Boys " , with its shocking revelation that two third of those who be unemployed be young man , it be clear that everyone else can see this problem . now it be time for we to tackle it . I stand as an MP because I truly believe that this be the party that would break down the barrier to opportunity , and it could not be clear that that mean tackle the issue of boy ' disengagement from education . with only a third of boy on free school meal achieve grade 4 in both English and math , it be time to ask why and to ask what this Government should be do to break the glass ceiling for working - class boy across the nation . I have champion the role of sport many time before in this place and I will do it again today , because we have mountain of datum that show that access to sport do matter . for boy who struggle to get through the school day , PE be often the only thing that keep they show up in the morning ; for boy who be on the edge of exclusion , we have see that sport - lead intervention can bring they back from the edge and improve their engagement with school ; and for boy look for community and a sense of belong , we know that , too often , they find that online in isolated community or in group commit act of antisocial behaviour . the truth be that we be see the result of the conservative party ' s decision to spend year starve neighbourhood of funding for community sport club . a local teacher from Nicholas Chamberlaine school in Bedworth in my constituency tell I that most child access physical activity only in school . she tell I that this be " because the area be less privileged and so access to sport club , safe outdoor space and even basic fitness opportunity outside school be limited . " that must change . the evidence be clear : sport - lead intervention work . they work when police force implement they , they work when school use they and they work when local council implement they . my ask today be clear : fund sport - lead intervention and fund they properly , and give young people the sense of community and access to sport that they be cry out for . before I finish , I want to take a moment to praise the many wonderful talented and kind young man and boy I have meet , include : one of my volunteer , who be one of the most dedicated and hard - work people I know ; the young man I have meet in my constituency who be coach for their local club or who help out by volunteer and referee at local game ; and the young man who have join my team for work experience . I commend my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) on secure this incredibly important debate . we be here to talk about boy in education — their engagement , their outcome , and their future . the truth be that too many boy be fall behind . in Staffordshire , just 36 . 3 % of boy achieve a grade 5 or above in English and math GCSE last year . that is 1 percentage point down from the year before . behind every percentage point be a lad whose life chance be narrow . they could be our future engineer , our carer , our bricklayer , our paramedic or our entrepreneur — full of potential but maybe start to think that school just be not for they . that should worry we all . what be clear be that it be not just about what happen in secondary school ; the sign be there so much early . we know that boy be far less likely than girl to finish reception with a good level of development . that early gap often set the tone for the year ahead . this be about far more than teaching ; it be about whether family can get into a nursery , whether health service be in place and whether parent feel support in the early year . we can not fix educational inequality without look at the big picture . that include child ' s mental health , family support and , vitally , investment in our town and village . when a place be leave behind , the young people who live there be leave behind too , and we know from the datum that it be particularly boy who be be leave behind . I be call on the Government today to continue be bold : to invest in the wraparound support that help child to thrive , to expand mental health support in school and to strengthen the tie between school , family and local service , because when those link be strong , child do well . we know that intervention be find not only in education , but in community . my hon . friend the Member for North Warwickshire and Bedworth ( Rachel Taylor ) speak of the value of sport , which be incredibly important in create opportunity . the challenge of how to be a man in 21st - century Britain be brilliantly portray in the BAFTA - win series " Big Boys " , where young man grapple not only with the pressure of be work class at university , but with the simple yet profound question of how to be both kind and " masculine " . my hon . friend the Member for East Thanet ( Ms Billington ) , who be my good friend , could not be here today , but she have be do vital work champion the 93 % Club , which support working - class university student and graduate . I be also a proud member of that club . she often reference the character of Danny in " Big Boys " as an example and an inspiration . it be a powerful reminder that policy must meet young people where they be and lift they to where they deserve to be . if we want a fair , more productive Britain , we can not keep write off young working - class boy who be struggle to find their place in education . we owe they well , and I know that the teacher , school and wide community in Stafford , Eccleshall and the village be ready to deliver when we give they the tool to do so . today I will speak about how boy from more deprived background have few academic and non - academic skill , and how it be harm their ability to get decent job in the post - industrial era . this topic be the subject of my second phd paper , and although I can not force member to read it , I can certainly force they all to listen today . the puzzle that my paper address be why non - graduate man be find it so hard to get job in the post - industrial economy . the employment rate for non - graduate man have fall from about 90 % in the 1970s to about 75 % in 2020 . the manufacture job that they use to do have disappear , but if employment rate have rise as they have , why can they not get job in the service sector ? the answer — or at least part of the answer — be in the early year of young boy ' live . by the age of five , the least - skilled boy have low academic and non - academic skill than the least - skilled girl . that make it hard for they to attain in school and to develop the perseverance and social skill that they need . the physical skill that be reward in the post - industrial economy lose out in the move to the service economy . how do we fix this and ensure that young boy can get the job that they need in our economy ? as my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) have point to , it be about the early year and even before birth . it be first about make their parent ' live affordable . Less time for parent worry about bill mean more quality time with their kid , and more money in the pocket of parent mean more psychological and material resource to invest in their child . secondly , invest in high - quality early year education be probably the high return investment that any Government can make . thirdly , we have to create good job for graduate and non - graduate to move into , for both man and woman . mass production manufacturing be not come back , but we in government can create good non - graduate job in construction , healthcare and education . we must invest in our physical and social infrastructure to create the good job we need , where we need they . every person should be able to live a decent life , but as thing stand , too many people can not . there be many young man whose father leave school and get decent job at the local factory , but those young man can not do the same today . that disappointment turn to depression , anger and division . rather than come together , we be fall apart . strength be find in each of we do well — each of we do so with a common purpose and connection . it be for we in this place , on this side , to build that nation . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . can I start by warmly congratulate the hon . member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) on secure this incredibly important debate and on his powerful and insightful opening speech ? it behove all of we to spend more time on this topic , so I be grateful that he have make I look into it more than I have previously . it go without say that our education system should enable every child to flourish , no matter their gender , need or background , but as we have hear all too clearly already , for too long cohort of boy have fail to thrive in our education system in the way that they should , with a widen attainment gap between boy and girl , particularly among white working - class boy . we have hear the statistic already , and I note that many of they come from the excellent report by the Centre for Social Justice , but they bear repetition because they be so shocking . where 75 % of girl be school - ready , only 60 % of boy be . in GCSE exam boy achieve on average half a grade low than girl across every subject , and at a - level girl outperform boy by an average of over a grade and a half across their good three subject . too many boy be quite clearly fail to reach their potential at school , and this be have severe and long - last consequence for our society and the economy . since the pandemic alone , the number of young man age 16 to 24 who be not in education , employment or training have increase by a staggering 40 % . accord to the Higher Education Policy Institute , man with no qualification be nearly twice as likely as woman with no qualification to be unemployed , and if they be employ , they be more likely to work in hazardous , menial or stagnant role . that make man less likely to look after their mental and physical health , lead to high rate of substance abuse , smoking and alcohol consumption , low life expectancy , and much high rate of imprisonment and death by suicide . it be hardly surprising that so many boy feel hopeless . some 41 % of teenager report that they have be teach that young man be a problem for society . Tim Page , service co - ordinator at Catch22 , say : " there be no trust or hope in the future , a young man from a disadvantaged background have no clear path towards make a future for themselves , the only option for hundred of boy and young man I have work with be crime or benefit . " I think that should make we all stop and reflect . education be obviously vital in tackle this tragic and disturbing trend , not just to enable pupil to achieve good grade and a decent salary , but to inspire our child so that they grow up to do good and important thing as part of a thriving community and society . I agree with the hon . member for Bishop Auckland ; I think it probably be time for a gender - specific strategy look at boy in particular , but as the Chair of the Select Committee , the hon . member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , point out , some of the wide systemic challenge face our education system have a particular impact on boy . as the Government be consider a number of these issue , I think it would be worth look at they through a gender - specific lens . we need good teacher to stay in our boy ' life and to guide and encourage they , whether on career option for the future or just as good role model , yet over the past 12 year more than 40 , 000 state school teacher leave within one year of qualifying , and just 24 % of the overall teaching workforce be male and 30 % of primary school have no male teacher at all . I be think about this last night , actually . both my child be at primary school . one of they will leave in the next few week , and by far and away the teacher that she have talk about the most in her seven year there have be a male teacher . he have only be teach she for a day a week in year 6 , but all the kid love he and look up to he . I have never hear they speak about any other teacher in such a way . it be largely a female - dominate school , and it be wonderful to see such affection for a male teacher and such a role model for all the child , both girl and boy . many attribute the shortage of teacher — both male and female — to the condition that teacher face and a lack of career progression . I believe that the presence of more male teacher would normalise learn as a suitable activity for man and boy and may especially help child who do not have positive male role model at home . however , as the Minister know , school be face the impossible task of try to find more money in their already squeeze budget to cover underfunded national insurance increase and teacher pay rise . while the Government have promise to recruit 6 , 500 more teacher , I have yet to see how they will be able to achieve that . some of the hopelessness that many boy be experience also stem from inadequate mental health support . we know that boy be twice as likely as girl to be exclude from school . sadly , exclusion and criminal activity be too often intimately related . those who be exclude multiple time from school be more likely to have a young age of first conviction . mental health researcher have note that boy in emotional mental distress tend to use cope strategy that externalise into violence and destruction , while girl be more likely to internalise into self - harm and depression . we Liberal Democrats have long call for a dedicated qualified mental health practitioner to be place in every primary and secondary school to help tackle mental health and behavioural concern early . while I be glad that the Government be continue to roll out mental health support team in school , I fear that those team be really overstretch , because they be often share between several primary and secondary school , with perhaps half a day or a day a week of mental health practitioner time in each , mean that child do not have consistent access five day a week to a trusted person to support they with their mental health . I hope the Minister will say something about how the roll - out can be speed up and those team grow so that there be more coverage for each of our school . of course , there be a big overlap between mental health provision and special educational need and disability provision . boy make up over 60 % of those receive special educational need support and over 70 % of those on education , health and care plan . those receive SEND support be more than twice as likely to be exclude as the average boy , and more than five time as likely to be exclude as the average girl . too many child be be force out of school due to a failure to provide the require support for they to learn . I have hear time and again from parent and kinship carer who feel that they have be let down by the SEND system in this country and that they be have to try to educate their child with no support . that have very much drive up the number of child be home - school , so I hope the Minister will use this opportunity to assure parent and carer of child with SEND across the country that their right will not be roll back when the Government look to reform our broken SEND system . family must be at the heart of these change , so that all child can access the support they deserve . I urge the Minister to look at the five principle for SEND reform that the Liberal Democrats publish yesterday . finally , seriously tackle the feeling of hopelessness among young boy mean look at the online world . we have see from research that algorithm be feed increasingly violent and misogynistic content towards boy . with 60 % of child age eight to 10 have a social media account , it be wrong that company can profit from addictive and harmful algorithm . we need to start take a health approach to online safety , with tight regulation of the tech giant and by empower and educate young people and the adult who care for they about the online world . crucially , we need to provide alternative space and activity for young people , so that they be not always glue to a screen when they have spare time . the Liberal Democrats want the digital age of consent raise , to end addictive algorithms and to stop company trade on our child ' s attention . I very much hope that the Government will not kowtow to Donald Trump and remove the digital service tax , but instead treble it , so that that money can be invest in improve our child ' s wellbee and mental health . I once again thank the hon . member for Bishop Auckland for secure this important debate , and I look forward to hear what the Minister have to say . I call the shadow Minister . in Leicestershire , where I be from , it be the last week of term , so as we come to the end of the school year — my child ' s primary school have only just break up — I want to thank all the teacher and other staff in our school who have work so hard this year , for both our boy and our girl . we as mp go in and teach for an hour or something like that and realise how hard it be , so we pay tribute to all of they . I also want to say thank you to the hon . member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) , who lead we off with an absolutely brilliant speech — it really be a genuinely brilliant speech . I see my right hon . friend the Member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) , who be no long in his place , go across the Chamber to congratulate he , so I be sure the whip will have he on defection watch now . indeed , everyone have give brilliant speech , despite the three - minute time limit . when the hon . member for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) say that he would give we his entire second phd in two minute and 15 second , I be a bit nervous for he , but he make a good fist of it , so well do everybody . this be a very timely debate . People have already talk about the recent report from the Centre for Social Justice , and there have also be some great work by the Higher Education Policy Institute . it be also a very important debate , and one in which we must not be insular . there be a global trend ; in fact , the OECD say that 56 % of university entrant across the entire developed world be now woman , which be a huge change right across the industrialise economy . in fact , woman be the majority of entrant to university in every single OECD country now , which would have be mind - blow in the 1970 . those trend can be see here in England and Scotland , and across the entire UK . a few member have talk about the intersection of gender , ethnicity , class , income , and so on and so forth . those intersection be interesting , and they show we powerfully how important culture be . for example , among white boy who be not on free school meal , 38 % go to university . among indian girl who be on free school meal , 68 % go . that be totally against the trend of income , and it show the power of culture . we can see the big difference between girl and boy at every level of the income distribution . the culture for boy when it come to education , particularly working - class boy , be pretty disastrous . I remember exactly what it be like — I be in it at school — and it have many origin , include perhaps the toxic victorian cult of effortless brilliance . some people , such as Mike Emmerich in Manchester , blame it on our early industrialisation , and there be still a linger bad idea that a man ' s job have to involve physical effort but not use the brain . it be deeply embed in our culture . indeed , I sometimes think we need to bribe J . k . rowle to rewrite " Harry Potter " with Ron as the diligent swot and Hermione as the loyal pal . of course , it be not J . k . rowle ' s fault — she be a great hero . that unhelpful framing of boy as undiligent goofball be in a billion aspect of our culture , from ad to film to book , and it be not at all helpful . there be two thing member have often say in these debate over the eight year I have be here . the willingness to engage in this debate have massively increase over that time . some people say that the performance of boy in the education system be pretty inseparable from the performance of the system as a whole give that they make up half of all people . that be broadly right , and a rise tide lift all boat . on the other hand , there be good case for do thing specifically to try and improve the attainment of boy in education — both those thing be simultaneously true . first , we can see the difference that structural reform make if we compare different bit of the UK . I will not relitigate old argument , but for lot of different reason , the Labour Government in Wales decide not to do the structural reform that happen in England over the Blair period and our period in government . they do not do academy , accountability measure or the knowledge - intensive curriculum . the result be startling . a report by the Institute for Fiscal Studies call , " major challenge for education in Wales " point out that — amazingly — disadvantaged child in England be now do well on PISA than average child in Wales . there be a huge gap . from 2009 to 2022 , England go from 21st to seventh in the PISA league table on math , while Wales go from 29th to 27th . on science , England go from 11th to ninth , while Wales go down from 21st to 29th . there be a big loom gap between England and Wales . what do that mean for girl and boy ? on PISA , for both England and Wales , we see that boy do well than girl on math and science , but boy do bad than girl on read . that gap between England and Wales be now so big that on reading , boy in England do well than girl in Wales , and on math and science , girl in England do well than boy in Wales , so the absolute level matter . we must remember that while we have talk a lot in the debate about relativity , ultimately , it be the absolute performance that we really care about . we want to raise both level , particularly give that we be in a global economy . secondly , I turn to what we will do specifically to try to improve the performance of boy , and I will give a few relevant example . it have already be mention that read for pleasure be down most sharply among boy . that be one reason why we will continue to press for action not just to get phone out of our school , but more widely , as the Liberal Democrat spokesperson the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) say , to tackle the public health and educational problem be cause by the wide shift to a smartphone - base childhood , include on issue such as the age of consent for social medium . I encourage Ministers to fight the good fight on all that stuff . we know that boy be much more likely to end up in trouble or in fight at school . I remember that be the bad single aspect of when I be at secondary school . a few member have mention exclusion . I be always a bit wary of that — that be the symptom rather than the cause . get behaviour and discipline right be crucial for boy , who be often the victim of violence and fight . I will not relitigate all this stuff , but we have a school Bill that do not have anything to say on discipline . the Government reject our amendment to add provision on behaviour . they have abolish the behaviour hub , which be work . it go from one third of the school that go through the hub be rate good or outstanding to two third of those school , yet the hub have be axe . on forthcoming policy , as the hon . Member welcome , boy have 71 % of all ehcp . we know the Government have say they be look at end ehcp outside of special school — that is , about 60 % of ehcp or over 300 , 000 child . we be not at all against reform of special need provision . the Health Minister have say that the Government want to see a small proportion of pupil in special school , too . give these issue be now be debate in the public domain , as minister think about reform , they will need to move fast — as I be sure they will want to — to answer the big question about the idea they have put out that in some case be cause parent worry . for example , how will the parent of these boy — and they be mainly boy — know that their child will get what they need if they do not have an ehcp ? be there not a tension between want few pupil in special school and end ehcp outside they ? what do the Minister mean when she say that effective support will not be remove ? what do " effective " mean ? these be all question that I be sure the Minister be think about . they be crucial for boy ; they be crucial for everyone , to be honest . I totally understand why Ministers be look at this . accord to the IFS , we increase funding by nearly 60 % , or £ 4 billion in real term , between 2015 - 16 and 2024 - 25 — that be a fast rate of increase . but of course , it be vital that we get the right answer and certainty for parent as soon as possible . I will end with a couple of question to the Minister . in opposition , the Prime Minister say that he want to improve employability — we have talk about young man who be neets — and say , " we will reinstate two week of compulsory work experience " . how many school be deliver that now ? what be the Government ' s target to be deliver and by when ? when will school be see the £ 85 million that be promise in the labour manifesto to fund that ? likewise , in opposition last year , the Government announce plan to help school develop young male mentor and to teach pupil how to question the material they see on social medium , particularly from people such as Andrew Tate . this be a rare example of total agreement between both side of the House . we completely agree that we need to push back against terrible role model for boy — they be total , total , total loser teach boy totally terrible idea . we hope there will be an opportunity to prosecute some of those people , too . what have happen to the pledge to get mentor in place ? let I pick up on something that the Chair of the Select Committee , the hon . member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , say in her excellent speech . she talk about the gender pay gap . I think this be interesting and it need careful analysis . for 18 to 29 - year - old , the gender pay gap now do not exist . it be actually negative for the young of that group and it appear to get big with age , but it be actually not a gender pay gap per se — it be a motherhood pay gap . I commend the work of Ruxandra Teslo . I be sure the Chair of the Select Committee be very familiar with it . she show that the later woman delay have child , the high their income and , unfortunately , the few child they get to have . I think I be in agreement with Department for Education Ministers in think that that be unacceptable and must be change . on that rare note of terrify consensus , let I draw my remark to a close by once again congratulate the hon . member for Bishop Auckland , who be quite right to bring this debate to the House . he give an excellent speech . I be strike by the way the debate on this issue have change even in the time I have be here . it be more clearly identify as a problem and by synthesise the argument in such an excellent way today , he have help to propel the argument forward . I add my congratulation to my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) on secure this very thoughtful and important debate . he make a powerful opening speech . I add my welcome to Cian and Alex , who be on work experience here in Parliament , support my hon . friend . he touch on a really pressing and important issue . we know that on average boy have low attainment than girl . as a government , we be determined to understand and address the driver behind that . all child should have the opportunity to achieve and thrive in their education , no matter who they be or where they be from . that be the drive mission of our opportunity mission . we be determined to break the unfair link between background and success . we be determined to drive educational excellence across the country for every child and young person . to do that , many of the issue that have be highlight need to be address . the current school system have many strength but , as set out starkly by my hon . friend the Member for Croydon East ( Natasha Irons ) and my hon . friend the Member for Cannock Chase ( Josh Newbury ) , we know it be not work well enough for all child . too many be fall behind and face barrier which hold they back from the opportunity and life chance they deserve . as in previous year , girl continue to do well than boy across all headline measure . although the gap have narrow compare with 2018 - 19 , there be clearly still more to do . the Department be commit to address that challenge . the school White Paper , which will be publish in the autumn , will set out our vision for a school system that drive educational excellence for every child . we be work alongside Sir Hamid Patel and Estelle Morris , who be gather view from thousand of child , parent , teacher and leader across the year to build a solid evidence base on the barrier to attainment for white working - class child , and to look at what solution there be to drive up standard for they . the inquiry be look to get under the bonnet of what factor be drive underperformance , what good practice can support they and what policy can well be apply to address the challenge . that work will contribute to the regional improvement in standard and excellence team — the rise team — and to our focus , as a Department , on raise attainment across the board . high and rise standard be the key to strengthen outcome and close attainment gap , help every child and young person to achieve and thrive . we want our reform to the school system deliver through excellent teaching and leadership , a high - quality curriculum , strong accountability , and an inclusive system which remove the barrier to learn that be hold far too many child back . I mention the excellent teaching we need , because the quality of teaching be the single most important in - school factor to improve outcome for child , especially those from disadvantaged background . that be why we be commit to recruit an additional 6 , 500 new expert teacher in secondary school , special school and further education college . we have make strong initial progress to deliver the key pledge , and our investment be start to deliver . up to 2024 - 25 , the workforce have grow by 2 , 346 full - time equivalent in secondary and special school . those be the school that need these teacher the most . I agree that it be important that the teaching profession reflect the community that it serve , and that child see themselves reflect in the role model around they . male teacher and educator can clearly play an important role in teaching , guide and lead the boy in our classroom . however , as the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) , and my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) rightly say , man be under - represent across the teaching workforce — over three quarter be female . although that be broadly in line with international trend and have be stable in England for some time , we need to do well . we want to see representation increase across all phase , and we be work to recruit and retain high - quality teacher in our classroom . we know that our recruitment campaign be reach diverse audience , and they widely feature male teacher . I acknowledge the challenge that be so eloquently set out by my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland . I agree that every child and young person should have the opportunity to achieve and thrive in education , regardless of their background . that be why we have also commission an independent panel of expert to review the exist national curriculum and assessment system . we want to ensure an excellent foundation in the core subject of reading , writing and math , and a rich , broad and inclusive curriculum that ready young people for life and work . we want a curriculum that reflect our whole society , ensure that child feel inspire and engage in it . my hon . friend the Member for North Warwickshire and Bedworth ( Rachel Taylor ) mention the value of time and support for young people to take part in sport . I very much agree . the curriculum and assessment review be consider specifically how to remove the exist block to progress to ensure good outcome for child and young people from socioeconomically disadvantaged background or who be otherwise vulnerable . the review publish its interim finding early this year . it highlight the gap in attainment and commit to address the challenge and barrier hold child back from the opportunity and life chance that they deserve . we look forward to receive the final recommendation in the autumn . as my hon . friend the Members for Heywood and Middleton North ( Mrs Blundell ) and for Suffolk Coastal ( Jenny Riddell - Carpenter ) set out powerfully , school disengagement and exclusion be incredibly damaging and a significant concern . every child deserve to learn in a safe and calm classroom , and we will always help our hard - work teacher to make that happen . school should take proportionate and measure step to create calm and supportive classroom . that be how to break down the barrier to opportunity and improve the life chance for all pupil . however , we know that poor behaviour can be root in much wide issue . the Government be develop an ambitious strategy to reduce child poverty , lead by a taskforce co - chair by the Education Secretary , so that we can break down the barrier to opportunity . all school be require by law to have a behaviour policy with effective strategy to encourage good behaviour . school leader must develop and implement a policy that have the support of the school and align with its culture , but I acknowledge the challenge that colleague have outline . education have a crucial role to play in help child and young people to develop empathy , boundary and respect for difference . through compulsory relationship education , all pupil should learn how to form positive and respectful relationship . we be review the relationship , sex and health education guidance to ensure that it empower school to tackle harmful behaviour , start in the early year of primary school . it will be clear that teacher must facilitate conversation with student on what positive masculinity and femininity mean in today ' s world , and on develop positive role model to build student ' self - esteem and sense of purpose . we will publish the revised RSHE guidance , which will include the importance of build communication skill , express and understand boundary , handle disappointment and pay attention to the need and preference of other . it will explore communication and ethic within relationship and support young people to think about what healthy relationship involve , beyond consent , include kindness , attention and care . it will consider the real - life complexity of relationship , include the significance of power , vulnerability and manage difficult emotion that can relate to relationship , such as disappointment and anger , and the influence of online misogynistic content and the impact of pornography on sexual behaviour , include what some people perceive as normal . all those issue will be address , and we want to empower school to tackle these very important issue with young people . close to 1 million 16 to 24 - year - old be not in education , employment or training . that number be too high , and the consequence be serious . my hon . friend the Members for Stafford ( Leigh Ingham ) and for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) highlight the cost of this not only to the individual themselves , but to our society . alongside the development of the youth guarantee , we be require local authority to ensure that every young person receive a suitable offer of a place in post - 16 education or training . we need to address the underlying risk factor for become neet , and that include support young people ' s mental health , with access to specialist mental health professional in every school and mental health support team in every college . young people need effective transition as well between school , further education and employment to prevent those moment of disengagement . we will continue to work to ensure that young people can unlock the opportunity that we know will set they up for life . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland again for raise these really important matter of concern , and I thank all those who have contribute to this thoughtful debate . I readily acknowledge that there be a number of challenge to boy ' attainment and engagement . there be much more we can do , and that be why the Government be focus on take action to ensure that every child and young person believe that success belong to they . I will keep this brief , because I be conscious that the next debate be also of great importance . I thank everybody who have attend and contribute to the debate ; they be excellent contribution . I be grateful for the cross - party support on this issue . I look forward to read the Government ' s White Paper on school standard , to be publish in the autumn , and engage with they on that . I will write to the Minister on how we can do more to embed social and emotional learning in early year setting . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the attainment and engagement of boy in education . child ' s Health I beg to move , that this House have consider child ' s health . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant this incredibly important debate . this government ' s ambition be to raise the healthy generation of child ever . there be so much about improve child health in the 10 - year plan , " fit for the Future " . I be genuinely quite excited about the 10 - year plan — maybe I be sad , but that be the sort of thing that excite I . I have be a gp for 30 year , and I have a special interest in child health and child mental health . I will talk briefly about prevention , mental health and then paediatric service . first , obesity be a massive problem in young people . at the age of five , 10 % of child be obese . by the age of 11 , 22 % be obese — and that do not count the child who be overweight . this start in pregnancy . we must ensure that pregnant woman have really healthy diet , because that reduce obesity . when a baby be bear , parent need to be aware that follow - on milk and " hungry baby " milk be basically just milk pack full of sugar . that will not do the child any good . if they be hungry , they need to change their diet and possibly go on to solid . baby snack often look healthy — they might have a nice , healthy carrot on they — but when we look at what be in they , they be pack full of sugar as well . parent need to have a clear idea of what be healthy , so that they can choose the healthy food for their child . the Government be go to bring in a watershed for junk food advertising — it be go to be in October , but it be now promise for January 2026 . that be incredibly important , because young people be very sensitive to advertising . a recent report in the BMJ find more than 90 different sponsorship deal in football and six other sport with food that be high in fat , salt and sugar . we need to look at that issue , because young people look up to sport star and be very influenceable . they have to advertise healthy food , because otherwise we will continue to have an obesity epidemic . in the 10 - year plan I be delighted to see measure in the national planning policy framework about fast - food outlet near school . we must stop those . they be cynically place close to school , and they be particularly prevalent in more deprive area . a couple of other thing that I be delighted about include free school meal for child from household in receipt of universal credit . free school meal have an obvious relationship to obesity and tend to bring it down . I be also delighted that in the autumn we will look at school food standard , and hopefully reduce the amount of process meat that seem to be in a lot of school food . the other part of the 10 - year plan that excite I be the mandatory health food sale with supermarket . that have be evidence to reduce obesity , so I be delighted about that . let I move on quickly to physical exercise — I be keen for other member to get the opportunity to talk — because 50 % of child be not sufficiently active , and two - third can not swim 25 metre . do my hon . friend agree that the previous Government ' s lack of investment in vital leisure facility , such as the swimming pool in Atherstone in my constituency , which be overdue for renovation , be cause many of these problem ? the lack of PE in school and the lack of safe place for child to play , be active and get involve in sport be cause some of the obesity problem . I totally agree — indeed , my hon . friend pre - empt some of my remark . another proposal in the 10 - year plan involve the investment , through Sports England , of £ 250 million into such opportunity for child . the Starlight Children ' s Foundation promote play and exercise , and I be a particular fan of adventure playground in urban area , which allow child to cut loose , particularly after school , expend energy , and have fun in a safe setting . I be also work with colleague on access to nature . it be incredibly important that every child have access to nature , so that they can explore nature and have that type of exercise . I also stress that 50 % of child have active travel — bike or walk — to get themselves to school . let we increase that ; let we try to get more child cycle and walk to school , as that will increase their fitness . dental care be also in the 10 - year plan . I be delighted to see that supervised brushing be already there , and also that fluoride varnish will be apply by people to prevent dental carie from occur . I will give a quick shout - out on asthma prevention , which be key and all about air quality . I know some young people who , since the ultra low emission zone scheme be introduce , have stop use their inhaler because pollution have go down . that be something we must emphasise . on air quality , will my hon . friend join I in pay tribute to the stop the Stink campaigner in Newcastle - under - Lyme , who fight so hard to clean the air around school such as St Mary ' s primary school on Silverdale Road ? their work help to make the lung of our young people that bit healthy . absolutely , and I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . he be right : clean air be one way to address our five most preventable health risk , and we must do more on that . will my hon . friend join I in call on the Government to adopt World Health Organisation level for particulate matter 2 . 5 ? I be afraid that be not my special area , but it sound like a good idea and I thank my hon . friend . because we can not see clean air , we do not realise what it be do , but people genuinely need their inhaler less , and particularly for young people with asthma that be incredibly important . I want to talk quickly about early year support . in Gloucestershire , an organisation call Home - Start involve volunteer go into the home of woman who have just give birth to support they . interestingly , woman who have have that support often go on to be volunteer . it be a fantastic organisation . this week I be delighted that the successor to sure Start , Best start family hub , be come back . sure Start be one of the most glorious thing that the Blair Government do , and it affect the health of young people enormously . I be pleased that childcare be get much more funding . furthermore , as set out in the 10 - year plan , Healthy Start will be restart in 2026 - 27 , provide money to pregnant woman and child age one to four whose family be in financial difficulty , help those who be less well off . mental healthcare be in a bit of a crisis . some 25 % of young people have mental health issue . we spend only 10 % of NHS fund on mental health , but it contribute to over 20 % of morbidity . about a million people be on the child and adolescent mental health service waiting list at the moment , and I know that minister be do all that they can to bring that down . to prevent poor mental health , we need to look at exercise , as I have mention , and at music in school , which be prove to reduce rate of mental ill health . I be back the National Education Union campaign to get rid of SATs , which cause enormous tension and stress in young people . on treatment , I be delighted that we will have mental health support team in every school — I understand that 60 % will be in place by next April , and 100 % by the end of this Parliament . we will have 8 , 500 more mental health worker and a whole - school approach . I particularly endorse the mental health first aid training that have happen in some Stroud school , and I have also be look at the Young Futures hub . with the massive CAMHS waiting list — in my area , people sometimes have to wait for two year — and the sudden increase in neurodiversity , we need to look at scheme that use creative and social prescription to deal with those child while they be on the waiting list . give the right support , I reckon a lot of they will not need specialist psychiatric assessment . I be chair of the beyond pill all - party parliamentary group . be hon . member aware that one in eight 12 to 17 - year - old have be put on a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor antidepressant ? that be scandalous . this year , I host a roundtable at the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health . child be generally wait long than adult for care , which we must turn around . as I say , there be often long waiting list for mental healthcare . sadly , Harry , the son of my constituent , Louise Turner , have a sarcoma and die at the end of last year . she report that the nursing staff and doctor be fantastic , but there be a lack of facility , such that sometimes they would turn up for chemotherapy but there be no bed for Harry , so they have to go away and come back the next day . go forward , we must ensure that that do not happen . what be the solution ? we need to get paediatric care out of the hospital and into the community . we need to get hot paediatric — feverish kid — see in the community , potentially by paediatrician or well - train gps . furthermore , during GP training , which I have carry out for about 25 year , it be essential that every single doctor who become a gp have time in a paediatric assessment unit . the main feedback from the roundtable at the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health be that we must involve child in design paediatric service , otherwise they will not work . rise — order . to ensure everyone get to contribute , we will have to have a three - minute speaking limit . I call Sarah Hall . if we want to raise a generation of healthy , thriving child , we must stop treat child ' s health as an afterthought . this week , I launch a new survey ask constituent to feed into my work , and I thank everyone who have respond . the response have help to shape my contribution to this debate today , along with my work as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on inclusion and nurture in education . the focus of the survey be child , their education and wellbeing . I hear from parent , carer and guardian about their child ' s experience in school and in access health service ; about their child ' s mental health , and the anxiety and stress cause by an outdated education system ; and about barrier to access education because of their child ' s neurodiversity or disability . family tell I that there be long waiting list for CAMHS , and gap in speech and language therapy and school - base special educational need co - ordinator support . they tell I about narrow criterion that be limit health and care support , and how those criterion do not reflect their child ' s unique need , result in family feel lose in the system . the NHS be found on the promise that care would be there when we need it , no matter our income or postcode , but for too many child and family , that promise be fray . infant mortality remain stubbornly high . condition such as asthma , obesity and dental decay be send more child into hospital , and mental health need be rise , with long waiting list for specialist service . sadly , health inequality remain stubbornly persistent and be undeniably link to the unacceptable level of child poverty and deprivation . child ' s health outcome have be allow to decline for too long . we know that the child ' s health workforce be work incredibly hard , but over the last 14 year it have be underfunde and undervalue . child and young people be wait significantly long than adult for access to health service , with 21 . 5 % wait for more than 52 week , compare with 1 . 3 % of adult . those number represent a gap in provision . in my own integrate health board area of Cheshire and Merseyside , more than 11 , 000 child be wait for the care they need . some 44 % of child be wait between 18 and 52 week , and 25 % of child have be wait more than 52 week for treatment . the Royal College have give Ministers a road map , include shift care close to home to transform child ' s community service , introduce a dedicated waiting time target for child ' s service and establish a child ' s health investment standard . however , we can not talk about child ' s health in isolation from poverty . we know that poverty increase the risk of poor mental and physical health , miss developmental milestone and poor outcome in school . without real investment in family income , housing and food security , we be simply paper over the crack . if we be serious about give every child a fair start , tackle poverty must be at the front and centre . that be why I be pleased to hear that Warrington will benefit from the Government ' s new plan to fund the new family hub model in our town . it be one thing to fund service , but it be another to ensure that they truly reach and uplift the child who need they the most . I thank the hon . member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) for bring such an important debate . I feel strongly about this matter , have train as a dietician , and I understand the implication that a poor diet in early life can have for a child ' s future . from health outcome to educational outcome , poor nutrition have a serious , detrimental and long - term effect . the hon . Member mention many other health condition , but I will talk just about diet . we often assume that parent understand what constitute a healthy diet for their child , but sadly that assumption be often false . there be so many compete message in this space . accord to the British Nutrition Foundation , nearly one third of parent say that they be uncertain about how much their child should eat . More than a third admit that they regularly make their child finish everything on their plate , regardless of hunger or nutritional need . these be not bad parent ; they be well - mean family try their good in an environment that fail to equip they with the knowledge they need and that often make healthy choice less accessible . even when parent have some nutritional awareness , that knowledge do not always translate into healthy practice . research show that inconsistent portioning and irregular parental eating habit can contribute to poor outcome , even among family with high nutritional literacy . in short , good intention be be undermine by a lack of clear , practical guidance . that be not a new problem , but it be grow with time . as we have hear , across the UK 10 % of child age four to five be overweight or obese ; by the age of 10 to 11 , that figure rise to 22 % . the covid pandemic deepen the crisis . during lockdown , many family see a sharp rise in unhealthy snacking and reduce access to fresh , nutritious food . in home where both time and money be tight , convenience often win out over balance . the cost of inaction be already visible , and it be vast . obesity - relate condition cost the NHS more than £ 6 billion a year , and the wide cost to society stand at around £ 27 billion annually . without meaningful intervention , that figure be project to rise by £ 50 billion by 2050 . meaningful intervention must include access to nhs dentist . a child with a mouth full of rotten tooth can not enjoy an apple or crunch on a carrot as a healthy snack . dental health be really important to a healthy diet . when we talk about child ' s health , we often think about the start of life — safe birth , vaccination and early year support — but we also need to talk about those child whose life will be short , those with life - limit and life - threaten condition . across the country , family care for a seriously ill child face unimaginable challenge , yet too often the support they need simply be not there , especially at the end of life and especially at home . in my constituency , we be incredibly fortunate to be serve by Shooting Star Children ' s Hospices , which support over 700 child and family across 14 borough and throughout Surrey . however , because the number of child need that care in each individual borough be small , those child can easily be overlook . that be the problem with a system build around commission at such a local level : when the number be low , the need get lose . that be why the ringfenced central funding — formerly the child ' s hospice grant — be so important . it support hospice such as Shooting Star to provide respite , symptom management , bereavement support and end - of - life care , and help give family choice at the hard possible time . I welcome the Government ' s decision to confirm £ 26 million for child ' s hospice in NHS England ' s funding for 2025 - 26 , alongside £ 100 million in capital investment across all hospice . the truth be that the sector remain under real strain . accord to together for short life , the lead voice for child ' s palliative care , just 19 % of icb formally commission 24 / 7 end - of - life care at home , and a third be still fail to meet even the basic national standard . I have three question for the Minister : will the Government commit to maintain and increase the child ' s hospice grant beyond 2025 - 26 ? will they launch a proper review of how child ' s palliative care be fund and plan , and will the Minister hold icb to great account to ensure they meet their legal duty to commission that care and report transparently on progress ? we be tell that the 10 - year NHS plan will bring care close to home , but right now , there be no mention of child ' s palliative care in that plan and no clarity on how those vital service will be fund . that have to change . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) for secure this important debate . one of the most frequent issue raise with I in Lowestoft be dentistry , and the situation be particularly acute for child . as we have hear , one in four five - year - old experience tooth decay , and preventable tooth decay remain one of the top reason for hospital admission . that be why the Government ' s roll - out of supervised tooth brush in our most deprive area and the inclusion of dental service in the roll - out of family hub be so welcome . child from deprived area be almost three time more likely to have dental decay than those from less deprive area . one in three child in my constituency of Lowestoft be in relative poverty — a poverty that be link to , and compound , health problem . as such , one of the most effective way to tackle poor child health be to reduce the number of child live in poverty — something that the last Labour Government do to great effect . that record will be build on by this Government ' s forthcoming child poverty strategy , which I hope will set out clear and bold target , alongside a path to reach those target . as have be mention , one of the big health crisis face child today be mental health . some 85 % of child and young people ' s mental health service report that they be struggle to keep up with demand . I hope the Government will continue to look at the grow evidence that link access to social medium and addictive smartphone with child ' s poor mental health , but their commitment to roll out mental health support team to all school and college by 2029 - 30 be hugely welcome . I be glad that the 10 - year health plan that the Health Secretary set out a week ago begin an important shift towards prevention and early intervention , and I welcome the plan ' s aim to " end the obesity epidemic " . I remain concerned that the ban on advertise unhealthy food and drink will mean that brand can continue to advertise so long as they do not explicitly identify their unhealthy product , and I hope that the Government will consider how to deal with that issue . finally , I will speak to the physical punishment of child . it be simply unacceptable in 2025 that child have less protection from assault and battery than adult do , particularly when it have such poor health implication — for example , research from the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health have find that child who be physically punish be up to 2 . 3 time more likely to experience mental health problem . that be why 77 % of healthcare professional and 14 public health organisation want to see the law in this area change . follow the lead of over 60 country around the world , include Scotland and Wales , we must remove the reasonable punishment defence , which continue to allow child to be harm . I urge the Government to see this as a child ' s health issue and , in the interest of child ' s wellbee , use the legislative opportunity present by the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill — which be currently be consider in the other place — to end it . we know the problem face child ' s health , and we know the scale of those problem — there be more than enough evidence — so in the time I have I will focus on some of the solution . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to roll forward youth hub , to recruit 8 , 500 mental health worker and , through the plan for change , to introduce Best Starts , our revamp Sure Start centre . an excellent Institute for Fiscal Studies report show the effect of sure Start , and its finding should inform how we develop Best Starts . I do not want to spend a long time talk about how we reframe the architecture and the organisation that deliver child ' s health , but I do think that be not quite in the right place . service user fundamentally do not care about who deliver what service ; they just want the high quality service . my concern be that we have service concentrate at the local authority level for child ' s health , when they should not be place there . we know that the well - run service be typically health service , because they have structural advantage in term of datum and the experience of spend capital funding and get thing off the ground quickly . we also know that some of the experience of child ' s social care be not entirely as they should be . the attempt to unify child ' s health and child ' s social care within local authority with a director for child ' s service in an upper - tier local authority have have a mixed record , and it would be wise for we to think about whether child ' s social care — or , indeed , adult social care — ought be put at the local authority level , or whether there ought to be a different place to deliver it , perhaps at a national level and perhaps at a national health level . in a previous life before I be elect , I run mental health , domestic abuse and homelessness service , and I embed caseworker in local authority setting to support family with mental health issue , domestic abuse prevalence and substance misuse . I also deliver service as part of the last Government ' s community mental health framework — particularly personality disorder service . the embed of third sector organisation be definitely a positive . there be limit to what they can do , but they can do outstanding thing ; they can build strong relationship with people who often lack trust in statutory agency , and they can deliver bespoke support , often beside NHS or local authority support . I would therefore want a large role for our third sector . in closing , I want to talk about special educational need and disability . we all know that the system be break . we know that it be adversarial . we know that parent be at break point . we know that there be not enough space in specialist provision . we know , too , that ehcp take too long and the process be difficult . as a consequence , it can feel dehumanising . I look forward to the Government work collaboratively with family , put they at the heart of change to develop the good solution . I have a survey available to constituent in Bournemouth East , and I encourage they to complete it or to email I , because I need to hear from they in order to represent they to Government , so that we can get the good possible system . in London , 20 % of reception age child be overweight or obese , and that nearly double to 39 % of child in year 6 . the crisis of childhood obesity do not just pose future health risk ; rather , it be impact child right now . factor include a lack of after - school activity , deprivation and poverty , the constant bombardment of fast food advert and the concentration of fast food chain near school . however , for the sake of brevity , I will focus on the proximity of fast food outlet to school and the constant advertising campaign against child . in Ilford South , there be nearly 50 % more fast food chain than there be 15 year ago . despite plan restriction , applicant always find loophole to exploit . that be compound by the fact that healthy food be double the price of fast food and that the closure of youth centre mean there be limited place for kid to exercise . fast food outlet have become the cheap , most convenient and easy choice for kid to go after school . I welcome the new national planning policy framework , which empower local council with strong power to block fast food outlet from open near school , allow authority to prioritise child ' s health . the second insidious factor coerce these child into consume fast food be the relentless barrage of advertising . alarmingly , many advert be specifically design to target child . Bite back , a youth - lead movement challenge the food system , survey some of the UK ' s large company and report that 78 % of product specifically aim at child be class as unhealthy . for child from deprive area , the advertising campaign be even more severe , because junk food ad be six time more likely to appear in deprive area than wealthy area . these company be exploit child — especially those in poverty — for profit . Bite back put it just about right : fast - food advertising be " enticing , effective and everywhere " . childhood obesity be not simply the result of poor personal choice or bad parenting ; structural factor coerce child into make unhealthy choice . as a government , it be our duty to recognise the social and financial cost of allow this to continue , and we be show courage and make progress . by empower local council , ban advertising and deliver the NHS 10 - year plan , which centre prevention , we be lay the groundwork for last change . we may not reap the benefit tomorrow or next year , but in five or 10 year we will see child live long and healthy because of the choice we make today . today I want to speak about a group of young people who be too often overlook in our healthcare system : teenager and young people with cancer . every day in the UK , seven young people be tell the devastating word , " you have cancer . " that be not just a statistic ; it be a wake - up call for all of we . cancer remain the big disease - relate killer of young people in our country , yet their unique experience and their physical , psychological and social need be too often sideline . if we be serious about improve outcome for they , we need to act on three front . first , we need fast diagnosis . young people must be give clear , accessible information about the symptom of cancer , and our primary care system must be well equip to spot those symptom early . secondly , we need access to clinical trial . I welcome the conversation that representative of the Teenage Cancer Trust and I have only last week with the Minister for Public Health on this very issue . young people currently participate in trial at low rate than other group , so they miss out on cut - edge treatment that could save life . thirdly , we need to address mental health . More than half of young people with cancer experience poor mental health , and almost nine in 10 psychologist say that our current service can not meet demand . cancer do not just interrupt a young life but collide with it at a time of exam , discover new relationship , identity growth and development , and the least that we can do be make sure that our system do not fail young people . let we ensure that the next national cancer plan reflect this reality , and let we give all these young people the care and support that they deserve . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) for secure this debate . like many colleague in this House , I stand for election on a promise to help raise the healthy generation of child in our country ' s history — a bold ambition , but a worthy one . in order to get there , we need to look beyond the doctor ' s office or the dinner table . one of the most powerful and often overlook tool that we have be physical activity — sport and play , and the chance to be outside . when sport and play be a part of a child ' s daily life , they become a training ground not just for the body , but for life . in Stafford and across our village , I have see brilliant teacher and community worker help child to build the skill and confidence they need to stay engaged . one young constituent , Tane , speak honestly to I about what he see among his peer : rise mental health struggle , too much time online and a worrying dip in resilience . he be right , because when child do not get the opportunity to move and play , it affect their wellbeing and education , but also their future . where else but in sport do child learn how to lose with grace , win with kindness and keep go when thing get tough ? but not all child have parent who can afford to pay for club , kit or transport . for many , school be the only place where they will ever get to be part of a team or even discover a sport they love . that be why PE should never be see as optional ; it must be a core part of every school week . I welcome the Government ' s renew support for school sport partnership , and their commitment to equality between girl and boy in sport , but we can go far . that mean multi - year funding settlement that school can count on , and a clear ambition that every child , no matter their background , have access to sport and play . in Stafford , I have be campaign for more inclusive public play place . family of disabled and neurodivergent child tell I they avoid park because they have nothing that their child can safely enjoy . campaigner have speak powerfully about this , as Christine McGuinness do only yesterday . play be not a luxury ; it be essential for child ' s development , their health and their joy . I be grateful to my constituency neighbour for give way . for every Christine in Stafford , there be a Christine in Newcastle - under - Lyme too , and one unite point that my hon . friend and I will no doubt put to our colleague at Staffordshire county council be for they to play their part , and to play their part fast . I be already on record as criticise Staffordshire county council today , so I will hold off in this debate — although it could be well at everything . my commitment to play be why I co - sponsor the amendment to the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) , that seek to provide in law for sufficient play opportunity , especially inclusive play opportunity . I call on the Government to invest in potential , and to give every child the opportunity to grow up healthy , confident and , importantly , resilient — ready not just for school , but for life . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I would like to begin by pay tribute to a wonderful charity base in Mid Sussex call Group B Strep Support . ever since its founder , Jane , lose her own baby , Theo , 30 year ago , Jane and the team have be campaign for well outcome for pregnant woman who contract group b strep , because the impact on their baby can be profound ; it be the most common cause of life - threaten infection for newborn baby . I open by ask the Minister whether she will meet the team from Group B Strep Support so she can well understand the potential of well screening of pregnant mother . as a mother myself , I do not take for grant the health of my child . all of we who be parent know that the health of our child can turn on a sixpence . we also know that the system that surround child and family and keep child healthy have be allow to crumble . as hon . member have say , we be in the middle of a child ' s health crisis in this country . this week , the Children ' s Commissioner produce a damn report on the health of child across the country . the review tell we that child in England be face " dickensian level " of poverty , and be go without basic need like heating , a place to wash , somewhere to eat breakfast or safe transport to school . hon . member use the word " unacceptable " a lot in this place and it may be overuse , but in this case it be very true . we should be ashamed that child be face this reality in 2025 . our young people , who should expect to grow up to be part of a prosperous , happy and successful nation in the come year , be be let down . under the Conservatives , thing get bad and bad . on their watch , in the period from 2022 to 2024 alone , the number of child wait for over 52 week for an appointment increase by 60 % for elective paediatric service and by 94 % for community health service . however , this situation be not inevitable . the UK have world - lead researcher , passionate healthcare worker and a proud tradition of protect public health . Britain ' s child should be among the healthy in the world . we be a wealthy country with a welfare state and universal healthcare . however , we lag behind our peer . one in 11 child live with asthma , and our country have one of the high emergency admission rate for school - age asthma in Europe ; it be avoidable , yet it be still happen . the number of child live with life - limit condition have rise by 250 % in less than two decade . some 2 . 5 million child in England be live with obesity , as other hon . member have mention this afternoon , and over 1 million of they already have health complication . almost one in five child now struggle with their mental health , which be a 50 % increase in just five year . however , child be wait long than ever to be see . since 2020 , paediatric waiting list have grow by over 166 , 000 child , but the number of consultant have barely budge , with over 50 , 000 child now wait for more than a year to be see . the Conservatives let those problem pile up ; now the Labour Government can not afford inaction . the Liberal Democrats believe that every child deserve the good start in life , no matter their background , postcode or parent ' income . we also think that it benefit we all to have happy and healthy child grow up across the country . we would start by fix the NHS from top to bottom , which mean ensure that everyone can see a gp within seven day , or 24 hour if it be urgent . I welcome the announcement in the NHS 10 - year plan that same - day appointment will become available where necessary . my colleague and I will push the Government to ensure that that pledge become a reality . fix the NHS also mean end the scandal of child turn up to hospital with a mouth full of rot tooth because there be no dentistry nearby . it mean rebuild the primary care and community service that have be starve of fund for over a decade . I know from conversation with my constituent in Mid Sussex that those problem be very real , and with they happen in what be a relatively well - off part of the country , it be clear that they be systemic . however , it be not just about treat illness ; we have to be determined to prevent it . that be why we would reverse the conservative cut to public health and invest in programme that get child move , eat well and thriving . we would tackle the poverty that drive so many health issue by end the cruel two - child limit and reverse the benefit cap . we would expand free school meal to all child in poverty and work towards universal free meal in primary school . we be glad to see the Government listen to liberal Democrat call for an expansion of free school meal , and be campaign for that to go even far , because no child should go hungry at school — ever . when it come to mental health , we would transform the system from the ground up . that mean have mental health hub for young people in every community , regular check - up at key point in life , a dedicated mental health professional in every school and a proper cross - government strategy to understand and tackle the root cause , from bereavement to bullying and social medium pressure . child ' s mental health be not just a health issue ; it be an education issue , a family issue and a justice issue . it need more than one Department and more than one Minister . my liberal Democrat colleague have lead the fight for early intervention , for holistic support and for real accountability . we have champion idea such as a register of bereaved child , because how can we help if we do not even know who need support ? I ask the Minister to therefore commit to implement such a register . we face a real challenge , but we have the idea , the evidence and the plan . now someone have to get on and deliver the change that child across the UK so desperately need , so I urge the Government to take action . let we build a country where no child be leave behind and where every child and parent have , at the very least , the opportunity to be healthy and to look to the future with confidence . I call the shadow Minister . before I start , I should declare my interest as a consultant paediatrician and a member of the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health , which the hon . member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) mention early . I congratulate he on secure this important debate . get the right start in life be one of the most important factor in adult health and wellbeing . we must ensure that the NHS be provide the good treatment and preventive care available for child , while prioritise safety and convenience for patient and cost - effectiveness for taxpayer . I have see significant improvement in paediatric care in my career . we must look broadly at the social and environmental factor that affect child ' s health and ask what more we can do to help protect and prevent illness in child . prevention be well than cure , which be one of the Government ' s three shift , with which I agree and on which I wish to focus today . often child bring to hospital to see consultant paediatrician have condition that have be cause , or far complicated , by social and environmental factor . these be thing that medic can not treat on their own , and , as every professional know , we must work with parent , family and child to achieve the very good outcome . one very clear example be the childhood obesity crisis , which many right hon . and hon . member have mention already this afternoon . research show that 36 % of child in year 6 — these be 10 and 11 - year - old — be now overweight or obese . I have see some extreme case in my practice — for example , a nine - year - old who weigh over 80 kg — of young patient who have suffer serious illness because of their weight . these be the tip of the iceberg , but they be undoubtedly part of a much broad shift . we know what cause obesity : lack of exercise and a diet too high in calorie . but this be more complicated than that . there be complex problem with root in broad issue such as poverty and family work pattern . the Government can not determine what each child eat , but there be thing that they can and should do to help support parent and their child . what be the Minister do to encourage exercise , participation in sport and active travel to school ? what be she do to improve the quality and availability of food for parent and family ? what be she do to improve the quality of school food , to build nutrition education into the curriculum and to help child learn about manage their own health and how to cook healthy food ? I know the 10 - year plan include reference to the reformulation of some product , but there be a risk that manufacturer encourage to remove sugar from product will simply replace it with sweetener and other chemical . what be the Minister do to ensure that they do not solve one problem and then walk unwittingly into another ? the hon . member for Lowestoft ( Jess Asato ) mention tooth brushing . we often hear that tooth extraction be the lead cause of hospital admission among young child . can the Minister provide detail on the step that she be take to improve youth dental outcome , such as broaden access to nhs dentist , pursue fluoridisation scheme and encourage the use of fluoride varnish ? parent have a responsibility here too . accord to the chief dental officer , who I speak to the other day , child who brush their tooth twice a day with a fluoride toothpaste , reduce the amount of high - sugar drink they consume and reduce the sugar in their diet can significantly reduce the risk of need filling and have dental decay . another area raise today be mental health . young people face mental health pressure from home and school worry , friendship concern and many other factor . in particular , we know that the covid lockdown have a serious impact on child ' s development and socialisation . we also know that social medium be cause increase harm to child — whether by contribute to anxiety about body image or personal achievement , or by expose child to harmful material and idea . the previous Government ' s Online Safety Act 2023 be a welcome step in address some of these issue , but the Government reject a conservative amendment to the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill to help reduce the use of phone in school . what more do the Minister plan to do to encourage child away from their screen and back towards a healthy existence with their friend and family ? I also want to discuss neglect . a total of 25 , 350 child be currently on a child protection plan for reason of neglect — a marked increase from 20 , 970 in 2014 . organisation such as the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to child have highlight the fact that number be typically underestimate in neglect case , but we should not underestimate the harm cause to health and development by neglect . what step be the Department and the Government in general taking to get a more accurate picture of neglect and to intervene on behalf of the child who be suffer ? one area of improvement be the balance of acute and community care , and , again , the Government have talk about this in their three shift . we know the Government be keen to move acute care into the community , but do the Minister agree that we should ensure that core community care be available more widely and more quickly in the community first before give they extra work to do ? too often in my practice I see child with paediatric problem who have be refer to hospital because of long wait and capacity problem in the community . what step be the Minister take to ensure that there be enough supply in the community sector to deal with the problem that child face ? in summary , child ' s health be a large and complex policy area . we know that we can make good progress when we treat these complex condition with new research and novel treatment . we know that most child will get well — in fact , one reason that I enjoy paediatric be that almost all the patient get well , because they be robust , resilient and great fun . we must help parent do thing that help protect child ' s health today and prepare those child to manage their own health tomorrow . I now call the Minister , who have up to 5 pm , although we do need a few minute at the end for the lead Member to wind up . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) on secure this debate . he be a tireless advocate for child across the country . I also pay tribute to his campaigning on social prescribing before he come to this place , because it be now a key part of our 10 - year plan for health . this issue be dear to my heart . one of the reason I stand for Parliament be that nearly a quarter of the kid in Skelmersdale , the big town in my constituency , live in poverty . as many colleague have point out , the state of child ' s health be a national scandal . as my hon . friend the Member for Stroud say , and as be refer to by the shadow Minister , this be a complex issue that straddle a variety of area . it be about active travel — and I be delighted that the Minister responsible for active travel , my hon . friend the Member for Wakefield and Rothwell ( Simon Lightwood ) , be on the Front Bench with I today — as well as air pollution and access to green space . my hon . friend the Member for Warrington South ( Sarah Hall ) highlight link between child ' s health , education and poverty . the hon . member for Mid Dunbartonshire ( Susan Murray ) make a contribution , and her expertise in diet and nutrition be really insightful . my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) speak about child with life - limit illness and end - of - life care and palliative care for child . my hon . friend the Member for Lowestoft ( Jess Asato ) talk about junk food advertising and dentistry . my hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) talk about family hub and Best Start , which we have launch this week , child ' s health and social care infrastructure and the third sector . I be really pleased that my hon . friend the Member for Ilford South ( Jas Athwal ) raise the issue of fast food outlet and junk food advertising , which I will cover in my response . my hon . friend the Member for Mansfield ( Steve Yemm ) talk about child , young people and cancer , and mention the Teenage Cancer Trust , which I meet recently along with my hon . friend , and I be delighted to do so . my hon . friend the Member for Stafford ( Leigh Ingham ) speak about how important play and sport be . we be work across Departments in our mission - lead Government to deliver the healthy generation ever . I can confirm that the NHS work with the Starlight charity to support the provision of play facility within hospital . over 2 million child be not active , and we need to change that . the Department of Health and Social Care , the Department for Education and the Department for Culture , Media and Sport be commit to invest in school sport and have confirm funding for next year ' s primary PE and sport premium . we be work across Government to develop new school sport partnership , and a national network model be announce by the Prime Minister in June . Lord Darzi ' s review set out in black and white how badly the previous Government let our child down . Tooth decay be the most common reason why child age five to nine be admit to hospital . referral for mental health service for child and young people have triple since 2016 , and waiting list for health service have grow fast for child than for adult . that must change , and it will change . this Government be commit to raise the healthy generation of child ever , and work to deliver this ambition have already begin . one of the big thing we can do to improve a child ' s life chance be safeguard their mental health . that be why by the end of this Parliament we will put a mental health support team in every school in England to break the vicious cycle of poor mental health , low attendance and bad behaviour . my right hon . friend the Education Secretary be roll out free breakfast club so that kid start school with hungry mind not hungry belly . to combat tooth decay , we have invest £ 11 million in supervise tooth brushing for three to five - year - old in our most deprived community . we be go far than ever before to tackle long waiting time for child through our elective reform plan . we have already deliver more than 4 million appointment , which be double what we promise in our manifesto . on child ' s social care and neglect , which the shadow Minister talk about , we be commit to rebalance the system towards early intervention . that be why the spending review commit to reform child ' s social care , include through a new £ 555 million transformation fund . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden for raise the important matter of funding for child ' s hospice , and I agree with she about their crucial role . as she say , we have commit £ 26 million for child ' s hospice this year , alongside £ 100 million of capital funding . future funding will be announce in due course . my hon . friend the Member for Stroud mention that it be crucial to involve young people in our conversation and policy development . I speak recently at a Children ' s Hospital Alliance event and a Children ' s Commissioner roundtable , where I listen directly to the view and voice of child and young people to make sure that they feed into the 10 - year health plan . our neighbourhood health offer build on that feedback , and we have re - establish the child and young people ' s cancer taskforce and insist that child and young people be around that table . last week we publish our 10 - year plan for health , which set out how we will fix our break nhs and make it fit for today ' s child and for future generation . we on the Government Benches will not rest until every work person receive the same kind of healthcare that the wealthy expect . the three shift that underpin our plan be the building block to ensure that child get the good start in life . the first be from treatment to prevention . we know that a baby ' s first 1 , 001 day , from conception to the age of two , set the foundation for later year , so we be establish Best Start family hub , build on the legacy of sure Start , which be a lifeline for work family under the last Labour Government . early this week we publish the " give every child the good start in life " strategy , and we will provide funding to every local authority in England for Best Start family hub , because no parent should have to face the challenge of parenthood alone . we be also take firm action on obesity , which many member raise today , and which affect nearly one in five child leave primary school . our action include restrict junk food advertising , ban the sale of high - caffeine energy drink , update school food standard , strengthen the soft drink industry levy , introduce healthy food sale report and , ultimately , use that reporting to set new sale target . the Government have regulation in place to set nutritional , compositional and labelling standard for commercial baby food , and we continue to challenge the industry to take further action , provide advice and guidance for parent . enforcement of nutrition legislation be the responsibility of local authority . good nutrition in the early year be vital . we recognise that there be opportunity to support parent and make the healthy choice easy by encourage business to improve baby food . I will set out our plan on that soon . we be also determined to fix the special educational need and disability system and restore the trust of parent by ensure that school have the tool to well identify and support child before issue escalate to crisis point . this autumn , the Government will bring forward a school White Paper , which will detail our approach to SEND reform , ensure join - up support for child and young people . on the shift from analogue to digital , go beyond the paper red book , the " my child " function on the NHS app will become the digital companion for parent to access their child ' s health information throughout their childhood . over time , parent will be able to record their child ' s habit and developmental milestone , and use artificial intelligence to access help and advice when need . on the third shift , from hospital to community , we will roll out neighbourhood health centre in every community , build care close to where child live , learn and play . that include multidisciplinary team make up of GPs , nurse , health visitor , paediatrician , mental health , social worker and the third sector , provide join - up preventive care and support child with complex and chronic need . before I wrap up , I want to say a few word on inequality . build a fair Britain be central to our 10 - year plan . as the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care say in Blackpool last month , we will review how health need be reflect in funding for general practice , with a sharp focus on money follow need . child poverty be a stain on our country . we be determined to fix this , which be why we be roll out free school meal to all child in household on universal credit . from April 2026 , we will be increase the value of Healthy Start payment by 10 % . I be also a member of the child poverty taskforce , and the strategy on this will be publish later this year . I again thank my hon . friend the Member for Stroud for raise this vital topic and all other colleague for speak today . when he launch our manifesto , my right hon . friend the Prime Minister promise to restore " the bond that reach through the generation and say — this country will be well for your child . " that be what we be do with our 10 - year plan . I look forward to work with my hon . friend and all other colleague to get this do . I will not keep hon . member long ; I know it be late on a Thursday and people want to get back to their constituency . I thank all hon . member , include the Minister and Opposition Members , for stay and give excellent speech . if we get child ' s health right , it will bring a whole lifetime of benefit . that be why child health be so important . it be about get they to do regular exercise , which will continue for life , and to have a decent diet , which will also continue for life , make they the healthy generation we have ever know , so I thank member and the Minister very much . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider child ' s health . disabled Bus Passes Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) it be a pleasure to stand here today and raise , once again , the issue of restriction on the use of disabled bus pass . the Minister will be well aware of this matter , which I have raise with he on a number of occasion , and I have already have the opportunity to discuss it with he directly , for which I be grateful . however , I want to use today ' s debate not only to underline the real and lasting impact that these restriction have on disabled people ' s life , but to make a clear case for why it be the Government ' s responsibility to address this inequality . currently , under the English national concessionary travel scheme , eligible disabled people be entitle to some limit free local bus travel . it be a policy rightly design to help those who , for physical or legal reason , be unable to drive . the scheme play a vital role in help disabled people to stay connected with healthcare , work , education , family , and the wide community and society . young people in post - 16 education or apprenticeship , include my son George at Linwood ' s post - 16 provision , be unable to learn to drive as easily because of their complex need , yet while their parent currently have to pay to get they to college in the morning , they can use their free bus pass to get home . that be completely counterintuitive and be restrict the choice of young people at a time when they should be expand their independence . do my hon . friend have any comment on that ? I thank my hon . friend for her intervention ; she speak extensively about an area in which I know she be a champion . I completely agree with she . if we be give people disabled bus pass , we be do that for a reason , and those reason often do not apply only from 9 . 30 be onwards . that bring I to the next part of my speech . from 11 pm to 9 . 30 be on weekday , the English national concessionary travel scheme entitlement become a postcode lottery and be dependent on whether a local authority or transport authority choose to extend the benefit and , crucially , whether it can afford to do so , from some already stretch local budget . Disability Action Yorkshire , a charity base in my constituency and one whose work extend across the wide region , bring this issue to my attention early this year , and indeed last year at a local panel event , where local people point out the barrier they face to participate in our society . service user rightly point out the absurd contradiction in provide a travel path for disabled individual that be design to improve accessibility , only to then restrict its use to peak hour . the absurdity lie in the obvious truth that disability do not appear only at peak time . there be approximately 870 , 000 disabled bus pass holder in England , represent about 10 % of all concessionary travel user . the Department for Transport have on several occasion point to the fact that 77 % of local authority offer some form of free travel before 9 . 30 , suggest that the issue be relative minor , but frame it in that way obscure the reality on the ground . in many area , include my constituency , free travel be still not permit until after 9 am , make travel to work , education or early medical appointment financially and logistically difficult for disabled people . in fact , research show that 35 % of transport authority offer unrestricted , 24 / 7 access for disabled passenger . the result be a postcode lottery , and the majority of disabled people remain constrain by an arbitrary time restriction that do not reflect the demand of their daily life . let we be clear : the time restriction may be more relevant for old pass holder , who make up 90 % of concessionary user and be in general less likely to be commute to work or education . but that simply do not apply to many disabled people , with disabled bus pass holder typically be of work age . we live in a country where disabled people continue to face unnecessary and unacceptable barrier , whether physical , financial or social . we must be honest that we be simply not do enough to break down those barrier . remove the weekday time restriction on disabled bus pass would be a straightforward , immediate and meaningful step in the right direction . end the restriction would do more than improve access to transport . it would promote great independence for disabled people . it would support health and wellbee by reduce social isolation and make it easy to attend early morning medical appointment , which be often difficult or costly to reach under the current rule . it would also contribute to environmental goal by encourage great use of public transport over less sustainable alternative . most importantly , by allow disabled people to travel freely , we enable full participation in community life , whether that be volunteer , social engagement , work or education . in do so , we would take a meaningful step toward great social inclusion and a more equal society for disabled people . I thank my hon . friend for secure this debate on such an important topic ; he be make an excellent speech . do he agree that this be of particular importance in rural area because bus service be sparse and travel distance be long ? I have be approach by campaigner from Mencap Herefordshire who have run an amazing campaign on this topic . do he agree that the postcode lottery between different authority mean that there be a great unfairness for disabled people and that the good way to deal with this be through national , not local , change ? I completely agree with my hon . friend ' s sentiment . my constituency be in north Yorkshire — a vast rural area where we have exactly the same challenge that she describe in her own patch . the impact of this restrictive rule be particularly clear when we listen to young disabled people themselves . in a recent conversation with Whizz Kidz , a charity that support young people with disability , it highlight the specific harm this restriction cause for young wheelchair user . the charity recently conduct a survey ask whether free 24 / 7 bus travel would make a difference . unsurprisingly , the overwhelming response be yes . young people say that all - day access to free bus travel would significantly boost their independence , help they build social connection and develop crucial life skill . as one individual put it : " we ' re normal young people who therefore can ' t afford taxi , can ' t fit in Ubers but still have social need . if you want we to be able to integrate and contribute economically , we need the opportunity to build social capital and skill . " while bus travel be by no mean perfect , it remain the most consistent and accessible option for many disabled people . it do not require pre - book and offer regular service and allow for great independence . in contrast , other mode of transport be much less accessible . one constituent share how they have miss train because pre - book assistance fail to show up , be unable to use underground or metro system , which be cite as a common issue , and struggle to find accessible taxi , especially outside major town and in rural area . that experience be not an exception ; it be a reflection of the systemic gap in our transport network , which fail to accommodate disabled passenger reliably and fairly . the Royal National Institute of Blind People have highlight that for those with sight loss , bus travel be often the only accessible option . pavement parking , dangerous e - scooter driving and inaccessible crossing all make transport on foot far too difficult . some 95 % of respondent to its recent research say that they use bus at least monthly . it be therefore clear that if we be to restrict concessionary access to bus , we must first ensure that alternative mode of transport be truly accessible and affordable — something that , as my constituent ' s experience make clear , be far from be the case today . at a time when disabled people face extra burden and cut from every angle , we must find way to support our disabled community . the current cost of living crisis have have a disproportionate impact on disabled people . they be more likely to face fuel poverty , skip meal and struggle with rise cost across the board . disabled household be also more likely to be among the poor in society , with around a third of adult in the low - income household live with a disability . Scope recently publish its " Disability Price Tag " report , which demonstrate that disabled household need on average an additional £ 1 , 095 a month to have the same standard of living as a non - disabled household . these be not luxury , but necessity for daily life . whether medical equipment , high energy bill or accessible transport , they be unavoidable cost . one of the crucial benefit of remove the 9 . 30 be restriction would be to significantly improve access to employment , education and training , much of which begin before 9 am . motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) many of those opportunity start before 9 am . disabled people can still board a bus early if they pay , but we have just establish that disabled people already face much high daily living cost . those on low or no income be therefore disproportionately affect by this decision and their opportunity impact . that financial barrier make travel during peak hour a burden that many can not afford , limit their opportunity before they have even begin the day . Bernie , a blind bus user live in one of the few area with 24 / 7 concessionary travel , describe that access as a lifeline . live rurally , he rely on bus from as early as 7 . 30 be to get to work , and say it would be near - impossible without free travel . there be unique challenge face by disabled people that many without that live experience find hard to understand . for example , as a blind person , Bernie feel at risk count money on the roadside . similarly , another respondent with vision and hearing loss say her condition worsen later in the day , make early travel essential . yet in her village , the first concessionary service do not arrive until after 10 am . those example highlight why disabled people need consistent , unrestricted access to transport , and why a postcode lottery simply do not work and be not fair . the previous Government ' s approach to support disabled people amount to a patchwork of short - term fix and empty promise . the current Government ' s rhetoric on personal independence payment — although that have change recently — and disability support continue to fall short . if the recent wave of dissent from Government Back Benchers over these issue be not evidence enough of the need for urgent change , I be not sure what be . the Government have make it clear that they want to encourage disabled people into work . the Minister here have a perfect opportunity to dismantle one of the many barrier they face . I urge he to do that . the solution here be not just achievable ; it be affordable . research by Whizz Kidz suggest that remove time restriction would cost £ 8 . 8 million , reflect only 1 % of the annual spend on concessionary travel across England . that do not even include companion pass . if we be serious about improve opportunity for disabled people — the Government have say repeatedly they be — then this be a logical , low - cost place to start . it be a matter of fairness and equality . I have be wait with bated breath to see if the hon . Gentleman would come on to companion bus pass . I thank he for the leadership he have show on this issue and for co - tabling — with I , the hon . member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) and for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) , and the inimitable hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , who sadly be on his way to Northern Ireland this evening — early - day motion 1638 specifically on companion bus pass for the disabled . this be where a disabled person can not use a bus alone . we have the strange situation where in two - third of authority his or her disabled bus pass be allow to cover a companion to go with they , but in one - third of local authority it be not . I can not think of anything more futile than give a free pass to somebody to use a bus service which they can not use without a companion for whom they have to pay . I thank the right hon . gentleman for that intervention . he speak very eloquently on a situation that I agree be entirely futile . we should not give people companion bus pass which be , to all intent and purpose , useless . that be a fair place to start . as part of this issue , we need to do more to ensure that people who require a bus companion have access to the service they deserve . I anticipate that the Minister be likely to inform I that this be a matter to discuss with local transport authority , which have discretionary power to offer free travel at peak time . yet we must confront the reality that local decision making alone be not deliver fairness for disabled bus user across the country . I commend East Sussex council , which have use bus service improvement plan fund to extend concessionary travel to disabled people throughout the day . similarly , the Greater Manchester Combined Authority have announce a pilot to offer round - the - clock free bus travel to old and disabled people . I hope that colleague across the country , but especially the Mayor of York and North Yorkshire will follow suit . let we be clear , however : that be a temporary solution . without national leadership and ringfence funding specifically for disabled travel concession , we can not expect consistent provision across the country . despite previous recommendation for local authority to fund discretionary change to the restriction through fund such as the BSIP , the reality be that many simply can not afford to . I thank my hon . friend for secure this debate , which be a real opportunity to discuss bsip . one problem with bsip be that they run for a short period . individual struggle to make decision about where to live , whether to purchase a car , or about invest in an alternative for mobility over a long time . they think , " what if the bus situation change in a year ? " the BSIP cover a short period , and people do not have stability . from an equality point of view , a permanent decision on that would be helpful . I thank my hon . friend for that excellent point . she have steal the next line from my speech , but I shall forgive she on this occasion . I wonder whether she be read over my shoulder . BSIP funding be allocate only on a year - by - year basis , offer no long - term security or reassurance for disabled people who be affect by these restriction . even where local authority be willing to fund all - day concession , the lack of guarantee , ringfenced support mean that provision be patchy at well . in East Sussex , only 1 % of BSIP fund be need to cover the reimbursement of offer full - time concessionary travel for disabled people — a modest figure with a significant impact . that show clearly that the issue be not necessarily one of affordability , but of political will and prioritisation . we can take York and North Yorkshire combine authority , the local transport authority for my constituency , as an example . of the £ 12 million allocate to the region , funding have be direct toward valuable but highly localise initiative : bus station upgrade and improvement in Skipton , Whitby , Selby and Malton ; bus stop improvement in Helmsley , Easingwold and Leyburn ; and discount family travel in York city centre . those be all worthwhile investment , but they offer no benefit to constituent who require access with a disabled bus pass , especially those live with disability , who remain exclude because of outdated restriction . I do not want a patchwork solution that fix the problem only in my area , but one that will apply across England and bring everyone forward . sadly , it be equally clear that where budget be stretch , discretionary travel arrangement be the first thing to be scale back to cut cost . recent datum from Local Government Association have highlight the £ 452 million gap in Government funding for the concessionary travel scheme . it be therefore not likely that local authority will be able to fund enhancement themselves when Government funding be already fall short of the require amount . Hampshire county council recently move in the wrong direction , in the light of funding shortfall and budget constraint , by remove their discretionary service , include free peak time travel for those with companion pass . that send a worrying message . we can not rely on local authority alone to deliver change . leadership must come from this place and central Government . the Government can not continue to wash their hand of responsibility by frame this as a matter solely for devolution and local transport authority . the simple truth be this : it be the Government who introduce time restriction under the english national concessionary travel scheme , and it be the Government who hold the power to remove those restriction . national problem require national solution . if we be serious about build a fair and more inclusive society , the Government must stop kick the can down the road and start act with the urgency and authority that this issue deserve . I urge the Minister to reflect not just on the policy , but on the people affect by it . this be not about politic ; it be about fairness , dignity and equality of access . the barrier face disabled people be already too high . let we not allow a bureaucratic time restriction to be one of they . end this arbitrary time would promote independence , reduce social isolation and help disabled people into work , education and healthcare . the power to change that lie with the Government . I urge the Minister and his colleague to act now : lift the restriction and help to build a transport system that truly work for everyone . I congratulate the hon . member for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Tom Gordon ) on secure the debate and provide the opportunity to discuss disabled bus pass , and I thank other member for their contribution . I appreciate the concern that the hon . member for Harrogate and Knaresborough have raise . the Government know the value of the english national concessionary travel scheme , or enct . we want everyone to have straightforward access to high - quality public transport and be commit to improve service so that they be more inclusive and enable disabled people to travel safely , confidently and with dignity . I know , however , that disabled people continue to face unacceptable barrier in their everyday use of public transport , and we be determined to address they . I be committed to work with the sector to drive forward these much - need improvement . regard the specific concern raise about concessionary bus travel , let I first remind Members of the statutory obligation of the enct . the scheme provide free bus travel to those with eligible disability and those of state pension age — currently 66 — between 9 . 30 am and 11 pm on weekday and all day on weekend and bank holiday . however , local authority in England have the power to offer concession in addition to their statutory obligation — for example , by extend the time of use . the hon . member for Harrogate and Knaresborough pre - empte I say the follow : department statistic report that 77 % of travel concession authority offer extension to the beginning of the statutory time period , allow passholder to travel before 9 . 30 be on weekday . local authority can also offer companion pass to disabled passenger as a discretionary enhancement — a power we have see take up by two third , or 66 % , of authority , from Durham to Devon . indeed , York and North Yorkshire combine authority go above and beyond the enct on time and companion pass . the Minister , I think , have concede a key point : he have admit that some duty be discretionary to council , and some be statutory . the point about companion bus pass for those disabled people who can not use a bus without a companion be , as early - day motion 1638 make abundantly clear , that inclusion of the free companion bus pass should be statutory specifically for those disabled people who can not use their bus pass without a companion . there be nothing discretionary about that ; they simply can not use the bus pass without the companion . therefore , it should be part of the same statutory element by which they get the free bus pass in the first place . I thank the right hon . member for his extensive intervention . every single local transport authority in the country have the ability to go above and beyond the enct . in fact , every single local transport authority under this Government have receive funding to support bus . unlike the previous Government , who offer a " Hunger Games " - style competition , we have do it by a fair formula . the Department conduct a review of the enct , in which many of the important issue discuss today concern scheme eligibility and travel time be consider . I will not prejudge the outcome of the review , but I want to reassure member that accessibility and affordability remain central in our commitment to improve bus service for those who rely on they most . as we be all aware , we face a particularly difficult fiscal climate and fiscal inheritance . the ENCTS be vital in support local bus travel , assist with access to essential local service and help those who use it to stay active and avoid isolation , and we must ensure that it remain financially sustainable . the enct cost around £ 700 million annually , and any change to the statutory obligation would therefore need to be carefully consider in term of the impact on financial sustainability . more widely , this Government be commit to improve bus service across the country . the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill , which we introduce in December , put the power over local bus service back in the hand of local leader right across England and be intend to ensure bus service reflect the need of the community that rely on they . it make sense for bus service to reflect local need , but whether someone have a disability and need to use a bus be not a locally determined thing . there should be fair access to these service wherever someone live in the country . currently we have a postcode lottery regard the ability to use bus pass 24 hour a day . the point of the debate be to ask that it be organise nationally , so that there be fair access and every disabled person ' s bus pass can be use at any time of day , and there be not some part of the country where it work and other where it do not . I recognise what the hon . Member be say , and I will go on to outline some of the other area where the Government be help . improve accessibility be central to our mission . the Bill will help we to deliver safe , more reliable and more accessible network . it include specific measure to make bus travel more accessible and inclusive , include through more consistent approach to the inclusive design of bus station and stop . the Bill will also require local authority to produce a bus network accessibility plan , assess the exist accessibility of bus network in their area , and identify action that they will take to improve they far . the voice of disabled people will be at the heart of these reform . we will develop bus stop guidance collaboratively with organisation that represent disabled people , and local authority will be require to consult disabled people and organisation represent they when make significant change to their bus network . in addition , the Government have commit to publish an integrate national transport strategy this year , which will set the long - term vision for transport in England . a key part of the strategy will be to create the condition for a transport system that work together to deliver for its user and that make it easy for people to get around . everyone should be able to access real - time information , and simplify , integrate ticketing , and we have be explore those theme as part of our policy development . will the Minister give way ? will the Minister give way ? I do not hear who call out first , but I will give way to the hon . member for Mid Sussex ( Alison Bennett ) . I thank the Minister for give way , and my hon . friend the Member for Mid Dorset and North Poole ( Vikki Slade ) for let I take the Floor . I be pleased that the Minister have outline the forthcoming integrate transport strategy . over 18 month ago , Wivelsfield railway station in my constituency be allocate funding to make both platform step - free . that still have not happen . we be still wait for an update , and I wonder whether the Minister could ask the Department to provide one . under the previous Government , up to 50 station be fund , with feasibility study under the Access for all programme . I do not know whether the hon . member ' s station be part of that , but I be happy to take up that subject outside the Chamber . we also know that these plan will be back up with funding . that be why the Budget allocate more than £ 1 billion to local bus service for 2025 - 26 , include £ 12 . 5 million for York and North Yorkshire combine authority . funding allocate to local authority to improve bus service can be use to fund discretionary enhancement to the enct , and we have reaffirm our commitment through the funding allocate as part of the spending review . I be very grateful to the Minister for give way again . I be incredibly bother by the issue of consistency . a disabled driver can use their blue badge at any time of the day , but somebody who be not able to drive be restrict to be able to use their bus pass only after 9 . 30 am . that seem to be a simple unfairness in the system for people who do not have the option to drive . we have an opportunity to make a tiny change that would make a massive difference . I reiterate that every single local transport authority in the country have the ability to go above and beyond — on that point , will the Minister give way ? I will not give way again to the hon . Lady . every single local transport authority in the country have the ability to go above and beyond the ENCTS statutory obligation . every single local transport authority have be give money to improve bus service , and that can be use to top - up the statutory provision . I reiterate that the Department have conduct a review of the enct , and many of the issue raise today be include in that review . I will not prejudge the outcome , but I say to hon . member once again that accessibility be central to it . I thank the Minister for give way . I hope he note that I be quite measure in my speech , and I genuinely believe that he want to put disabled people at the heart of the review . when the Department look at the impact on the financial and on spending , will it look at how if disabled people can get to hospital appointment , opportunity in education and out spend their money in our economy that might feed into fund the system ? as I mention early , under the bus service Bill , local authority will be task with produce a bus network accessibility plan — assess bus network in their area and identify action that they will need to take to improve access . through the bus grant , local transport authority can put in place mitigation to improve the accessibility , frequency and reliability of bus in their area . I thank hon . member for their contribution , particularly the hon . member for Harrogate and Knaresborough for take the time to raise this matter . I be sure we will have many more conversation about this and I applaud his persistence on the issue . I hope this response assure hon . member that this Government be commit to work with local leader and bus operator to help deliver well , more reliable and affordable bus service for passenger . question put and agree to . House adjourn .